t c' f V Dibner Library of the History of Science and Technology SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES Horizon because WW'
A Cvii Ajisi d-yfiA vuAyntAAxAfiL A-AAYu Lji-. y. v. . rA. i rAt$l A'
CcAs-r AAr: '7-AA -J-eJiZr e Ozept pf n'. yAcuzL Jylla cjyCA&At
tAfiAo ypu &Asu fi- lOlMAyuyAyA-% tyyQ yTjA-yyyAAAQ fil-AyC CtA3 UsAjl-- A TH ANA II KIRCHER Fuldenfis Buchonii Joc. Jesu Presbyteri; ARS B R M Digefta in X. Libros.
or go Admirable light and shadow in the world, and so a new nature, a new force to use, so. a variety of new and hidden Jftecims exhibition r, to various mortals The second edition is much louder than the first one. I send To Like its darkness vWl L %illJ roro 'iurniii yri epa5 so& his light, Pfal. jf M S T E L T A M I, At John Jansson in Waesberge, And Heires Eli2 Wey erstraet. In the year cIoloc lxxl QumEmlegio Sacr. Ctfar. Majefatis, Ord. Bok WeHfr. CHARLES SANGRIUS Vicar General of the Society of Jesus Opus} entitled Art Magna Lis Umbrae, P. AthanahiKircheri noflraSocietatis Of the priests, three of the Theologians of the Society recognized him, and proved that they were brought to light. We allow it to be ordered in print to those to whom it pertains. It will be seen. He gives Apple Ten Charles Sangrius, It is printed, if it will be seen %everendifl. T. zfAfag. Saint Talatius Afiojlolic. A. Sacratus Epicopus Comacl. Vicegerent A D. P. Athariafii Kircheri from the Society of Jesus, a book in which Art Vere Magna Lucis It is contained in the shadow, I returned it, and carefully examined it, as Pgverendifiim' of the Holy Father's Palace I would fill the of Jpofiolici Magijlri; And as regards the Catholic faith and good morals, to the common spirit, I was so far away, that anything worthy of censure, expunStion or correSlion I would have observed that I should rather confess nothing, but fume, false piety, doctrine, learning', I would not constantly recommend the futility of irageraii ydutbori: completely unknown from the nature of Thefauris, the first, prompfit, and discovered, so elegantly elaborated, ul with this doctrine of the bright fire, he tired, nifi qua, pirate at the feet of men God the Best Maximus Jabjecerit, w, and delightful dung experiments, and in all Nature Great Art becomes Light and shadow, to demonize. The harvest of this kind, and the profits from the book Vulgatione, ira arara emanatura exiftimo. December Jo. Babt. Rinalducius j. U. D. Pifaurenfis Most Reverend Father here P. Athanafii Kircheri from the Society of Jesus, and the title of Artis Magnae, and Juthoris in tra- and, as usual, with rare arguments, his genius will be reborn with happiness. So the light and the shadow are hidden full in uniVerfalSiatura effel spreads to human birds, so that they can exfiltrate the shadow at the end of the south, which. Denfis hurled hither and thither into the darkness, Or the first trials of art fled; I owe it to him that I was trained Nature; and those who buy the secrets of things will have to have a docile education. Why, be PeVerendifiima P. T. , by whose authority I censured him, may be seen; it shall be given with dignity to the public, and not less with pleasure, for the benefit of the readers in the light the Name will be protected, apples December Melchior Inchofer S. C. XG Mazarini Sac. Pal. Apoft. Magift. Ord. Prsed, LR. ce: c osRDoJtyvrvs DJoabs Fmd: e, uictt Cojies erjEsr 0Ty yx' LDvx OjB 6UIJ- E-VXEESO) OJICfCX C. jt-itii. RaijJcmus it C-lfiaes fcrije e-cuct i filr:
ReverendiJJimo and lUujlriJJimo Lord D. JOANNI FRIDERICO, Count a Waldftein: The Lord in the Lord, Oberleitensdorff, Named Epi- fcopo Queen Hradecinfi, Canonico, Holy Military Order of the Crusaders with Red Star to the fupremo and to the Lord General Magiftro my Culendi (Jimo.
Happiness prayer. from Soc. Jesus Illustrious Wine Co me with greater gratitude And once again he was betrayed into the light This work of Light and Shadow MantiflTae fu- pelle&ile adau&um, than Illuftriffimo I would bring you to the splendor of your name, I found no one. For you from the Triennial ferd, the only theater in the world to use a kind of inviolable and intimate friendship with the reluctance of familiarity, femper me the most conjunctival of the origin, so that that from the great nature of thee planted in the breadth of the heart, and lingular, by which thou hast advanced me and my pride, af- fe6tu, so many and so many, favor me to Thee no Dedication. I will not say that I was defeated, I was so fed up knots of profuse liberality, my heart I won, as from that time, You made me whole and you will do your work and your rights; and therefore with the most meritorious title of Lucidumbri register for yourself, not for another, not for you It is due to the most munificent Benefactor. As, of course, you are the Splendid Count of your incomparable virtues ce, one of light and shadow of mixed Art, Sc like a beam of light ami&u veftitd literary world I will turn Decet yfrs Magna Lucis f The shadow of many and varied Arts and scientific juxtaposition to the analogical art Sc the method which thou hast for a rare Genius You have obtained your happiness, as it were enter the manner of the inspiration of the Divine God nothing that was given to You, perfect, Sc pro- I was Lynceus to any of your disciples. even in the recond ition of Nature he receded from the most apt to be successful in the fortunes of the rich yours has reached excellent mud of various idioms rites and political laws at different for the peoples of Europe, the nations, which with an incredible burning ardor fti, with the intimate knowledge of the usurpers Dedication. you would rather live than devote myself to diminish the rite offered by convenience. How much there, and how profufa in liberal meeting the poor you! how wide and copious in the rich Ec- the device of the elephant to promote the skeptics contribution as much as in the place of Christ Crucifixion within the horns of a stag I will do it once to Divo Euphtachius the most famous, the fan of devotion! To whom indeed, at home and abroad that at your sacrifices, there is no one who not to the great and steep in the Ecclefia of God sometimes, to be made by the Divine for He admits that he has lost his sight. And even in it is clear from that Rome into Germany T e I will bring back the Emperor Augustus, de having already served as a Cardinal from Harach Avun with your ass for a fua in your piercing pro- with the abundance of kindness and virtues impetuous in the sacred Pragenfis Ecclefia; Immature fucceflbrem of the snow rites obftitiflet, he had already chosen. The truth is not it would appear to you in any way to be deficient; and it happened at the right time, as in Queen's Hra- you will tell the faith of the then vacant Ecclesiae you will be fubftitued; and to give you more He would adorn the fire with titles, for you together with Sa the military order of the Crusaders Dedication. the title of Prime Minister General Magiftri con took that this may be done step by step You will gradually be promoted to higher positions. He omits to here of Illuftriffimae juxta and anti- QuillimaeFamilia Tui Waldftenia- nae fplendor; I have nothing to say about heroes not at the time of the rise of the mighty gefto- the most famous glory of the rum I would like to proceed, in full volume to all these and the tongues need to be reproved ret What to use in the corners of this paper it cannot be done, so also Leffcore to the famous writers of this time, who gave it to the last monuments fat fuperque illuftrdrunt, to be relegated I cried. ValelcusTRissiME Count, fe Six branches of your family: Farewell Ger Decus of mania Bohemia, for a long time which fuperfts, and with whom I was taken to ex- reach the summit of glory with your palms indeed, to advance strongly and manfully. Give bam from the Roman College Soc. Jesus On the Kalends of November, in the Year of Salvation noftrae mdc seventy read TO THE READER OIAOMA0EI A U T H O R S. P. D. Dem Le&or to me, see this in the work divided into acci-
it seems difficult that Adolefcenti, whom Craf-: I was with Cicero of the Famous Orators, walking on the shore Icalmumoffendifle, perhaps, by fortune; which view, lest it be useless it would be for him, he compared the oar; fcahnum, moreover, adapted having destroyed his work, he also desired evil, and then his antennae, to whom evil would be slain thinking of the light, he began to sail, to build a ship, and to build an armament He invaded the seas, and acquired immense riches. What is this outpouring? I would like to explain in a few words. Sacra Caefarea Majeftas, since almost three years I have passed by for an incredible erga I am fond of more secretive things, and I have some doubts about the nature of Light and Shadow it is pleasing to commit the folly; with such a Genius of Wisdom I would in any way doom him, the tumult of the propofites As it was equal, I decided to devote myself to the pursuit of researches: while nothing less I am thinking of the composition of the book; in the most extensive, however, above the plains of Lucis intromiflus find so rich and copious a lustrous firewood, that from I fucceflied a hundred pages, which I had not in the first place organized into diatribes in time they would grow into the enormous mass of ten books. Scalm, then I found it, adjusted the oar, spread the mast and antenna, and the ship with all its weapons I have built a family of mentors: through immenfumcoeleftiumlpatiorum Having wandered the ocean of God, as far as the frailty of human harvest permitted, the greatest Lu cis glories transluftri umbratilis mechanism veil futinens j as if through At length the riches of the riches, which were not taken out, were more closely contemplated He was astonished with the greatest wonder, the wonder of which was curious and suffocating mum, as if by moving torches, he inflamed so powerfully, that thenceforth they rested in able to do nothing to expose to the world the untouchables of Light, unearthed thelauros the matter And indeed, having divided this work, I will be torn apart like a ship and the Great Art of Light and Shadow they carve more arrogantly than was equal to you tulo, we inscribed Is vermne with a fattuofo illobombilius, as it is in Plautus, some for me? Why art cm Big? why should I have called LucisScumbra? I was led to explain. And so we say art, as that which is persistent in the long-lasting light and shadow of the fierceness Contemplation found; that art, by means of variously combined rules, is far from fruitful the most fertile, he would drive the human race into flight. We say great, because of a certain secret allusion to Magnetus. Ma for the vine, the great all-attractive light of all things, is not incongruous Behold, the Magnet, I say, whom some years ago I used as a measure of my character I have revealed to the world, a great light is produced by the Nepheus, which is Heracleotica You pull the chain powerfully. We say great because of those things in which we He exercises a great deal of knowledge; since there is nothing in this profitable matter He wants to think about the environment, because Art noftra will not pay for it. When, indeed, the shadow becomes the most ancient of things, nay, before all things exist then he excelled in that nothingness, a folly worse than the Creator; neceffari6 the same Luci as a perpetual and individual count we have conjoined. And so much so s work TO THE READER, We inscribed the necessary division, next to the ten divine rays which The Hebrews call Zephiroth, the Latins Emanationes, a kind of analogy. For just as the world of the Hebrews was founded by ten rays of divinity and they brought us ten books of different themes, like ten de- you divide the world of light and shade with your rays; The idea of which we put before the eyes of the curious in this place, as it were, in a kind of Epitome Reader. When, therefore, I am far more humble than what was once Triptolemus fe they run, through the fictitious ranks of natural things, and brought forth in a wonderful manner that union of the world of faith with terror, the paranymph light, more attentively I had trusted, and therefore I did not hold back anything in the innermost worldly mass, which from Luce 8c If the shadow did not have the principles and elements of composition, I would find va
I have created a new combination of things of light (pCd%QpicLV), which for genius with such fecundity the fetus soon gave birth to two daughters, one Sciagnomicen, Chro let me see the other: these lights and the fetuses delivered again to the bride, how portentous The first book explains that they have given birth. With the light of the moon, and with a certain power, the dominion was extended by the diffusion of rivers, to touch everything, nay, the clays of natural forces in with each body shining spheres wax I composed the art of Adfinobolifmis, five radiations of natural things bus, which was conceived with a new conception, soon after one and another supported the fobolus, mun he took Echocampticen, Ofmeticen, Opticen, and other riofa and rare experiments the Second Book proceeds. Moreover, when the Shadow was gnawing at everything, the movement of Light was affected. to look at them the movement of the light of the entire Aftronomy becomes a kind of mustache and sling chin: I immediately began to think with myself, who are the molds of the Sun, the Moon, and the Star and the motions, and bring forth the Periods from the sky in the fearful narrowness of the present drink a cup of tea This, indeed, to be easily conceived in the mind, so immediately executed It was a commandment. For Gnomon, just let it be for any level pen affumpto, for papyrus for ink the shadow fe fubftituente hands of the Worker, Let the sun, I say, move all the mysterious women of the heavens and travel so far to the right soon he met with imperfection so that in the universe Aftronomia nothing so much it becomes smoke and hidden, that which has not been exhibited. And indeed in the Third Book the nature of pen, paper, and ink, that is, the Gnomon, the planes, the shadow and we develop various affections. In the fourth Horography, a variety of art We present the most important work, and the Catholic method. In the Fifth Ou- we adorn ranography, that is, the doctrine of the first mover, to any plane We deliver innumerable methods. We show Proteus on the fence, while the body of the five figure any apotheophical gnomonic to heaven We venerate it with divine honor. I also put the gnomonic Phy we base the logic on which the mystery of the whole nature, and even so of the planets, is difficult We refer to the complex movements of the folio gnomon, marveling at the profuse artifice by no one hitherto The Shadow of the Monkey of Light played until now: only the Shadow of the Monkey reflected the Light he acts: for this Promethea was a kind of intru&afatutia, fuddu&o by the fire of heaven, the immense volumes of the heavens hidden within the obscurity of the houses, that golden light with a brush he should delineate those clothes, so that within the enclosed building the gurgfuto con= fteitutus fpe&ator, conftcuted in ipfis fpaciofis fields of heat, univerfas asthe TO THE READER to traverse the fringes of the world, and to be unacquainted be given Eftque hxc Ars noftra Anacamptica, five Aftr onomy reflexa, quam Septi the mouse will carry the Book in a big way. Rurfus with the Light Shadow of the middle of the den now he is scheming, he deceives me, and more and more he is afflicted with exotic tongues fe dilates into a long, only in the Nepheus something cyclical (e recurvet3 already in Echinus (from the custom he contracted: with this occafion I founded the Anaclaftic Art, five Aftro- nomiamrefratftam, by which the riches of the heavens below the waters are innacefled We are hunting for the texture of the network, the artifice that has hitherto been inviolable, so prominent in Angular. Which The Book of Oclavus declares everything. And besides, Light and Shadow abfblutiflim in all geometry I would have attended to the ingenious gift of the Conician fairies, not from elsewhere, than the prodigal of this school, nay, from the proportion of shade to unshaded I would point out the first fundamentals of the whole practical geometry. go into it nor the thought, that nothing in this (incredible theater of the world) was so faintly unaccustomed I would believe that Light and Shadow would not give us access. Of these so that I was borne down by two feet of high mountains, and penetrated the tops of the clouds Coe the dimensions of the transfeo tias, novainduftriadimenfusfum depths. All this under the name of fub The Ninth Book of the Gnomonic Cofmometry concludes.
From these, in short, light and shade, and a cornucopia of cornucopiae abundantly, more rare than any of them I created the magic of light and shadow with the application of damaAvorum mouse: by which tripartite method do we produce the prodigious clockwork of inanimate objects paraftafes, feu reprefentationes we present paradoxesmetamorphofes, fpecu- we explain the support of the strap. Which is new and rare, so not undeservedly, as it were We have recounted the completion of all the books in the last book, the tenth feu. Moreover, as in the Sephirothic Tree, there are ten divine virtues among the branches of the latter, the Hebrew theologians put Enfuph in a higher place, this is Nu an infinite mind, inexplicable, and controller of all things, and so we ten An finally we put the same crown in place of Oren- liiph, ideft, the infinite and endless light, the fire which is the same, the eternal light, fupramundaneamiros in the fspiritual world eff&us operations: which Epi- logus, we called the Metaphyfica of Light and Shadow as mensnoftra ex at the sight of corporeal Light, or driven through certain degrees, at last in the abyss of Lu snatched away by menaces, the same from which fume the origin of the existence of fua, at last whole be united Here is the idea of ​​the work we know. In which way, in what manner, we are cast to follow the judgment of Leforus. This is certain, I have nothing to do with this at work, five times of men, five 7roXvrzxmrctTm exhibuifle, whose smoke is not diligent we have done the risk first. Nay, that many things may be accomplished in a few, in all this work We have done this very carefully, so as not to be crushed by the vulgar, fed from the penumbra of the noft Art pta, we would enrich the Literary matter of the people with new discoveries fbbole3 or ab more obsequiously delivered to others, with the greatest ease so we would conclude. I ran some things a bit more quickly with the mouse, the math Ca phy you make so permifeent, that you in a certain way from the way of feflinn pleasant di di we would refresh them with vertigo, and strengthen them to continue with vigor. New three times We have used less in the new Art, lest in the discoveries of ours, Lecforus avidly fufus I'm sorry So we directed the thread of the work. such as TO THE READER bet easily swept away from the order method of all the numbers, of the whole work mo the problem can be grasped by memory. Wherefore, whosoever hath advanced any of He will desire to draw profit by this Art; I will pour it out, as in the order in which it was distributed it is, pervol vat Let all things be thus connected, and give a certain harmonious order gefta, as a worse end than the former, is by no means either rightly understood, or easily understood they want to be led into work. And in order to know this Art, I read it fet, to the professors of divers arts, for the divers inclinations of each one, so We have adapted ourselves, so that no one will have a future, who does not come from this most fertile land As a source of light, some profit is made in the area where I was planted future They will find here a more refined geometry i gifs will find the field of new calculations open: Opti those whom they applaud will be looked upon: Cofmographers, Astronomers, Geographers, They will have what they are busy with. Mechanics, intruriflimam machines They will enter the factory of all kinds. Can learned, the things which they present, will be open to wonders. Quin ipfi Ethi ci, Metaphysicians, Theologians, and others of other faculties, who if they are affected by the bus, they will find it hidden. It is true that in the most difficult theoretical work we should proceed only with evidence, and that the delivery of such experiments might be strengthened with certainty: There was no lack of men who wanted to work with what kind of money God, as if with an obfteteric hand, blow into the light munificently, and with great liberality they did ma lat Whom between us we llluftrifimus, Generofifimus Dominus S. R. I. Liber Baro de Mount St. George occupies a prominent place. For here he is born of a noble son tate, enough to pervade the whole of Europe, and the ani of all men of letters the majesty of the magnificent fane will win him over; at last he landed at Rome, as a help
ri noftro let him preside over the light and the glory: of whose men in Remp. Lit. merits, in In regard to the literate, the unbelievably prodigious, I judge that the filer is more confident than they are to reach Here I must not omit the Illuftriffimus Knight of Caffianus from Pm- to theo, who for almost a decade now has profited in the literary matter with zeal, my works, which au He never fails to advance the race with which I am committed. Hifce goes to the infinissile truly Jo. Marcus Marcus, Medicus Pragenfisj Cui nanate efle see There I was with the children, that is, with the literate, those by which it is possible to affect beneficence. To whom We acknowledge that we are eternally bound by merit. The truth should not be confused with other words LeRor's ears were covered with gasps; a pen Whatever you do there, LeRor benevolently, the labor is unknown, all for your benefit Do these things to thee, and I will reap the harvest safely for thee. God rv cropdc ra venerable to pray, that the rest of my impofts to his honor let them go happily. If indeed any one should bear this labor of mine more earnestly, Momi, I would certainly be proud that of Clement of Alexandrinus will be the apothegm of the unique confoliation. No lum, viz deliver With Pliny, I also observe the same thing, their peculiar habit in their studies the weak, who preferred to the difficulties of force the advantage of the grace of pleasing; as a consequence I do not pretend to be greatly concerned with the vexations of others, as long as the Celestial Im perio, of others that I will satisfy the Prince of the World as a modus operandi. Whose I shine, as he kindled me to burn, so I shed the same shadow from everything I trust that I will defend myself easily when the pain is gone. Farewell, SERIES, ORDER TOTAL WORK. THE FIRST BOOK Physiology of Light 8c Shadow. Part One Photofopia, five of the bright heart of the world through the pores and the light flowing from them nature, &afle): ione Chapter I. On the original light, five on the Sun, of all luminous bodies at first Fol. i Of the triple approach of the Sun, direct, reflected and refracted f III. Of the marvelous work of the sun, and its effect Spots, spots, etc. Sola rium IV. Of the moon five by the light of the moon, another and among the planets, V. Of fire, and the bodies of the night-light, and the production of heat in the mun De Photifmus Animalium, five de the light created by animals by f VII. Of Photifmus Aquatilius, (ive de created by the watery light. VIII. Of Photifmus stones and minerals lyum Also about the stone and all of them wonderful. On the properties of light in the gene X. On the Nature and Efficiency of Light in the world of fublunari, fcholaflica XI. On the amazing power of light bus inproducing nature job luhari prodigiis XII. How does light generate colors? viable species in the middle. How heat is generated by light there on earth, air, five ath- moffhrera ibid. XIV. How heat cools, fic- city, and humidity in to produce fublunar to the world. Miraculous power of the Sun, and the Lunar light threats to plants, jg soul lia How the light of heaven (lit. , by heat He spread the natural fire the life of the living creature; it is revealed that in this true Aftro- logically ju say carice about life The sun fg the moon with light, and the heat with heat generations of all things complete Or from the foundation of inheritance some genethliaca Aflrologiee it is conftituipoffit Part II
Sciafophia, five of the Shadow of Light foboles, and the power of all things in the nature of things is amazing to you HEAD On the origin of the etymology and definition Shadow How does the light run together leading the Shadow III. De remiffione, fg intenfione Vm- Bree. IV. On physical efficiency, ibid. V. De Arte Sciagnomica, Shadows- that wonderful nature from, compared to plants, fg trees, with the ruler the ode to Sciagnomia is fervan- push Part III Chromocritica.
the foundation of man. Chromatifmis of natural things, five on the nature and affection of colors. Many of the variety of colors fidi- ibid. III. Chromatifmus aereus, five de co with ropes in the air, and in the clouds ap parents IV. Chromatifmus Anaclaflicus five de colors in glass polyhedrons. f
V. Chromatifmus metallicus, five de the variety of colors in the mineral bus, f7 VI- Chromatifmus Botanicus, five de the colors in the grass shine to you VII. Chromatifmus Zoographus, five about the colors in Animals. Art Chromocritica, five de colo judgment, divination not Ten rules in the judgment of colors VIII. book Series, Sc Order THE SECOND BOOK On A&inobolifmis p five radiations. Part of PrPMa.
C iPUTl. All the virtues of natural things light orbit there J. I h, p e rpfiiatime of light, &fpecierum of life.
II Der and fafcpgciden- do you know? or the body? IV. Everything. ibjetla pattern of light they radiate into the world. prefentation of Jpecies in ob- I hope J'" VI. Athnobolifmus, five radiation So li nt- I V: VII. Phonocamptica five Echolo- rgipn VILL Phonognomia, five on divination; foni from the foni apjufvis body injlituenda i y. -Ip, A#ipib$lifmfis ireftquyriim fen- scented with a son, guftuf- X. Atlinoholifmus of platic virtue, five formatives in fperma-
XI. On the radiation of the soul to the outside. XII. Atiinoholifmus of the elements, ibid. XIII Atiinoholifmus Sympathicus, Antipathetic medicine lyum P A R S, II.
Aftinobolifmus opticas, five de radia vivial, the foundation of the whole op
CHAPTER I. Z Ocuh (truaura, CS5 vifione t; s f some propofitions the nature of all optics
II. Sciagraphic art, five of nature li' rbrum outline. III. De Projections fcenographicts
A pm IV. On the Art of Scenography Rules of Art P itio r ia.
B E R T BJiiTlUS. . Gnomonic curiofie Apparatus contains, a' Ai'r. i f iM PjL J HI Theorumena. y V r t Protheorically. De requifitis qdAflronomiam CHAPTER I. Definition of the circle of umeolefiium, n! vumque in hor, o'giphia varia of: r Jfciif. II. Fourteenth-fold m1. if IH. Of Planes i five fuperfifterum variety of horographies. -1V: Z)ir compoftione Libella. V. various Horolabius paffioni i5g Protheoria z. Conics. dofltina of fctlions w. ten "proportions"
Part JI Progymnafmqtica Ki'qua all these, how to the great Art in any way they eagerly polish, inve ftigttfltur, &ad pfaxirfrbrdinantur Ptofm nafma j? D e, cplcydq Afronomico, ad Gnomonic diretlo, one with ten tables Gno- monks conical jets, circle, el- lipfifyperbold, parabola, inpla- Jb? bodyguards v fiariurqinplanqmprojetl. CapVtI. Of the truth tS a sure method geome tricus, which is given to every bow circle net equal ujftgna- a
II! f t, K Jiy SA; t T ibid. book Total Work book or ARTUS Various horographies. Part One Of the Astronomical Clocks, five a mere day, and midnight CHAPTER I. On rests for the gnomonic, five to horography. II. Horographia Anakmmatico geo metric III. About the clocks declining from me ridie, the first vertical fire IV- Gnomonic sphcera, ejufque in ho rography ufus, &praxis On clocks of every kind by ob- easily conflruen fervation On the Rule of Sciathfrica, and in horography varied, wonderful fig tree Part II On Italian and Babylonian clocks. CHAPTER On Clocks from Ortus, tfjOccafu colluding Of the unequal hours, feu Pla- inferred from the given plane by taking To whom was added a wonderful artist of the closing hours.
A BOOK INSIDE. Gnomonic Ouranography. Prjeexercit Trianguli radiofi Zodiaci de- capture The radiating triangle of the quantum of the days of the state, and will be brought Analemma, for conic feItion carrying them, con- (Iruere. etc. Network, (ive lnflrumentum Al- mucantaro-azimuthic de- to strike f. Almucantaras, Azymutha in the vertical plane to read ibid. The problem The arc of the Zodiac, the five Zodiacs gnomonic in various ways in given a plane to strike. In the polar plane. ibid.
Gnomonic zodiac in the me plane ridiano drawing The same in the horizontal plane li. ibid. The same in the vertical plane. In the declining fans. On inclined planes zontem In planes declining from the hour zonte ibid. Anacephalceoticum, (ivemetho- a universal leader, given a bow four planes of inference Explained to the canons. Mechanics of bows (ignorant The inference of the zodiac, this ejl, with the help of new instruments by the author of the findings. Problem Almucantaras, Azymutha given the planes to strike. And at first, in the plane of the hour zontal and vertical, ibid. In the ccquinoftial plane. In the polar plane. In the meridian plane, and elsewhere to all who decline from the spring tice plane On the circles of Pofition, five de twelve houses in a given plane drawing, declare the five Pragmatisms
In any irregular plane give to cast down the house ccelefles inftr umento tiretico. . Horofcopia Signorum fiveQuod the son of the Zodiac every month the chin of time arises, or kill, or in the middle, or. He becomes the shadow of the sky bet to determine the plane, ibid. In the horizontal plane of the sheets the particular rise of fixed to strike All Jyphthema fixed on these so you would carry the rum on the plane to rise and fall at the same time they should be perpetually dismantled, Series, O r d o Gnomonic Geography. Problem Circles of networked networks, five meridian circles in horizontal plane dejcribe really ibid Mecography, five lengths of places in the horizontal plane, so to write down; as given to any ho ra, quota hour in the whole world three times rare (it, cognofcerepojjis. Spacium ixtityopsis, five Jonam tor laugh at any given level gnomonic projection
The parallels of the daily arcs in at any given plane re, Gnomonic about the climate of the whole world to write Details of the declination of the Sun horizontal plane in- to write
THE SIXTH BOOK Protheus Sciathericus, five Aftrolobiographia figurata ua no figure of five planes, five leaves, to be given pojje taught, which Afiro- He was not satisfied with the ability of the lips or the watch. Part One Of the Catholic Clocks. HEAD The beginning of the catholic clocks rum r Problem Catholic horolabium, idem- que fe5 multiplex; id it is, in one and the same fuperfi cie, a horizontal clock, vertical univerfale conjlrue, the fatness of which is in the whole mouth be ejfepojfit. Together with no go, and hitherto unknown with the help of the hourly end of the previous magnet to fit Horolabium concave cylinder I am universal. Other universal horoscopes defcri- option Horolabia fphcerica universalia write down ibid. g. Part of portable clocks culars, first of hemicy- registration of clihorologists. Chapter II. Of the news of all kinds of hours, and the heaven of circles for a day in which hollow bodies the best of the project to go into the system. The problem. To assemble the ship. ibid. To conjlruere the clock cube. Any irregular polyhedron a watchmaker ibid. In the hollow cylinder aflrolabium to outline yo In the concave cone draw the same that Enter the same description. ibid.
Inside the same hollow pyramid preetlare In any given prism of sides To describe Jlrolabium. Inflrumento tiretico in quibufcun- that of irregular bodies con to outline the hollows. ibid. In the tetracyclic column idemdefcri- to drink ibid.
Part II On the equinoctial clocks for anyone level of incrimination Chapter I. Of the Catholic Church, five universal The problem Horojcopium tetracyclum cequi- to describe the marriage. ibid. Cross horologe The name J E S U defcri clock to drink ibid. Aquilce horologce defcriptio. Of the Catholic horocopii fupra polar plane ibid. Universal watch ring issue ibid. CHAPTER II. On particular clocks instead hard To prepare a gnomonic globe, in which Jlylus, of the whole of the first month
bilious teaching. ibid. Smash another amazing ball in a matter in which there is no point but all the precedicla jolaluce they are often A paradoxical problem for everyone Mathematicians propofitum. o. In any to describe the retic aflrolabia. ibid Total Chapter Of portafdispantamorphis. ibid. Probi, u. Adrolabia in the form of a quarter together with Columia the watchmaker. ibid. With an immovable pen the same on the plane of the hour zontali, in the figure given trans to form, to use Tefludus the watchmaker, the bee, the ara nea, and that thing, horologically. Bring the artificial cylinder ih er e, what hour is it in the streets of the places demonstrative By this new method Afirolalia in pla no horizontal, Jlylo from the center nor wrongly eretlo, defe they will grow thin Part III Conjugium Gnomonicas, Phyficas, live Gnomonic Phyfico-aftrologica. Chapter I. Of the gnomonic year, ejufq; party Problem The Hemerology of Ecclefiaflicum the form of Aquilce Imperialis. CHAPTER II. Of the various effetes in Zo deacon, likewise of the electionib. of things gnomonised demonftrandis Probe Sciathericonlatro-georgico-cecono- the flash should be sprinkled at the right time. in the form of Columia flying. ibid. work Chapter III Sciathericum Botanologicum, ftve of plants, and of others a gnome with the strength of the dice nice to meet you IV. Physiological clock of government of the planets, in which, such as the members of the human body two of the cim pegs conflicted ref let him play, the shadow of the Sun hates him V. DeSciathericis fecundum of the mass lium D g Ti SI 1Sfive about the motions of the Planets Monflranding sun. Of Horofcopo affending, de- fcendency of the bondsmen. VII. Of the length of the places, five de Horofcopio geographico in for The mother of the tree is adapted to each other that hour takes place in all fBlings Colleges of the entire Society of ESU, the shadow is demonstrated. VIII. Atrophyopia, Jive Sciatherica Sele- niaca, velnoclurna, to which par- tim by the moon radiating um bram, partly through the laces fixed radioshora ideas is shown THE SEVENTH BOOK Anacamptic art, live Afuonomia reflexa. Part One On the nature of reflected light. CHAPTER I. Of the creation of the world, and its wonders confection II. On the necessity of the reflected ray, ejuf that in the lower world bus ibid. III. The hot zone of the reflected beam and each of them is effective. IV. Of the effective reflexes of the fub zone tempered V. On the reflection of the rays of the effete fub zo let it cool About the efficiency of light reflection change of air, plants, anus Malice! VII. About the change of things in the world change the climate VIII. Of the line of atlion luminofie, by term and amount of heat On the multiplication of the heat of light I reflected on the incident ra. Yes? Part II Theoretic. By the nature of this reflected ray by ten The problem is oftended. Part III Of the Cylindrical Mirrors, tB cast in The business of reflection has a wonderful force. Part IV Problematic. Bring back to practice what was found in prasdi&is it is said: CHAPTER I. On horography reflected in planes regular II. Ajtrolabiographia Anacamptica, in any given body the bus must be repaired. Ajtrolabiographia Anacamptica in portable bodies to protect jjj Part V On linear reflection, Jive on ajtrolabijs ana- of the countryside, with which the light reflected integm the first moving line, and the circle in each given a plane, novahucujque, fBinJolita they are projected by reason. a BOOK Series, O r d o THE EIGHTH BOOK: Anaclaftic art, five refracted Aftronomia. Qua [AflronomU Gnomonica arcana per lines y circulofque umbratiles, Anach- Jftica dejcriptione, idejtrefraBiommnopa fcientia, in anyone In the interior, in the forum, fuperfict projects are curiously taught. Part One Physiological nature, effect, neceffita- theme, utility, and various means explaining the situation. Chapter I. Of Etymology, and the nature of cooling you y8S II. Talk about the diversity of media capable of action. f Protheorumena broken To whom, by ten theorems,
whatever attack does it belong (He is angry. f$i CHAPTER Decomposition of the Anaclafti dear Problem Compute the tables of refrigerants
Four canons of calculus. ibid. Table I. Anaclaftica from air in how to start teeth perpendicular to the radius matter, together with the differences between for any two refractions the size Table Anaclaftica clay re- with the help of calculating fractions containing accounts. Table III. Anaclaftica from the air in water Inflrumentum Mefopticum ana- to confirm the clavicle. ibid. Anaclaftic table of rays of inci of the teeth in wine, oil, Vi trum, from the obfervation of the Author De RefraCiionibus Athmophteri. Together with the table of reference nisfyderum Anaclafiic quadrant in nego useful con- Jlruere On the horizontal network of the anaclaftic structure Aftrclabium anaclafticum hori to confirm the zontal ibid. f. zAffirolabium 'vertical anaclafii when to compare. A network of vertical anaclaftic manufacturers ca. ibid. Part II CHAPTER I. Anaclaftic gnomonics in quibuf- but in the interior of bodies with fuperficies, partly by the geometer ca, partly by arithmetical reasoning to be exercised Problem Ahaz's clock, five in he- micyclo, feu hemiphterio con Afirolabium was placed in the hollow. That he would show nothing, even if I were where I was with which it was first filled, Problems presented, ibid. A hollow cylinder anaclafiicits clocks Conus concave anaclafiicus horo- In the vafe tetrahedron, feupiramidal Anaclafiicadefrictio. ibid. o. Triangular columns, feuprifma- ti, or even a parallelepiped, in fine, to any one, however widely to be completed quickly anaclaftica of fiium circles registration Chapter III About anaclafiic clocks I was a hollow body I will finish it in the easiest way by offering injcriben push ibid. ix. Given the anaclaftic schedule, com many other things in any case gularisplams, I did quickly about linear ibid. Put the tip of the gnomon outside the water turn the clock to him theric below the water to drink Chapter IV. De horofcopijs Anacamptico ana- clafticis, five reflexo refra Horofcopium anacamptico-anacla- to confirm ibid. I prepare the same other confidence already ibid. Horofcopium diredo-reflexo-re- to commit fraud ibid. book Total Work. THE NINTH BOOK; Gnomonic cofmometry, five of the worldly parts fitu size, quantity, height, light-shadow to grow in reason. Part One Sciatheric geometry, which is a new method I give the diftantiaz, the distance, of the given things dines, breadths, depths, um arm of light directed, reflected, refracted, in they are given I spilled out. On the shadow, in Cofmometria Gno monica benefit. Rebbe from the shadow, verfa. ibid. About the shadow of the Sun, Moon para- doxum, St What are the differences between the shadows let the sun rise in the middle. ibid. Rays from one, equal to that of the sun to different parts of the earth dubious, effete parallels. CHAPTER I. Of the quantity of things acquired light shadow reasoning ganda Problem The geometric sciatic con- (Going, heights of things mnium umbraflyli in parts divided, demonftrans ibid. Another influence of photofciome- metician Chapter II. Catoptric geometry, five de um reflexed bra, reflexes. Problem Altitudes, dilations of depth the wealth of things, to be measured with a mirror by the shadow of things in small pieces reflected to the eyes of the menfore. ibid. Pantometric clothing to compare the topric ibid. Bring the amount of reflected sunlight to find things. By means of the ray anaclaftkum the matter fub to measure water Part II Gnomonic cofmometry, flve de quan tity of worldly bodies, their which from the earth diffuses through Light Um bram inveliganda Prsriufio On the difficulty of the work. Problem The quantity of earth's mass fo- to find the shade or the light. The greatness of Athmofphaera, id efl, the greatest of brass, quee a So illuminaripote from the earth
(Investigate the lantia by the light reflected On what account are clouds, or beams, other things? that meteors in the air that they may swear Beam, nollurnopotiffmum tempo in fact, the height of the sky to measure ibid. The heights of the mountains through the forest (link
What part of the terrestrial globe do you know? can illuminate The strength of the heavens, and their expansion from the earth, fruitful teaching Ptolemy to spend. years Diffusion from the earth by parallax to find The width or height of the shadow to find earthly The apparent diameter of the Sun, Monday, of them finally big the health of both bodies to find shade Se litis from the earth didantiaminfemidia- to find meters. What is the diameter of the Sun, in Je- to find the diameter of the earth. Jf3 Another reason through the sun's face, C) Monday in every journey. ibid. The true art of the eclipfeon of Monday easy to use to steal The cofmometric effect, which cleftium bodies diftantically, size, shade, width Dines, to each other with the help of wires are determined alive, (near the truth is stolen. j Canon Solis, inve the depth of the earth smile Given the diameter of the Sun, and its depth Sun from the earth, to find a diamond trum of the Sun in half-diameters of the earth The distance of the moon from the earth by in- Uranometric instrument in to come ibid. The height of the sun from the earth through invefti dilium gation ibid. Pro- w Jv Series Problem i The proportions of the diameters om of the Planets to the Sun, and of these, finally, the long umhras to write down the fields. Canon. The quantity of the diameter of the Sun, ter ree, and every shadow ibid. Distrust from the center of the earth, ejuf that size and shade to grow Distrust from the earth and the Sun, his shade, size, and other proportions per um bram, Qp to find the light, ibid. Shadow, the size of the ve fligar e. Shadow, size in vefligare through ipjam lu you want um bram ibid. Shadow and size T? God and bring forth his breath from the earth (li O R O The fixed stars spread from the earth through the shadows ibid. Comets from the altitude of the earth, and to grow in size. Pinax Ourancmetricus proportion nes bodies exhibiting Organum Sciatherico-ccfmometri-. when ibid. The machine. Dafaproportione Sun, re of liquid planets, together with diftantiis, um mechanically determine the beam really ibid. To adapt the bodies of the planets to the body of the Sun, and of the earth, juxta show the proportions in the picture you o Define the Cephmometric Sphere really ibid. THE TENTH BOOK Magic of Light Shadow. In juA about the storage of Light Shadow effects for various colors applied Preface Of Magic, at the beginning of this Book. Part One Horographic magic, five about clocks prodigious CHAPTER I. Dearcanahorcgraphia, radiopar- tim direct reflection refraclove to be installed f Problem Parafceuaflicum. egg hour difficult to describe. ibid. The shadow of the figure of Death on the wall [so to write Horological figures of the seven planets to describe dittas Anacamptic clock, box not recorded by art. ibid. f. The Anacamptic statue a matter which I have previously been in obscurity the doctrine of the whole of the first mover demon fire The clock at the end of Itylus, and the shadow anacampticum jub form group Imperial ibid. A fancy clock. A clock in the middle of the crypt carried away Another anemone clock.
Gap, De Sciathe ricis prodigofis Anacla- you can ibid. , is being done. A clock made of glass fphara to the born model to present The statue of the water clock. ibid. The syren with the fpeculus for hours fub water reflecting refracting ibid. Horofcopium wonderful confufo-or- strengthened Chapter III. Of the clocks of Catoptric. ibid. The clock is magically in the fpeculi ex fly away, ibid. Another mysterious way, im penetrable Another Catoptric clock.
ibid. cam, horologist fxmul, ane- mofeopus CHAPTER IV. De Horologiis Heliocauflicis. ibid. Horologium heliocaufticim, five So lare -viflorium conflruere. C A P. V. On Magnetic Clocks. The doctrine of the first mover of all single needle magnetka demonftra really. ibid. the same in the vertical plane
A magnetic machine net Total Work A magnetic clock, in which Furjum and Deerfum lizard curfing, with natural motion for hours to demonstrate Like a dove flying through the air ras demonsftret On Sympathetic Clocks, Bota zoologists ibid. On rotating clocks. Clock Mechanics Mantiffa ibid. Techmafma. Hydraulic clock to crush, that through the Globulus water floating for hours is harmful DiuquemonftPat. The Aquatic Clock that Ho ras in the outer index of the demon he Sympathetic clock great to crush a tick Part II Paraphthalic magic with those prodigious things; by Light Shadow CHAPTER I. Of the Representations Paraftafis Naturae, fwz de Morgana Rhe- ginojrum in the Strait of Mamerti
Artificiofa of aerial stones exhibition C A P. II. Of the rich hair of Nature clothed, which in human and animal fetuses owls, plants, stones, ni- hilnonefformqt. Nature's hair is rich in stones, and plant miracles. Chapter III On the accidental representation of things cafuali, and how that art things inducipojjit? You start Optics. Rocks and garden in however, transform the figure
Scenographic As a single image be paid fivefold. Chapter IV Paraftafisperfpecierum in obfcu- I'm going to leave the place. Light-shadows and in which there are various shades the filumacras of things are presented. ibid. Scenica, live from the Scenery app artfully conjured with lights Of various artifices of color, and prodigious miftura ibid. Paper to be painted in the Turkish fashion system ibid. Another method of the former is much more ark I'm sorry C A P. V. De Paraftafi Anaclaftica, five de of things by rays refracted into with waters and bodies of glass exhibition With this water, by force treas, polygonal glasses, admi take out all the pieces of things they are ibid. Experiment. To spread the image by art, to live from the same pound, a little let him go away to nothing, and out of nothing and again into the bottom of the veil ginem cr e fc at. ibid. To suddenly compare the images ant. let them appear. ibid. Through the fpktera glasses, five glasses bowls, display items
Perprimata glass, mirappelia to present ibid. As a room with every peripetafma- then you will see the load.
Diacrifis Author. Both side by side Anaxilaum, Alertum, Por so, killing the whole house and other animals They can be fantasized. ibid. A room full of figures of grapes, of animals to present it. GAP VII. On Pyroparaftafi, five on Fire the exhibition of rum fpeliacs not ibid. Experiment. Of the friction of fire. ibid. Whether it is possible to become a stone, I follow [I think he will stir up the flame, in boil the water at Can the fire be extinguished? driving? ibid. Experimenta Pyroparaflaticai. Light in to carry fresh water Line wire and paper buftible ibid. On Camphorce's wonderful virtue, ibid. Take out the Dragon flying in the air to drink ibid. From there one too Aquila Regiomontani, Co Architte's loins Fiery rain, five springs to present a fire ibid. Chapter VIII Of dioptrica, Hve of glass pan- tofcopies, telefcopiis eorumquc various forms, (epfelhbus. in the same place about matter and form glasses, lenses, etc placement, effedis. ibid. Pragmatics How fpecies of things in ob- to find a place of transmiffs in S E R. E S J On the wonders of natural things protection by Smicrofcopium in- to sail ibid. Of Telecopii, and their results ParaftaflSi. Mountains, rivers, seas, im- the plains of the plains, vo
raging immense lakes, rivers, and among them animals of every kind optical tube new art so re- to prefent, so that nothing outside it profus yifarum rerum com match at For what reason, when it is said from in the air, then the rainbows, the sun, the moon, Stars, reprcefentari pojfintij Part III Magia Catoptrica, five prodigious matters exhibition of rum through fpecula. CHAPTER I. On the Confusion of Mirrors II. Of the various affections of game, perfect propofitions to be done there n III. Of the convex fphceric fpeculis.
IV. Of concave fphceric mirrors, and their prodigiofts operation with them through four prophecies is being done V. Of the Cylindrical Mirrors, of them that affections. Of the Conic fpeculi, and theirs properties. VII. On parabolic mirrors, hyperbo- lico, elliptical, and their affe actions ibid. Abolish the registration format par, hyperboliccc, ellipticce, per odo Problems. ibid. Chapter I About the safety glasses, I give five rtis, and their effebhbus, Whether Archimedes and Proculus as great as the Authors they will be destroyed, the ships will be lost Ibid. And whether fp can become a little bit more cautious into infinite fruition ibid. Of safety mirrors, planes, fphcericis Problem x. To crush the alembic with that art, as the leaves of uftorior fpeculos with the help of the greater let him obtain more power than fire strong To rush the machine conft, quece ad fire every hour on the altar, light the candles O R D O gives, perabloque fon let him make the fire that burns put out the smoke ibid. To make a lamp by art, quce in a remote diftantia fcript let him present the legend. Of the Magic Lantern of Thauma- turgee conftrublion ibid. On Smicrofcopio Paraftaticus. r A machine made of plain glass ftrure, to a hundred feet, and beyond burning ibid. To crush the statue, before or then of the sun, and of clay in the last few hours the sun he will stir up the prodigious rope.
Head II. I spoke about the plane mirror, and the multiplication of species. ibid. Paraftafis r. Multiplicative plane mirrors they are a part of one thing. To present the dragon with two fpeculis even as many heads as I like. ibid. Candelabrum Folylychnium: fia- your Polycephalus y On the wonderful things of the people the prism of ifopleurum difpophytes. ibid. Polydiblic Catoptric Theater when to crush, in which queeeun- that you will to the old model rae be presented, ibid. CaP. III. Of the egrejfu of idols outside fpecu- lum, five of reprcefentation of things in the air outside fpecu- Techmafma Catoptricus. I go to the object li in the middle of the air
In the fpeculo cylindraceo fpe cies present the rum in the air. ibid. Find any figures in the air tare With the aid of a magnet together with a small object rums are presented in the air. ibid. C A P. IV. De Metamorphofus, feu transfor Catoptrical mation. ibid. Metamorphofis r. I looked at the man with the help of the mirror transfer to any shape the sea ibid. Various problems in the middle present to the darkness Transformation through fpecula conve- xacylmdracea, conical Turn the face into different colors tare y. A man's face is a thousand ways across to form ibid. Total Work. The face of man into various animals monjtrofe tranjmutare ibid Two plain Jpeculis face it to face various threats. ibid. The same for concave-convex jpecula to criticize The nature of another man's guilt trans- to change ibid. THE NEW CRYPTOLOGY. By this catoptrical art the two friends not only had secret conceptions of the mind Absent with no business Where to manifest; fed absent (eipfos to trick his friends with a new kind of Catoptric replication they are able to present innumerable other things. Part One The ProjeHone figures in each distance from the Sun. Chapter Y. I will read something about you in Lunar He decided to hang out. II. From Mirrors to Steganography Catoptricum neceffarijs. III. Of the gods, which are to be thrown forms of things required. J. V. DepraxiSteganographica. ibid. V. On the projection of shadows, live fi of any kind.
Of Vmhris, I color fire with images raft ibid. VII. De Scenica, fire hyflorica repra- the fortune-telling of things. VIII. Steganographic clock de- to write ibid. Part II On Catoptric Stegartography by light candle Epilogue} (and the Metaphyfica Lucis Shadows. Epiciremat. light Tri-una On the failure of the Eternal Light. How is eternal light created in creatures? it is done; and how the creature created light they know in the light Ejfdcus Sun and Moon, all creation they become fables. All knowledge is light, from light migenia infinitely proce dent. there d. God is the source of light, and an angel the first light of the fire; Jecun- dumfipeculum, homo- Of the light of Mtelleblual. qz Rational Light, U Phantafiti-
How the light of the creature to the Creator be perfectly united. Mythical Sphere, River Tropology cis Shadows Tropological rules. To whom the soul was astonished at the light. emerging, perfectly clear Lu I conjoin the mine from which it flowed he is eating A Rule A plausible view of the world. ibid. To imitate the properties of light to be proposed ibid End of the Series, Order of the Whole Work. Z Oh THE GREAT ART OF LIGHT AND SHADOW ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI FROM THE SOCIETY OF JESUS. Thilofophis 3V[athemat: ci mbilifiimi. D E Everything through all (the circle of Delius, ! Heaven, and earth, and sea, and Styx, The trumpet strikes with a gleam, Crimson shot fire And she who rejoices in the castles We know the queen as much as Mecate's triceps With the people of the sisters, you are happy The horse spurts, and the chariot pitches Then what about Lycaum, then Pergamum? Or the augur of Tufcus, or of Babylon, Colchive memphores poisoned Let them draw with twin torches; A prodigal man of strange speech You tell KIRCHE, and knowledge Tested, you walk around the world Star maker Art. Archimedes did not know the ether Cryptallus once: not even a radio globe. Phalantaeus, the redeemer of the earth He had written with imperiosity. I want to disprove the wrong story Humpbacked axes of Amphitryonides; And the column of fubles Afer will be welcomed by the reefs. Indeed, you are the pegmat of the cell of the court Fers the twisted top of the fan, Rodent fuccejjorts both The envy of Telamon is black. Jupiter also reigns as a brother of fummi, And the Great Mother, who is visible from every side, And the prison of the winds, and The chiefs of Phaeton's shores. And when you send faith is the key to you. They close the whole thing, Daedalus is finished Nature has prepared you for things. He blames a little penetrative. Therefore let the fans shine brightly Art is great in the world, you are slow to evil Shall affect the shadow, nor the magiftris Let the people be filled with darkness. James Gibbesius WLed. DoB. ATHA Athanasius Kircher
A very famous man Great work on the Nature of Light Shadows To the author,
EPIGRAM Do you touch the sun properly? while Light Shadow Nature You pledge this retuliffe Book. You can scarcely overcome this: you are not mortal what you dare For Lhaeton dares to see his fate. To be surprised! E%US finished art None Immortal: it is said A AN A T radijs Solem E%IU S Heros It reaches hence the reputation of the nefcia will die. Ovid: Another thing. You are looking for LTA referring to The Nature of Light Shadow: Alt ius ipjd Aquila, Jed your fame flies.
Another thing. I no&e day by day shines upon thee Author; will shine ant. French payenus j. u. doctor and in the Avenion Academy. Regent, Prof. Pub
HAR- THE HARMONY OF THE DECACHORD Whether the idea of the work is divided. I. Physiology of Light, Sciaphophia, Chromatic Art. II. A&inobolifmus of Nature Echophophy, Optica. III. Apparatus for Gnomonic Curiophus, Do&rina Conotomic. IV. Various horographies, to be preserved in the given planes. V. Aftrolabiography, and Gnomonic Geography Proteus Sciathericus, Gnomonica Phyfico-aftrologica. VII. Art Anacamptica, five Reflections on aftronomy. VIII. Art Anaclaftica, five Aftronomia refra&a. Gnomonic cofmometry, this is the measure of the world's light-shadows. X. Magic of Light and Shadow, Horographic, Paraphtatic, Catoptric. Epilogue, five Metaphyfica Lucis Ulubrae. In the decachordopfalterium I will give you a pfalia. Paul v. GREAT ART LIGHT SHADOW THE FIRST BOOK PHYSIOLOGY LIGHT SHADOW;
In which the universal nature of Light and Light, the effects of wonderful effect and works of both ap let them be drawn first. T JE F A ANTiE femper that bright effulgence of light among the sharpest and every Philophophus was of such a temper, that you put him in his inaction the cephalic glare in the eyes, soon the acietivxliKOpctmv of the illifaoculorum inftar blinding in the midst of the light they have detected the futitus. Plato, Marfilius tefte, certainly not female caliginofiimhujufmodi He seems to have experienced the brightness of the light: when he is now in the light You give darkness and wonders to the environment of all ineffable things the wonderful effulgence, the hidden Univerfimbolum, with whom you go, go down with me to the gods, the means, finally, to the lowest, and the fummif are connected by a wonderful reason, ap pushes Plotinus' hidden vehicle of the worldly spirit, ri fhm cceli, and joy: I add to these a certain, and divine divine con- a teiligentix image, which cannot be inveigled by any fublimity: in fine, a certain force He designates a group that works all things in all things; nor incongruous. For what? another Light in God, nifiimmenfebonitatisfuae, truthifque exuberant? What? in the Angels, there is no certain intelligence, as I speak with Dionysius, certainty a Flowing to God, and overflowing with the joy of the will? Why is that a different thing to the coelefts? It is a more virtuous explanation than that of the Platonics do they name the reef of the heavens? Why is the fire, the snow, some vital energy from the back? bus agents, embedded, and effective propagation? Finally, in those which I rent, nothing in the sky a kind of diffused grace, everywhere of divine goodness, verita- and the type, and the image. For we see that the filum and the force of the rays of the coelephs were we through the crytallina fspaces of the heavens, as if through certain eyes of glass let all things be given perfidy, breath, life, and motion; so much so, indeed, that the plants were still fecund in the women's wombs, laughing like a foot of light profiling, and expanded with joy, soon into leaves, flowers, fra- so they would protrude. Animals walking with the joy of heaven, I say the fertile ray of light, as if stimulated by a kind of reef, and expanded by mustard gas, in a fertile movement of pleasures They are loved. Minerals are otherwise remote from all the strength of light, by a kind of inviolable power of the rays, it was drawn into swelling, and by dilation it was in When they were met, they rushed as if in an embrace (verb) and danced with the coelefies of the fphaeris P R FATI O they seem to act. While this trick pours through everything, let it permeate everything, everything through by meowing he forms, and makes, he vivifies all things; fights, gathers, unites, divides gathers everything together. Everything that exists is either illuminated, or heated, or by force they want, or are born, or are nourished, or increase, or are perfected, or mo come He turned to faith: Converfa cleanses; completes all, renews all, He gathers all things together, and makes nothing to depart from them the country is, and menfura, Magnes lifted up, drawing all things to faith. The light of all things puriffimaj to be exalted, to be humbled, to be tamed; needy of none, rich of all, but drawing all things, I draw from all; the ornament of the heavens, the glory of the heavens things, the beauty of the world, and the beauty, the joy, and the brilliancy of all things, the world's den that the confidence of the whole; with which there is nothing more pleasant, nothing more joyful in mind, nothing more powerful so? nothing is more convenient, nothing is more important for knowledge, nothing is more useful for action; at the end of which All these things, unknown to them, would fizzle out in the dark. This one therefore we shall try to explain the Light: to whose admirable character, and the hidden power of the movement, and the profuse 7rciJVyAnimm ftupet, ohtutuq$ bret is fixed in one, the less he turns first, what he nods, what he refuses. In yet with so great a wonder of the world, and the greatest ignorance of things, I must dare to believe in others what, and what should nojlri' shoulders be able to bear, what should they bear, to be endangered, as with his help they can become admirable, let the world know it. When, indeed, fcopus nofter it is done, to reduce this matter to the norm of art; I will also strike art And it is necessary to have this principle rested. From the definitions, therefore, pro- Having said this, let us begin with five axioms.
challenge DEFINITIONS I. M Lucis fii- worshiped eB, which light wonderful shadow in the world Let us become the tura of things, and we present II. Art Sciognomica eB, which of the place with the cunning of some shade} or infallibility out of the shadow of the place of the thing we judge the overshadowing. III. Chromocritical art from the force of the extermination of any appa rents from intrinfecas let us judge Phono critically 'True, which from the Voice and the sound of the latent the nature of any thing praBicumju let's form a dictionary IV. We say that the body is a light fum, d no matter how deep the light there V. The body of Diapbanum from fi light through the way, yet shadow and light water receptive The opaque body of the clMot&v, this I will be impervious to light. VII. I will be the leader of the quality of the shining body inborn, to be used as fol, fire, no Biluca table. VIII. Light is an affable quality d by the light, and through the transparent diffuse the medium far and wide; indeed all life is aBiVitatifque principle, origin source I will be the shining light of the ground and polished repercussed in the body; and indeed Ve ra genuine light [obeles; so that here I will be thinner than the light, so the light of the thinner ejfen I will be like light. Light is said first, which im in the middle of a shiny body Cifcitur: A fruitful light, which d in the first light, the third that 'd fruitful: and by the same table in order XI. A luminous ray of light the flow of from three Lumen not only in the center fed from all sides I bought the fuperficia body luminofi cat with broken lines, in fphara mode moments of time dif is poured XII. The shadow of the light has diminished, ma of the light that surrounds him by comparison XIII The first shadow is the first light threats, fecund of fecund, fic onwards XIV. The shadow is full, and it is said through FeSia, to which no ray of the body luminofi reaches; imperfect In truth, to which it reaches others what ray The shadow 'Phyfica' is the middle shadow the smoke that overshadows the body which imbued with lita It is an opaque body, which many fu- I will finish by breaking the smoke as well as teething. The color is dark light. for PRONUNCIATION and the Axioms. II. IV. Vf. VII. VIII. XI. XII. XIII Ux comprejja stronger j eB, which di [gregat a, it illuminates completely Violent and long dif- is poured Nature does nothing frujlra, nor from he does it in neceffaris, nor really it bursts into the fuperfluids Nature does not act disorderly, nor which he does in his operations [high: whence the Caufa order of the affairs of the world, for what reason let them trust, in order. Ariftote- read the book Phyficor house All things, by which nature, or by art, are made they are made for some reason: hence the work nature, the work of intelligence. Nature is not random, fed because he makes an end, the things of the clay order nat, giving them water. What nature takes away elsewhere, elsewhere he returned Nature's miracles are for every being entered Nature reaches the effellum fuum li in no real, and in short order. Light is the original quality of nature bringing everything into action. The light of all qualities ma, noble fima I couldn't deal with the shadow at the end of b' mine The shadow smokes the nature of the medium. Light affickur fuperficies meet' renters whose body for the rum j which the fub are the same in general, they are suitable for mutual fe to be affected: light with bodies because of the boundaries with which it ends tur, fub are the same genera e, er go To be terminated by the effect of e fi: the line is terminated by a fuo point wherefore it is affected by him. Motion I will be straight, the limit of which is thinly punished, I will be in fuperfick occurring: infinite lu the limits of these rays are infinite nita punished, that will be Juperficies which one of them fuses the quoji. XIV. Light passing through the colors from all sides is affected, and in the fuperficia, and in abundance, as far as that I was colored: why color? light they are of the same genus; therefore. they are fit to act in faith. I will be the proper color of light, and everything perpetual count to whom with nul la becomes matter, and jieque color will be Light to the dark body illapfa refieUi- you, in the middle of the true world the pano is broken to the level I would say Illuminating the colors from all sides
it is struck, and the colors are painted they radiate into the world like luxipfa as being correlative. XVIII, Every reflection of light from while the lines fenfibile s wide having a dinner part PART ONE PHOTOGRAPHY SIVE ON LUMINOUS BODIES, AND THE LIGHT FLOWING FROM THEM NATURE AND EFFECTS. CHAPTER I The primordial light, f ve of the Sun, of all the bright ones bodies first. Knowledge of many things a the origin of the mind from fenfibus ha bet first: between fen- I was a fox, and was born with a fib of nature for nobility and strength the trumpets and the bells of God gnitate, Vifus" occupies the principal place, vifui the first, and the first known, are Light, and Light man By the help of these, and the works, of all things in the hidden nature? until the end of the unknown Differences are made: whence light, the first light they are those which they offer to the first-born; of which fubftdio old men of wit the lunar smoke, the middle and the bottom, confpe&a they are surprised, they are surprised contemplated, by contemplating are philosophers fate Therefore, the photography of light, light, ad genuine foibles of wonder and contemplation it is whence& from this like form of all things, in- Let us begin with the beginnings of the flight. In this universe the nature of things is divided into three there were different kinds of bodies, bright, transparent, opaque. The first kind are the Sun, the Star, and the Fire: the fertile ones JCther, Air, Water: of the third kind are the Moon, Ter ra, Nuhes. There is no light and no darkness at all Rum is filled with horror: neither is Diaphana they have light, and no darkness, both yet they receive in faith, but let them retain neither. Bright and dark bodies are opposites, dia a cloth between the two media: she uses the light in born, so they have innate darkness: diff both of them spread out like seeds some, and the teflimony of natures; bright light, dark darkness, transparent bodies, from both diffusive powers or to use any vehicles, fe fubftituentibUs, and the seeds of both ends by turns to those who receive light and darkness. AtluEca oAou-nunc in fingulae order, rie, by which light ipfa orders all things in the world, and let us proceed. We are the wisest Architects of the world God is the Greatest of this world to build a machine, with an end do not confide in the first inflrument, nor is it suitable for generations of things He would have contrived that this, by which we live, we are burning, and we are smoking, he pointed out: namely, that vessel of the sun Lw, admirable, a kind of Velutifute Divinity v Earth. . he produced a filumacrum, the work of a truly So lem, I say, like a certain heart, ani mum, feu a certain mind, and the main one born, so to speak, of the government, and of the God, as the world would be ruled by him, the hidden things that fa- with piety, I excavate the deifications, and abyff plucked out of the darkness, they would manifest; and from this is livable, and with the material deity, inviable of that, the majesty of the lower-worldly God He established that he would be unknown to mortals. To this au the mind stirs up the mass, And with a great faith, the body is moving, and that is not in circles by the agglomeration of lights from the tropics to the tropics to move the peak, as world wide Impregnated with a wave of motion, the flight of power red would give the participant In this work indeed nature does nothing but divine providence gis needs; nor the reflection of the earthly world while the motions of the Sun vary, fed&re- fpectu I was ipfms hifce last times by varying the motions, and taking turns A is; Book L efl: what is the commandment to some in the earthly world I will produce the effects, as I will see there, they are very well organized. For if God and Nature do nothing foolish, even in the lower and smallest matters, as vi- in other words, and among the accidental they are numbered, so many; from which the strength shines forth, so that the anonnifi ccelefte quidfapiant; certainly to this one living (to speak with Plato) of God so weak, so fused, so regal foreign lars, caufas alcifsiffias, all no coelefles fiibeffe thought efl; of which I do not call it the most divine, and the first bit, intention, and end, because of which God, the Founder of the universe, was already there he ordered a seasoned fic with you, so that mana mind to such admirable gods
nat fapientite effedtus elevated, of things Con rich, and so insignificant of all, in- with a kind of comprehensible goodness cognizance of the ultimate end of things fet, he would love, and enjoy them eternally at last ret. Therefore, from this source of light, let us know conflict, and resources, first before how to proceed to the miracles of light, say-1 we're really happy First, therefore, it is complained, what happens to the bright j Idjit that nonsense, which indeed every day in- i Sol. let's protect, to his incomprehensible pul we would play with astonishment, whatever let no one touch his riches it is still given. I say, therefore, let the sun out of the fiery body fluorine concrete, cleaning pri-: light and medium filled with a kind of fpermia; from which, as it were, a certain source of light and fire in the air, heat and light are derived from women all, ideft, light vehicle qualities Convergence of angles suitable for flowing in the clay, as well as the women who belong to him what is born of the miflre, at last wonder that bile of things, than every day in this if we look at the world, they have produced variety. Therefore the sun is not a physical body Part I matice, fed phyfice, fua aperitate, inae fusing quality from fluid and leaf: that It may seem strange to anyone, undeservedly evidentifsimahujus not femelper telefco- pious and most excellent offering to us fate He will give more information. Ifle's body gneum, apperum, intequale, fertile from He became acquainted with the experience of the last few days. An experiment with solar phenomena. SIheliofcopio iftius genus, how great they contemplate the mae of virtue in others they are made of gold, in the manner of Dio At different times in So I brought his piece into the room clumsy and obfuscatum transfimiflam can you will be taken on a single plane; with no end of wonder first you will see the entire hemisphere Heterogeneous fupercy fused from the shadows, and from the shadows; from un the one who makes the sun like a sea with waves of fibers, fluttering on every side, nor that in the same way, fed at a different time fo, take different turns, today differently than yesterday and tomorrow are different from today, but have the same face, the same face you, fixed in the river by the flow of the river, will become the mouth teaches I am not all that fed many years, Hercules fane that nofterScheinerus pere whole RofiE Urfinte futilifisimo, full of hidden oblervations, in Dagata demonstrated. In this same body It also makes huge spots from the ground shadows, and opposite lights, smoke they are filled with wonder; some of which as they grow in size, they are thinned to a um the most fubtilifs bram, so that finally ipfarna the rest of the Sun's fuperficia, the adaptation of the snow in- flrumentfvix pofsis dicernere: such quan and therefore the shadow of the wind lasts for one or several days, sometimes the Mird leaves quickly disappeared: completely, sometimes accompanying, or fubfe- everything becomes hateful when the fire is hot.
Some Some even spots when they are in a thin and even shade of thinness, they then rub this ipfa into the spots minute difeontines of the punished inftar, so as between the rest of the leaves let them shine; and when he became a child the spots have been delayed, they are moving forward nevertheless I was in order through one or more day, and that in a different way, for some in the sun's common sun fades away bus, each of them into one continuous um on their way back, both of them as a penitence eat one another with frogs, that they may then vanish, from the vanishings in short, as if from the fubftance of the Sun, they would bubble up let them recover, into a new light and let them grow a fob of cattle. Yes, they are at any time the pole of one or another day disparity, compare again. True I should not be afraid of such a defect of the eye. or he thinks that the glass is acidified; it is done herecinipfa to be fed by the fire of fuperficia, femper, and every day moment in any part of the Sun indifferently to cry, an unbreakable experience so far
smiiitu- undoubtedly give to whom (Te. Who ever in for- fuforiis in huge cups of liquid f: . Foriis, when he saw what he would do, he saw genuine phenomena to understand in some way the reasons of the family will be able For as in this kind of cupping such fubin- He wanted to kill some of the fiery flue by waves and yortics why the wat does not appear to be very deep, where the soot united by the most luminous flames, I wonder a certain time of lights and shadows show fidelity, in which tiumlocum other indented fucenturien there; but molten copper, which is actually molten tur, it has a splendor like the splendor of the Sun like no other thing in the nature of things let the sun shine better. This first A. iv. to the great city of Mainz, and then to various other subjects the gates of Rome do not end here with Scheiner I don't remember being overwhelmed with stupidity, I have here given the figure of the phenomenon. But these are the shadows and the shadows name for no reason, outside the fire rem, fed from the ipfa fuperficia of the body quafl to boil, is proved by liifce accounts. Reason First, because of the sun's five variegated shades, five rostrums, five lacking in both, Solar, the fig tree is compared to one place, so to the whole world it has been found to appear. Also when A z novel Book I. Tarsus I new ones arise, or immediately certain in the breeding fu- they take complete place, this happens everywhere, at the same time and in the same place: in the same year different rums, if only at times in the same parallels; just as from being fused, and reconciled Galileo, Scheiner, Malapertius, and others in India, whom you see among those cited, Rum has become known to us through tradition, fruitful, five intervals of shadows, and fu spots stay in the long five in the wide, five mix- tim; femper those fuperficia folari inefle re they are on foot: which by no means, to use from optics It is clear that it would happen to another outside the Sun of the sphere they would stick together I said in the definition (some panfpermia filled) with the fact that the Sun does not only it becomes endowed with the quality of light, fed admitted of light Let the man have all the feminine things protect the world from the Worldly Worker soul and father of all things all in the power of female reasonings it would contain poteflates; which each conjoined with the females of the matter: of all things in they create a worldly generation. For, to re- of Ariftoteles, Sun man begets homi- But there was no light, and no movement of the fox it generates: therefore by something else; quickly through light as if carried by a vehicle and the miftum fingulif, pratffat this effect. But the main heat of the sun then no one could easily deny it, the snow that fenfu to everyone he was deprived; Some have done it wrong lint, heat, and light in the air from behind To be generated by friction. But do this, when la- eh, the friction of the haze becomes permanent, why even the light at night it is not generated in the air, that is why the nights are cold more days? Albert also taught, lu men cannot be warmed by fe, fed while from the Sun is diffused, and reaches from it to the earth, which becomes that which gives us heat and light brings However, the fire of the latter matches the fire He pushes the ticle deorfum, with a broad femper be done; why not burn that particle of fire does it push? why not a knot, seftate? why winter not the day? Why was he never fub in the North, as Does it cause heat there? They do not meet the bus, they are sharp delusions But heat does not come from the air From this it is clear that the latter were rubbed by the side; Attrition ajtid is made properly of two bodies folido- dttririoi rum fe contingentium, colliding it becomes violent: when therefore the Sun, the Moon, and the air they seem to be far removed from each other, and the air also He becomes a soft-spoken father. So it was the constant heat of the light comes, nor the light man is ever at the end of the heat, even if it is heat sometimes it happens at the end of the light, when, to wit, the matter Some were warmed by the light, if they were gone the heat remains there. And this is done because of the light everything, fed more easily the light of the Sun, nothing else it is, like fire, the fire of corporeal fires
primus, the image of the empire, primse vique lu under the threat of heat, the light has mercy on the fire we are fervent, and we are warm. Rays but his fires are from him fertile, straight, sharp you, penetrating, burning, I was struck by the sun's rays flowing molecules Whence many impenetrable Phi-. modern lofophis fan the body of Sol from tu Tepka the material of all the world's slam'x denfiflima, as within whose auguftiffimunior- ZmmIZ well only becomes the conclusion of matter, when the leaves of the world and then the whole aura of matter for an almost infinite extent folidm cleaning is the extent differfum But the denfinity of this of the body in the smoke level, from its calorific value a sharp life, and so long extended by col bind The quantity of fire for both of them tis so much that everything burns more violently, lon gius, how much more is the denfius: whence more coal, than a flame, more red-hot than iron coal; so that it is not inappropriate and full of woe Eastern countries, Hebrews, Arabs, Egyptians ptii, Perfie, as in noltra Aftronomia Hiero- The glyphic fufius will be demonftrated, the sun nothing another, which is nvfyh, that is, the whiteness of Japi dem, figuratively, as if the same mass had been gnawed they hinted at it, brought it out. But that certain matter in the body We define the amount of the sun, equating them I will return it to the material, with which, Mo lem, extensifio, the infufflation of fire is fada between waters, and that seems to be wanting to the fane harmony of proportion, as whose force im- that menfum had to permeate that space, He will receive the same amount of body it is contained in that space. A matter of some the most elegant fane of worldliness the work of the same is greatly explained by the offense dunt: God, indeed, put the whole world together in almost the same way that children bubble out of water, and fmegmate was expelled by air exfufflation so much; so, however, as God in the circumference retain a drop of water on the rim of the lower bubble rite A very beautiful comparison, to which or ipfe Sapiens seems relpexiffe, while he says i. chap. Because as a moment the dew of the Antelucani, which fell upon the earth. We said in the definition of the Sun, the body of the Sun is close (physic, not mathe round mat, as many want. who for in the same way Terra Athmofphaera fua con- ftans, unequal vapors from inhalations-and it is surrounded by a coat, and has various parts fpofitiones, -for in some places it is denfam, in another it is fubtile thin, everywhere varying qualities of strength which we experience as being impregnated with mifcella; in others quo que, in other places another, and another, for par the nature and condition of the evaporating the tall city should be afraid of the sun rofphgra. Sunday night roftbxnt. rofphgra fua to blow up in inquali, to use ex perpe your spots, smoke, fog, light and the larumquein fuperficienunc ebul living, now again vanishing viciffi- He taught me the unbreakable experience. But so much so that the solar body was blown up by the ocean with the incessant movement and agitation of the fire to be burned, which is indeed a fic driven for eva the diverse nature of the solar region also in the nature of things no one will doubt which of the most difficult people was the most intelligent contemplated For she is clean of all things the same system of our bodies; as what about We say the earth, the sun, the moon, and cazterifque. It should be said of the planet: diversity'ineofo- light is found: that each of these bodies, to use the different nature of the strong cfl fuaeffphmramfundet I say nothing more: who But the miracles of Hercfolius were more difficult plate, it is no doubt easy for the Comets to enter luperiorif and yesterday's country of origin he will see them. Mutti also Philophophus while the effects of some of the intruding hidden in the heavens in many places they will add at random, more fully to me, this is the day of the Sun pyrophceram, and each of them confided various effects they have gone astray, they will perish. Further, the powers of the sun are light, and heat, and I was a woman of all things from the light, and in my heart the pore brought down here, and heated by the heat, that in the storehouse of things, and of the generation of things the mistress of all For the light of his figs the bearer of women's affairs; do the same efl menfura, number, fomes. While
it illuminates the bodies of the whole universe both, passing through them, count with heat and fe he prepares, then gathers, cleans, and moves them it penetrates, nourishes, increases, completes, renews vat, vivifies, containing all things, content from all, so that all bodies should use him generator, motor, heater the matter, to use as an illuminator, to use in fine, give life they are asking for a tore, and for each of them a converator. For everything flows into these bodies, indi- Thotijjimm Corporum Ccrtejlium that with the manifest powers of light, then secret and incorporeal actions; as or to hafce the admirable qualities of the Sun The wise man may be seen briefly, when he says: drAj? (IggyjHa; uitTttot For what cannot be done by fire rat to be exterminated he was lifted up and lost. So the truth of the sun is iliflru- men are light, heat, woman to that the things that are in the world must be realized. Ari- floaters when he cannot deny the light of the Sun, he denied the heat, and for it the fubfti he protects, and said the sun to act by light and movement? in the lower hgc; But we also moved We give to the sun, not to the air or the water. or the movement of the earth destroys it, fed by that of the Sun it becomes a sort of fourth influence, where those three, light, heat, woman, where whenever he goes, he should carry the feces around, and Hylos let them fill all the worlds, transparent indeed corporal light, heat; but the heat is dark matter, and women, with heat in the darkest recesses the shadows of the bodies as if attacking you I left to cry. And that the Sun may have wondrous powers the bile of the whole body is born of the birth of the world Communicate more fairly and freely with the bodies re pofTet; here we have made the Worker of nature him about his own axis, the day of the year which fpacio to the motions of the day and year from he wanted to be moved in an organized manner (which held by the last hifce tem the pores of Lyncei Aflronomis at last inno- tuit) that fic nullaparseflet, qu? so necefia with the fruitful support of light return With the sun's rays it is most effective to prevent continuous intense heat fione terr messeret: Athmoffhram ex ha with earthly disputes, and with watery vapors He wished to set up, excited by the action of the Sun, as in the more so, as if it were a shallow proportion with a kind of heat intensifies the world fill the universe All that for the better be understood, it is done. day CHAPTER II. T)e triple action of the Sun, direQa, reflected, &refra3a. One merges from each At the point of the sun, he turned three times I will turn the ram I put someone back to measure two rays cular, at any rate the flower is carried at the beginning as well through Athemophra, rather than through the air we teach in the art of Anoclaflic: And we call this the caufa of the diversity of heat in divers climates: for be the reft of fuperficia He lay down on the ground, no doubt about the action he will exercise the strongest; bow down to the top it will make the heat so much more effective, how much angle, which with the fuperfici he flew, he was nearer to the corner, when A ver Book I but the East Sun, or the meridian ray in falling, in obj ccbi fuperficiei terreftris heart The pores are normally set up in the same profuse system let it not fall, with which the fubfphatrarefia in the middle of the sky conflict at the top; who deserves to be surprised Why do the sun's rays shine on these mountains? walls of towers, temples, and houses nor the pyramids, the columns that nor ill erected fuperficies rays fuos im sending, not the same effect, quemfub ffaera make it right? Refponde, this us ef having made a cup of coffee, the rays of the sun were in vain gio ne, feuAthmofphera, refracted, what three times a ram clothed like a fine garment he shields the phcebgis from the arrows so violently Their attack is more intense for different reasons the obliquity of the gods, or dicffi Athmofphg- it resounds with rarity and tenacity, and so the amount of refraction is saved rites, or diaphanous teeth; dullness but the opacity of the transparent rays is preserved. The military bum therefore m Athmolphgra both re- (part L should perish, it is not surprising, if only in Whence it is evident that there is no truth Eflet Athmofphgra, normal mountains ledges, to use all erected normally
you will make the same profuse heat flexures, which the sun meridians nut, and vertical, reflects from the ground. Therefore, the situation He makes it oblique, like the sun's ray on the horizon of victory nut in ifta Athmolphgra long between infi- it stinks; and therefore humid vapidg {rain in fact, he transports a medium, a great deal of light and force goris, ardorif as dull, habetatuf- that he loses. Otherwise it would be done, the earth is close to the Sun no doubt it would be uninhabitable; as or from this the admirable rock of God the Most Great I will give in administration and confervation you will see the world, Scadmireris. The truth about hu jufmodi naturtcpradigio, and of Athmo- fphras utilitas, vi de more in art noltra Anaclaftica Of which, if I am not mistaken, it is plain refracted rays of the Sun in the compaction of the earth utility Further, when the Sun's shadow terr? from the opposite denfiflamasfemper somewhere on the planet ob- he founds darkness, Sc the earth is so affected by the light of Neceflary let him vent, lest divine providence the poor man loves to quip, all of them this one Thotijfimm Corporum Cadefiium this lack of light as a ray He wanted to pay back the sun's reflected play. While enm uce ua dnmenfa oppofita Lunx, She illuminates the bodies of the torpid and feeble changes, shared, as if from a kind of fpectrum, inverted and shrouded in knots of mist Terrified face shaking, what else is the snow village a sort of sun's work with light, then by reflected heat, thus inevitable neceffka- Are you demanding by nature? Look at the picture a ram here propped up in which the radiant light C B A both the earth, and the moon, and the rest of the earth it strikes the opposite part of the earth recuperating in the shade, there moderated the heat and in the light of the absent Sun he takes turns here and there for the various shared mifcelias of virtue? it produces various effulgences. CHAPTER III. Woe to the wonderful work of the Sun: likewise of the caufis, and the ejfeShbus of the Maculars and the famous Jalarius. Ytilitiu ex by the motion of the Sun. U M Solis in the world in credible, and almost divine for the force is made by the Sun all movement, &life, convervation, coele- river and earth decorated so much so that you will contemplate more closely, this more in that in come miracles, befitting the philophophus of the tree tror, all natures thefaurus to be rhymed dogmas appropriate to such a miracle of Prof render Fixed, therefore, the order that is made, Soleflatuto far away the government of this earthly world another, the most turbulent breath was quick a tower, nor a globe, inhabited everywhere bile, nor Athmofphasras difpofition, as we now experience the same, because of be of the sun, and everything that grows, I will be absent. From these things I the goodness of divine providence shines forth that to this faith the movement with length the day, then the year of latitude, him- that he has become eccentric, as he tus diversity athmofphasra to xquabile mediocrity, and accomodating to human beings should be digested at a moderate temperature: for this seasons, winter, summer, autumn, etc We have real relationships, not careers years, I mean, weeks, or not we cross the days, the diversity of which one and the same as the Sun, which is present and absent makes Therefore, the power of the Sun on the terrestrial globe a divine providence is given by the movement of places daily and yearly and the bearer of hidden faculties. Don't verdilfdem femper radiis Iblaribus terra fe He would laugh, nor would the other body be moved to Stel turn over, a part would seem to be idle; divine the inclination of the sun proper to the body, ab to all the others he put in motions, 'dfmolTso fngulis (as from the irre- Us he fuses with fragile experiences) of the twenty days, about one around the center he would make his own revolution, hu the right of conversion to the favor of whatever light whatever virtue it contains, fucceffive so in the earth, than the universal C weapon, and so He would pour out his faith in abundance. And indeed this circulation of the Sun three times rx the grace given by the Founder, from him it is clear that the ipfa is not fimplici, fed annual cir by the conduction of the movable axis, about which the former movement will be carried, rolled; by which it is done, as Sol
cherry trees boreal fumity, preffio let him sweep over the earth at the same time, and from the same force the ciffitudinaria of the poles, and the axis of the mob with the apparition of the thing, and the same must be concealed below gat: what a dizzying balance to use There is also no reason for the difficulty of the earth's faCla it must not be doubted, for from this it is done, according to luflrations, with which the whole Universe per- luflrat, the earth uses another, and another femper light fo larius, so also other, and other virtues of folly ri is undoubtedly imbued with what kind of flu it is surprising how much it is always advanced yours is that of the mutual spots and stars conjun&lone, feparation, departure return. For if the shadow of the Moon in the eclipfi be so much- D(. maci, M alter the earth as much as the alteration nor will he produce the Sun in the lower regions we believe that those who are or rum, and the tantx of the shadows from the great tudinis, as Lunx terrx fuperficiem Why is he allowed to be seen eclipsed? When you there the sun was now like a kind of speck lamenting with the stretch of his arms, with a fluttering veil all fair, bright, calm and laughing, just like the flames soon it appears to spew out black soot; surely ifla into the ground to act in different ways, the effects of dif- to produce offspring, reason teaches, with this force in the course of time, they will vary the light of the Sun let them give, promote, increase, and decrease; which Book I with which change, the foyer was finished in ter-1 ras, fublunaria influx ncceffe to be changed it is But H: cc is so afraid to have it, of all things the aba of the pasnefeculorum prove aftronomic. From here the years are more than others we experience tics; quos Aftrologists in various places to the adfpefts of the nets, we are more true to this fo We will add to the variety of the phenomenon for a great number of boiling leaves escaped an abundance of reasons is accumulated, it cannot be done, without light and heat, the less effective he can act three times in these inferiors, violently BiflorU vt- ter impediant. Certainly Suetonius at that time nd in which Julius Cedar was slaughtered, about So for a long time I live as a material He delivers a kind of craflam and soot. At the time also of the Juftinian Emperor the whole year the sun or a kind of veil he was so blinded that he shone so little, and so blinded in fact, so that it seemed to be turned into the moon. See Aldover's book about prodigies offer the Arabs run not far from the prodigy of the Sun annoHegiras just as in Aftro- Logiafua reports Hael: that great things defoliation has been done. At Paul the Deacon whether we read in the year days fpacio Ccelus most fereno, defkcato thus luxuriate in obscurity, so as not to spread darkness to the world would shed What a huge obscurity Comet was also made. Cornelius Genfma in fua Cofmo critical reports in the year The fire of the sun is like a muddy color the breath of all Europe: fpa of many days cio comparuifle: that phenomenon, Comet civil commotions they are Finally, in a little before the war the Swedish light, the whole year's curfew, fire Tarsus L I have a huge macular boil suffered, both in Germany and abroad Scheinero Rome: he was overwhelmed. How much all fi Aftronomi should note carefully, for- fan from such phenomena compared to fublunars, noya aphtrology, that planetarium is much more familiar to the common people, seasoned poffet. In Luna Cy fatus nofter Athmofphg- ram quoquefive vaporous exhalation, in of the eclipse of the Sun of the year ipfo the birthday of the Lord he noted that day. I do not doubt the same in the rest to touch the groups of planets, which use cen you diverge from the center of the universe, so you diverge the fphasras of exhalation From whom indeed, I am not mistaken. comets with fu- before and below the moon to light up, the nova and it is manifestly clear from the stars of Geneva. There is much in this passage about the manner in which the Sun will make its comets teriqueplanet? exhalation holes oria- they found the ras, in the same way that the Comets were born poffint; I will bring the drink. True when not He becomes a wise man, all that is around him the particulars of both the effedtuum ra tions to touch the variables in an infinite number of ways they burst out at random, hence the givens
here is just a handful of phenomena mtokov infinuarevolui, other comments re the judge; fed elsewhere forfan of this fufius We will open our opinion, where hofce I did not difplicuiffe understand our differences river You see, then, how much of this new in the latest times found the pheno- men, of the mysteries in Philofophy, how much field is open The truth is not let's just say by the way, nature, and efficiency, by which reason all this through let them become heat, it is already cooling, so to speak. CHAPTER IV. T major in this clean not by the work of things, indeed and the variety of elu- the divine willed it to cease several providences in bodies in this world, fin- the appetite is diverse and divergent imbued with qualities such as these pregnant with the fruitful rays of the Sun, femi and does it shine through the light of the flower like a thing? a bent ray brought down to earth, ibid to generate new combinations of things they were planning In order to make this more comfortable ret, the moon around the earth, and the planets around He wanted to turn the sun like a center, so that the rays received from the Sun are transferred to the earth they would shed a long time. For indeed the heart was taught The brightness of the sun is not equal to the brilliance of the stars they draw thin, fed and mellow in fe, they dye with native fua property; it becomes, as fe- qualities minal sun created virtues transparent ojkndmt. the rays propagated into the said bodies, there when of the planets and the casters I trusted in virtue You give yourself to each particular woman, and then through ray reflected to the ground, then through the direct then refracted into the atmosphere acting very differently, too, eof- that innumerable effeffus near the earth: filled with a kind of military, difpofi- tion, and produce capacity. That but the tincture ifta should be so fefe, from ipfo- with various colored lights, such as Sa leaden turn, Tuesday fiery, Friday ar gentea, Io force is clear, &ferenapatet: how color Tara 'here water? Moon faces fhotifims of the Hearts fcekjilum Do not eat the variety of colors from the light of the Sun, ex co is made For if they came from the Sun At the same time, all of them are clearly of the same color they would be imbued with that, and by one change all mu they would be tarred Nor does it come from the middle It is clear that the dyes were dyed in everything they burn in place, fat, and time: whence exinfi-, tis ipforum with the colors of the coming sun to infect the earth, and thence to the earth, as it was said to do is, together with the end qualities according to Pro- the announcement to reverberate, and finally di- the same (inefficient as a squeegee). flowers in different colored glasses let's believe the planes, in which: they fall, the lights are hidden) it is absolutely ridiculous. But this one into the lands influence varies from acceflii ipforum, I am not afraid of the sun as well as of the earth not with a different fit with the reflection of Cceli, then ho of the earth's horizon, the dust of which refraction irradiated in a humid environment of those proceeding in part, various also quality modifications, no one it must be doubted. Hence not too much radiation foliar ceftus intensity Terra clifiolve return, a certain land of Ethetea as with Plutarch says The moon, like water a certain body for innumerable virtues He poured out his riches against the sun, whose refreshment rays refracted, tempered, and proper let the women of the earth be shared, but not for you a small vessel, a fetus to be caught. Ha but the two bodies bent, the earth between them, And all that lunar land, great to fe the affection with which the other loves the other, they favor each other, and the influence of which and both parties both live and confer they are boiled, then they are changed; why and maria no Itraad Luno afpe. ctus to be affected in various ways, no he needs teftimony, since he has nothing more Here, however, everything can be done in the least possible way the greatest between her, fympathy LJc, however, is not a fan of fympathy mm of force, then added suitability but they will meet with strength tia i illit, when for the reason of the cftcntke of the matter the Powers in- feint and from her come, and for ratindnevi- rium's actions are also given, it becomes necefe.
For when the body of the Moon becomes close, noftre profus fimile, denfum opaque; c0, 'i, isLm'h let the rays of the sun shine drank, fed shared strength imbibed, to us reflected the same woman He will eat by the influx, the most prosperous Archite He was fashioned by that skill, so that he was incomparable He would repace the earth to his men, and for a divers fit wing also and other action if he were to strike the same with great intensity, and in about the needy generations by nature would promote rum. We have said that the moon is the heart the pus of the beasts, and the protuberance of the earth; because from the various offerings made by Lynceus Philo- It was marked by the sea of fire, in the moon of the sea what is the montofum, and what is the vatofom; what experience will teach you how to move. The experiment of Thmomen Lunaris. Luna full of better quality tube take the phtronomic, which the ferena you, air vapors empty to the moon full at first, then in did you! you will see a strange moon, ex a face fused with shadows and shadows, nort iO Book I fecus, and of the Sun in our proceeding we said: this folly with difcrimin, that the torch, ma the stars in the Sun are perpetually unconfined; Lunavero perpetually where the ipfis fimiies, im moved: you would say that you are expanding a certain sea to look at the tracts of the earth. You see here in the bright midst as in the ocean where I will give the infulas far and wide around: vi goddesses in some places also as some gaps shadows, from the center of which I shine the rays are diffused: you will also note in ex- Lun ft- tremo Lunaris difici limbo nefcio quid, tremo Oesmira a mule you would say a smoky exhalation, and thence many of the land of the Lynceians cleft; They call it Athmofphxra. In the same limbo you will look with no end of wonder, Part I The moon turns almost as if it had erupted some fcopulos, concatenator mon the ranks of these Who all how A certain Neapolitan artist, and we are here Romx, not a female of the most excellent pipes We present the following figure. Ex with which obfervations between fe We cannot bring anything else, but the moon Luri noftrx I saw a tall woman, a body cet from the water and the earth endowed with innumerable hidden women the faculties which the sun's rays miftx, in ter ra produce that multitude of things, which indeed we marvel at every day; no one like that the reason of the miflion is easy with the mind let him begin stuck in the mud marriage Luccm or that intense in ra I trust in the gods, we think of nothing else, but the most prominent part of the moon I will finish; the rays of the Sun before the outer parts reflecting more strongly. If we elf in the Lunar body I would certainly say, says i Ul of the manner of the mountains, of what kind are the Alps, Inaccefa of the Pyrenees, the Andes, and the Caucafe yoke, covered with perpetual snow and ice, dung lem to us in the Lunar globe conflicting lu reflection For I can scarcely say how they reflect intensely as in while Aetnam I would fight in the mountains of Calabria The people around me are not the end of the pleasure I remember obfervaffe. But Elie's eminence a part of the lunar body, the shadow around cumfufa declares fate. But these are noftrx he conjectures, with whom I will do something lius brought us let's get dirty True; when the time comes and the like in the other Magnetic World hujufmodiMagnetifmoSolis, Lunx, ter- rx We will deliver the earthen exprofeffo; We sent the leader back. Moreover, the rest of Planetx also received Sun rays for fux naturx condition mo they build, and they are buried in the earthly body they impart virtues. For almost all lu- menSoliaccepted report, what you interred they let go, not as fpecifically ground, polished fed as the Moon, as Venus, Jupiter, Saturn, and other roofed bodies illuminated by the Sun. I said, ceiling bodies, because experience He taught the bodies of the planets not at all polished; fed as close as possible, divided broken, with various spots and shadows pata flat, consequently heterogeneous; natures howl how great is the effect of the necephalarium
diversity is completed, Jupiter's faithful fubfe in the following figure Bononia; in The Lyncei transfer the chicken to me. Satur- Such is the life of Jupiter of Bononia, in the year
in places of rgifivetri as the figure teaches: which; all the different composition of the latter they teach the miscellany. The figures mentioned I have brought the planets to be placed here. On such a day z8. Odtob. o. November at the same hour Thotijfimm Corporum Codeftmm but also to many body shape; is alive Saturnusjverd is alive in this figure. From which phenomenon it clearly appears, their bodies are not perfectly spherical, nor bright from fe, fed apera, uneven, con- bs which; while they soak up the sun's light, imbued with various virtues, to our beat them to the limits determined by the Author of nature intent And fic clear every ccdeftem lu cem from the whole universe of the earthly world where and at last I was just ignorant, so larem, five immediate from the sun, five through right ray, &refracted; five mediated through the sheets, through the ray quickly reflected. This, indeed, in the matter of light, is much effected She is weaker than that, yet in respect of virtue active something special from the property la; to bring down the stool, to which it is sure to fuse; as or from here the rapid influence of the fcaturi aguofcas some gin. For a long time from perdition is discovered, the rising sun with Ardturus you will tempt, with Aquila ni you will, with Andromeda a turbulent time, with Aphelus the perturbations of the air rains, thunders, with Caneferenitatem, St heat, with Hercules the winds, with Hya heavy rains, with other qualities of air to move with impreff: that with a blow let us see the seasons of the year surely into the wandering planets, another other than the modification of forces in obtaining in another and another place, folas caufa con should not be cast. Therefore into the Sun, and indeed I am that part of the Sun, the fire of fire, that of Certorum In the annual movement around the proper group I was the axis of the fee surrounded, ftellse a certain femininity f3Zi a certain nature with that part of the sun is ob- eft to him to be born is opposed Whence it is not surprising, in- axis fr0' finite variety of influences, whether in- by no means comprehended by human genius I wish to be brought down into these lower parts, to burn the parts of cloths with parts of one and another power it will be clear to the combiner. Whence another one power in the perigees, another in the apogees, another in the middle longitudes, in others of the Zodiac No one can get the planets in the places that are connected to each other He must doubt it, and we are more afraid of it We will explain hierophytical aflrology.
G Book Tarsus I CHAPTER V Of fire, and bodies of the night light, and produBion heat in the world UCE cceleili perpenfa already to the earthly light I say fire, defcen- let us see what is it done? Ariftoteles To- pico three of his fpecies He concluded with these words: i 'Sbv eriCjsi tzv OTfos, 'Otia u Cj, ji, pui, wv; St. It is not one piece fire: for Jpe cie eji anthrax (coal) is another flame, Cfl light, each one of them came out of fire smelling These three kinds of fire before Ariftote- Plato in Timo, &poth him his di- The pupil Theophratus confirmed; that yet there is no reason to throw the species into the fire they are able to meet. For if fire anthrax it is done, it will be lit; be kindled, it will shine; fi lu ceat, lower fimul, and more distant lights bit and together with this illumination ae He will heat the matter with heat: all things are tested he protested against the facts. It is clear, then, that the fire is fublu- do not burn coal. Nor the flame effet can: for fi flame becomes the element fire, warms; fi heats, burns; become a fire he said, burned, and fled; fedhc everything by no means invite us to the elemental fire they deny therefore there is no flame. Nor the light of God it is possible; for it would shine, it would eat light, and let him enlighten us, in the same way, in the absence of the Sun he would most of all be fooled: he fed everything here they are opposed to the fens; therefore, the fub is concave Lu there is no fire of this, which Ariftoteles decripfit, condition, fed from confutudi- not so much, it seems, to call him fire fcilicet, the fubtiliest part of the air. About this
He rejoices in the fire, when the body does not become bright, we do not treat it at all, we are fed up with the fire the sword, which Ariftot sou (tmv, the wind blows incense, others burn smoke they call it: therefore it is smoke; therefore from I fear; be made of moist, hot; therefore, it must be therefore not at all complex, nor complete an element of power Another, then, was born The nature of things must be defined by fire, which we are in we allude to the preceding ones, that in Mun we will declare the fufms of our land. Fire, therefore, is nothing else than the air from the force of two bodies kindled by the fire, whose ardor burned the embers of the bilious material caught in the flame he goes, let the flame be light on all sides it helps and this is that bright heart The fiery pus was fublunate in the darkness with the frogs the only foliation, the domestic Sun. illuminator of nights and darkness, Solis, Lun vicar no less than ce the three fires were narrated by Necefalius, whose light we used as a homogeneous light, so the same He will also have qualities. But how does he exist in nature? let it be produced, and perish, I will say while ell It must be said, therefore, first, the air in ma the greatest rarity was finally brought down by fire to make: it is rarefied by motion, but by motion it is made by the collision of two bodies, or play of opposites, which they call antiperiftafim. In the first way the fire is drawn from the ferns, the wheel with a strong, continuous movement of heat The axes of the incense are kindled and burned. Hac some skill America two chickens wooden bus licks licks of whom you whether within al flu flu ram for so long go around there, until flame with begin, pre- three times no other fire the gods know ra tion, ex experience I am not mistaken, a said to rotate break dodti The same fire by the friction of the laurel wood, and the ivy is stirred up tefte Plinius: the antiperiftafi is also accented it is given, and I make most of the fiery things in the air impref- we see it being done. Hence the foolish fire try, missing goats, falling faiths, Ca- ftor& Pollux, and his daughters, of whom see Meteorologists. But the air is so much easier to in- it is flaming, the more futile. Hence in An- in the mountains of Peru and Chile throughout the whole territory rare in the lofty world, the air is so fubtiliseft, c' so that almost no one gets them with impunity, and the end of the spirit lack of tranfeat: so much air there to it has a difpofition of inflammation, as or by a slight movement, and by the breath it becomes inflamed. Vi goddesses rPhotijfimtwi Corpomm Coekfilum. goddesses are not unfrequently travelers at this time all the fiery mountains, the horses also beasts with their mouths and noses, and the flames of fire tes: how paradoxical it may seem to someone fent, nifi P. Alplionfo 'Dualle Procura tore Province; Chilenfis Society Jefu culato tefte, as if he had made that journey through the Andes He had done it several times, orally, while she was doing this When I write, I would have been confirmed Indeed, there is no other reason for this, since it is ex I am fat, and I eat both men and women with the breath of the mentors, and with the fubtiliffim air by friction the toque is very easily lit, and inflammation not faeces as in fuprema matter driven by the force of the winds, We see the fiery imprefs of yesterday. True of the admirable nature of these mountains by property from the proffessional world How do we treat a libterrane? However, there is one problem here tdor fj cults torture us the most: for what reason which annually i, x t so that the heat of the wood is produced by the friction of the wood produce rum, or stone. Some want him produced by virtual heat in the latent mixture; Fed this cannot be when sometimes from a mixture cold smoke is produced, heat also illevirtual sign, an accident he cannot reach his feet. Some vo the rarity of the folly, which the movement causes in body rubbed; for we see bodies where They are more leafy than other parts of the country to eat jore, as Chalybs more than wood; and the harder the stones, the more they were brought to the fire a hundred more suitable: and no other of the caufa this happens because the snow is between these air ma the gis is worn and becomes rarer: which does not happen through the leaf
iiorreditur, condenfatur, fed per ve- a heavy thrust, with which one part is ridden lie is driven out and condemned to another, whence then the propellant part, because of the flight of the void the other side with such a force that he warms it it attracts. Moreover, the fire is more easily excited in the corners, than in the middle of the stone, because he is more certain and more determined; either because it cools more easily, or because it is a smaller part is filed Because, however, it is difficult to con to begin with how the attrition, which; there is a movement heat, produce heat abundantly, and rare effectively producing heat He is careful: for he does not hesitate to say the heat to have connection proportion with rarely, when he found something fertile He resides in the heavens with extreme rarity, and in the fublunar it becomes the effect of heat: and to that end this phenomenon the tent does not seem to work. They are not missing they would like to find the unmoved local heathen the fact that in the middle the parts less hot the hot ones are deflected, the hot ones are warmer fictions, in which I therefore concentrate ca lor is detected, and produced, by
which is transferred to the adjacent body. For every time I sent two corporafolidas to my hair cem meet in the middle, where more ap the closer they come, the more the air between foot, this is, they are more afraid, there are the more crafty parts of it advents; rae, namely, pilgrim imprefions as the more denfg, the more they prevent the occurrence the smoke of those bodies, and stronger from them they are pushed and pushed back rim cleaner defecating parts air, in which the heat prevails, near the river let nature flow, and become a little warm from the outsiders it was impreffions fublatum, to them the oar tis, the inflated priest from his own form they bring back the natural emanation of le, fic with the obstacles removed it will be perceived intensely heat in these purer parts. But in the heart through the pores of the ipfi locally the heat of the movement of the sometimes fire is produced. The real us We say, first, I did not produce fire from the parts of the air, fed from of stone, of wood, and of wood Do not make an efficient cup of air nature, fed or directly the Author na ture; , or the light ccelefte, local motion by difpo- concurring with each other. For we see from on the one hand, by means of the attrition of a hard stone the thinnest parts of the ipfius fubftantas rendered fire be generated: on the other hand make none f ufficient, proximate, principal ta I am concerned about the issue of generation: for not air, as ex It is clear to you: not a bruised body, otherwise I would like to be deftruded, &fuftantia- a liter instead would lead to something difficult for us, which caufefublunari determined; contradicts: no finally, local movement, rarity, denfinity; when a little before oftenfum it becomes them difpofitively tan then to run together Therefore fly through the light. But the difpofition is done in such a way at the first movement local, the impulfa of the worn bodies the tension of the strap is weakened. Then at last by change the form is either completely corrupted; because when she was so small, she was thin and frail matter cannot be congealed; or so weak it is said that I am in the fuo effete proper qualities it is not worth it to freeze any more. Finally ma- Mottm p those things, either in polished form, or with the form of duBion I am already weak, because of the artificiality, and the exlors of the heat the remaining predominance of the fire, the greater it has a tendency to fire, rather than to anything else; therefore in such a difpofition be fed by the lights of the celeftian bodies but the fire is introduced. Although it is also said can cause friction to dissipate heat through di- greater ftantia between the parts, either of the air, or of another body, by negation tix from the parts of the body contained more in three times to those who are in need, and at the demand of that person or to God, or from the light of the celestial bodies B the same Book I with the same air immediately rarefied, me given that rarity, sometimes then from the ipfo the air was produced; when it is easy the air is first rarefied, and the heat is first fired drink so that while I threw the whistle I was fired with heat it burns, and burns quickly from the air liter concurrently Obviously, then, friction
to produce heat in no other way than. because from a natural connection with heat fiction, moves to the demand of that or the nearest natural cavity, it is found or light; it becomes quality, not poife by faith to produce heat the matter For the second quality is from the first a mixture of rum qualities, supporting the first unable to produce; fed to produce heat tum occurs naturally. But the light is trickier forfan how difficult it was to match. Why ad let us return to the fire of nofte: which they a little we would trust more attentively, perhaps more in him jgnif next, let's break out worthy of admiration. First pnetates. He opens the purse for us, all the darkness is light pushing away Secondly, the flame does not pass through anything remaining, fed merely fucceflivum being efl, almost the most important moments in the world the smoke, that it may perish, is renewed, that it may be moved by foot it rained, and not the stool and the river, tefle Ariftotele, the same and the different are perpetually born, perishes. Whence also the light, when it is made and to be held together by the flame: let it hang, it fades and vanishes forever. And this is so faintly ipfemusus, e. g. of candles He said, "He who had his origin from the flame. beat, flying smoke, and material flame: he will also fly away. When, then, the flame let the femper remain of about the same size, if something flies out of it from somewhere else it must be filled: therefore it is perpetually brown. Corollary of the Flame, From what has been said, to the flame: production feet of heat; but nothing in I fanned the flame, which turned into vapors, and exhalations are not refollable ipfa expe He teaches laughter. For when parts of the flame: fibi that they should be perpetually dying, that which in Flam the mam is refolled, so weak, that the parts are more femper they desire to die with others, and perish the flame: parts to reflaurare. But what it cannot be converted into vapors and exhalations of course, their parts do not polish fur- let the smoke fly away, and let not the place of the flames reach them ma: to occupy a part; whence the gold, and me the rest, flame production due to fictitious! Part I. they do not boil the state. Therefore, the matter in order to be inflamed, they must have, no even though he was hot, he was fed fat, he was nofam, vifcida, such as one would eat in oils, and the fifth efferent ones. Heat, too, to the fiam-nott datr mccproductionem neceflarius efl; , with the end with that there is no rarefaction, no rarefaction at the end the lightness of the body, the lightness of the end, no flame: in the fuperna afcenfio it becomes poflible; un de riden There are gods who are to be given a cold flame they bring a dike. It is evident that the conversion of the thing into a flame mamnonfubftantialem, fed accidental so much as change, when the light of the matter is tmoefi. the feprorfus should have the same way to the flame, as water to the ice, which: etfi divcrfe they see tur, however, the snow is not one water: eflentia efl ac. diverge accidentally. The same can be said about oil, sulfur, wax, oil, etc. weak But you will say that the emphasis is wrong: I have indeed re-rolled the ice into the water, no woe ro flame into inflammable material. But I deny that it is a fluke; for the flame of I was brought back again into wax, I give unbreakable chemical experience cent, which security in metal, whence for he said, Mercury flying away, ceruflam, put it back into the lead cant. I also know the admirable fecundity with which it is moist ex inflamed: left with the confusion of the matter let it be reflected in the hair; so from vegetables to re-flourish vegetables by chemical art pofluht, whose mention in the art of Magneti- and we do, with many experiments, both in The magic of light and shadow, both in the world froffubterraneo, the fire plucked from the plants, and feminized the plant from which fal was produced reproducible let's breathe So the argument is clear. It is evident in the third place, the extinction of the flame (which: or the contrary: with water, with fupereffifion, or with a blow, a rush of winds, a whirlwind not, and it is done in other ways) protection from the spread of fire through me for a long time: for light is like a kind of heat fspecies, qua: for the diversity of complexions he can occupy a thousand modes of things.
That which is granted to the snow, is confined to nothing he can, why the light changes its color, fi factura af shine? why colors change the light, fi con are they founded? Why do colored glasses dye? As the reason of these will be afflicted, fub of the same kind light and heat are to be placed next, of whom the bus is more dangerous. But now to Ani the nature of evil lights branch C Suhlimarittm.
T)e cPhotijmo Animalium. Or Created in light of eAnimals. . I. On the Light of Cincindelari Incindela, Greek mp- Kunuts, fiooy 5s? wi5p, rniaTi AdeftBsh. e. animalvo- faintly shining in the dark. By Hephychius Cantharis it is said iStxMMmiiMiw Your xafSag}t, shining with a note of the beetle, from which many efcarabaeorumge They have decided to spin it, Varrinus in luo jLcxico KitfffllUftf ontctm tiip om'cu patW7i{ ivyyoi he calls domestic lamps. The Latins called it now I'm going to burn it, now I'm going to burn it, now I'm going to burn it nitella, fubinde lucula, or firefly they call it is wet, shining at night, and it is of a double kind vnjfo, this is feathered, and; Vefcriptio fme pennis. A chapter from the fupremaparte merciless ceu cucujj0 a kind of shield was thrown, in having a reclining form all covered tur, fucci, as a sheath: of color: its capital divide the small black into two lumps fpofitus, with jet-colored eyes; al the vulture has a ring with many branches a stream, at the end of which is a drop; roughly fire inftar pellucida: , fed from bright fiery to men of, tending to a light blue I will never become a bride, it is made of silver and gold color They are made especially then, when I checked my stomach for that transparent liquid The end of the clearance is approaching. On the back, and on the chest or, rather, the belly of the fire shines inftar. No Pli seems to have carefully entrusted this to fate nius, and those who, when they are offended, soon pen the gap between the spine and the lock to shine, now I think they are overshadowed. While I I would live in Malta, and there would be a huge nodtu lu I would detect a multitude of hundreds, I collected a large number of them, as na I would offer them a tower, and light it animate mode: the origin was more closely related: and noted, the little animal volunteered, so to speak I will say, by motion, now to withdraw, now to throw out that bright as friends, or He despised the predominance of his enemies; for even He drew back the lick and the lace, and he was thirsty a little while back I will deal with 'produce' he ate the material, and even more so, when many c kindles: , at the end of the lamps flmul they were placed, which the ambitious glory of the light ge- smelling, the ornament of the shining humor was fuberba he exercised these or the most; you would say that to be affected, to go around Nor is nature in such a way by a wonderful projection of light, the idle cenferide bet First of all, the time of maturity of the state of barley, and the last: of the faction, in which a thousand nimJ and the panic of the wild, indicates: , of which fiffifj Plinius was in a beautiful fashion: Already Vergi-Us lias said, he had made notable groups in heaven, He did not, however, destroy the contents of these as he did others crying out: why are you looking at the sky, farmer, why are you Where are you looking for? I will tell you in a shorter time munt nobles: Behold thee among thy herbs special ftellas, and eafque vefpere cjj push from the work by sighing at the joining, and lest you should pass by a miracle, I am flattered; see at the end that the fire of the daughter's wings shines the night? Mantuan also baptized of them sings: In the end, we tranfegimusillam ludiisgyem. Spring has returned, the vine is already green, and the vine is sprouting. Ceres, already chopped, already thinks of the barley meffor: The wings of the Lampyrides fly in the night. Prteterea with many animals in e-Cw fcam is sought, in no other inermeanimalcu- pteditffni. Now with the defense, let the snow fall in this light it seems ifle; for this fiery torch, I will give the enemy, v. to wash away some object with a shield so that, while they are thinking of fire, it will burn away their desires, and it forces him to turn away from hunting. But not from the enemy cis of certain animals into it his own light is betrayed to the unfaithful seekers, the unfaithfulness of these, not in any other kind of weapons, which he eludes by a willful abduction of light: Until then, the lamp and lamp are held in the hand bris, with which he runs with an inoffensive foot. lorica
against the lioftes How do you face this spring? fibus defcripfitinfignisquidam this Poet time! Don't the little flying bird just sparkle in the air It is permissible for a burning son to be a priest; as a child once upon a time I was afraid to touch the waters between them, lest they should touch me Vrcret, weak age with nefeia of things, Which, because it shines at night, has acquired the nickname Or else it shines, since the fiery lamps have been washed; Caufa jit may be one, but the name is not one. Just like this, the smoke-like wings flashed with excitement, The red and golden beauty of the red 'A light fire corvcats me, fleeing far away. fliid JitlltX afraid Why do you ask? inotu lu let them eat ofiracea light crane of the night Luca Emeri tana t Book I And every where he flies with the feces fua geftat lights. How do the lights ward off the darkness, which the flame hides? they know: Now, as it were, it flies to those who see it It becomes more and more close to the edges, and before The edges are as small as the red-hot branches of iron. From which Jove Stygio Properpina was abducted The count was one; It changes the old shape He is still looking for the dominivejligia, omnivluflrat. Qusrirur, then, who went to that fplendor, what get the light how does the animal world become in- dire? Arifto cloths in a piece of beasts, to kill bit Philathasus, polished which concrete bodies are fit to produce while flashing, the led does not emit light cem will be present, therefore the animals are nocturnal litas, while they fly, rub the air and shine; but Gems transparent polished fit go to shine We give up this kind of opinion we call them the shining night-lights, the light this intrenchment and effort, with what force let them be given, and be seen, by God's provident nature to have the ends of the fibi; not feusac rotten firewood, firewood; and that light in they are born of fire. For this kind of thing animalcules, with slush dung, fire parts, five heat around digestion If we have a place concentrated by nature, there is force the light acquires the animal's necessariness. The same We see it being done in the Pifci, by which it is chilled nature provides the living element fqa- masduriflimas, vifeofas, terreltrefque par tes with a certain fiery force to the warmth of nature's heart to strengthen and strengthen the mighty. And in the rotting wood the fiery heat wet air 4d ends are collected. But experience teaches us that most people pifces, then Lucius, the most favored, Go bio, Ramapifcatrix, tumoftreacea, &cru- ftacea, with the rest of the sea's fables, in his hold bris obtains the power of light, oftreas in place obfucuro he craves, putrefaChnque, so much about they shed light from the fire, as the custodians of things the ignorant may be seen as prodigious by merit. There are also Dactyli, of the genus Oftreaceus, which either empty light or use some sparks they spare me from faith; as Meli- 'tas, in Sicily, Calabria, and Ligufticimaris with no end of admiration from the pifcators, and let me offer myself to the inflrufters of the sailors no But as for the wonders, let us be blessed by this light they can be done, pour out the magic of light um bras. mouse Herrera writes, in the new Hifpania in In the mountains of Guatemala there was a certain Eru what kind of thing is to be found, that no one goes unpunished for It will counteract the virulence of the poison; whence, light born of his womb like a kind of lamp, He advises the travelers, all oars and ships to be overcome, because it is so fatal to the light. Part Cincindelawm liquor experience. C E D at this point do not leave poflumea, which many Libidos fpound about liquors Cincindelarumiracula There are those who the liquid of other millets in the burning letters they use, which no one, nifi nqfte read pof- it happens, and thunders; pictures also in pa they depict the streets, which ortufolisabfeon- give But they want to appear in the west. Who let them thus prepare the last humor: Noctilucum, which will make all things fimul with the white of the eggs, and it is mixed with it tur: others think that the liquid is made from to all that rots, with brightness, light, and with the perfection of blowing smoke. Pig polished shiny material in crushed with a porphyritic stone fifteen days mm fub seasoned with horse dung enclosed in glass, then adding some bydrargyri by
lembic delbillat elfentia, which ipfe pu I will cover the whole house with glass bowls to fight Toys toys. For how that humor so often changed, coagulated, fixed tus, circulated, putrefied, distilled, On that edacilfm Mercury miflus in priflina I don't see that it can be done with purity. These are the empty ones of Agyrta and Circumfo additions of frogs I like the truth of the matter I would discover that everyone's care was in vain I tried the risk of making a mold, fed not indeed, one drop of humor or from I could express, nay, this little hu a custom just made by animalculofeparation, together to perish with the same, and I was scarcely any light veftigitjm to leave cOmperi: humor I also did not swim in the place where I found him ture for certain purposes conceals the light of the light, in the meadows) I fell to the ground, but it was out of place for me to completely destroy the connatural. that plexus of humor had scarcely effected ali- whose light he preys on, how much less we believe that so many millions will fight He was corrupted, and was deprived of his original nature distorted by so many alterations? Therefore, the falfa they are all about catching fish at night With the benefit of bright humor Wec kerus what about lighting houses he forms against nature the principles of the Gate. Since for the light of this kind, as ex- perientianos was taught by voluntary animals depends on the movement, certainly lacking in the animal, it is impossible to fail in humor. However, we judge differently about the pifeum fquam- fish, and pieces of crabs, oftreorum that you rot; for these things are to produce miracles to prepare a suitable material for cooking, as in The magic of light shadows will be seen. C liquid you go Vhotifmus Aquatilium. C A P T VIL Te Thotifmo Or Of the wonderful light of some which is in the waters they have birthdays Holades, &8olenes, ma- the germs of the kidneys teftaceoru genera, which some Dactylos do not no one has long caps, others They call the canals, loose in- cluffi tophaceis, life I am laughing at myself rent Hifce nature's humor is so bright he put it in, so that, as ex I found my perishing, in the darkness I did not flourish Pliny mentions this heretofore in the words: Solemn nature in the darkness, remote from the light mine, he gave another brightness to shine, with this humour incited to shine in the mouth of the chewers, to shine in the ma falling on them, and in the folio, and in the vefte drops so as to be far from doubting that nature indeed, how we wonder even in the body. Certainly who He did not see a strange thing; The users are mistaken, but the truth is believed: I experimented I was amazed and found the most beautiful thing: I am a humorist I burst into the dark air, just like a fiery rain, the hand veftefque, whatever of bright humour it is infected with glue, no less than with fireflies, flammifque returns If someone is fat never seen the falling drops of light, ha- It will be easy to imagine the fce closets. Hu jus porro Iplen doris caufam glutinofo Sole- Rondeletius wrote in the snow; we are more true we say that the crown of this light is on the ground it was a transparent glutinous substance by nature bright, because of certain ends by the nature of the anus put into evils, almost for the same reason, by which he holds most of them, and like glue smooth, even, and polished, and for that reason we see the glimmerings, as I said of Cincindelis mus: For in this case there is nothing else for them sent to find the necessities of life it seems, as in the following it will be seen. . L Ide Photifmus Sulmonis marinus Another portent of the sea met here, that all of them are made of mud It becomes light and dark, yet in the light She who was born with it acquires not a little nobility. Others call it the Lung of the sea The nettle, which is to be weeded, shall be blown up with the hand a kind of hidden effect in a strange way. Of this animal, five Zoophyte humor the humor of Darius was so similar find that there is almost no effect on those who do not this also can be presented. However, it is surprising elt, that the humor of this Lung's rods ni gray, or white, and smeared with other things, do not cast them into the darkness and burn them with fire let him present: whose experiment was first ad
Marrias waters near Marfilia commonly called Mar- I found the roof, and then the same Bel- I remember the obfervaffe of lonium, for he said, the staff and the unwashed people make a fire at night as the light vibrates. Whence I gathered in with almost all the pifes of this humour born of the fierceness of Luce Corufci the warmest in soft cruftaceous, teffaceous. But why does nature burn these animals with that light? t r bad light since he had said most of it at the bottom of the sea. let them stick together, let them stick together the sea becomes very dark, so that in many places, the radiators of him on no account shall they assert that they have been touched by the wolf, not even the ani the evils clinging to the eternal darkness they would seem to have been destroyed by nature to the eyes; this one ipfis vifeofum humerum lied light im nature bestows the boon, so that it favors us, ceu a kind of lamp was set upon them, and fodder they would seek, and the light, the darkness that emif- with the help of voluntarism, unfaithfulness is easier I was not at the end of playfulness and fiction they would be deceived CHAPTER. Book I. Part I C A P Q T VIII. Of Photifmus Lapidum, About Dhenggite Stone, [eu cPhofpboro mineral. Not so early then in the field of Bononienfi a little something, that prepare in a certain way then, polished with light, so drink it, so hold it he incorporates it into his hair, so as to be brought to a dark place in the chest be exposed, gather the light conceived tarnke not faeces and live coals, no to the astonishment of the onlookers, it spreads. And although that Fortunius Licetus was ingenuous in I was a book of Litheofphorus, when in folio gro Bononienfi says to be found, yet I of this same mincrat at Tolph, St in a place where the stones are crushed, commonly known as Alume- diRocca, they were eager to dig, no obfuscation in find the words; which Bononienfi's qualities It is a tall stone of a girl. For this kind of love du Ummi- file maffi some Gypfo fulphureo feleni- tK' tica a lot of Arphenic, Antimony, Chalcan- having accepted you into which it is very easily refolled; seriousness Sulphur; diaphaneitas felenitim; tail force ca. phoenix; antimony to induce vomiting ability finally bite they demonstrate the citations of fate; who really found in Bononienfi also in elf there And so to imbibe the light r, , is being prepared. Stone, or whole, be pure lit its ai lu- better known, in the furnace for that purpose 'bZium' is crushed, or made of a more impure material, the parts being washed away having the thinnest net in the pole with the white of eggs, or even plain water nor, from any of them even oil of linseed into one maflam is reduced, qua: fi pofc the first cal- He did not conceive of food or light; so many times This kind of calcination must be repeated until you conjure the desired effedtus, which smell some of the tiniest grains of dew referents, which you see to the fuper line tur, in whom the greatest power of light is conceived ptiva, at the end of another thing he will restore make a figment Therefore prepared in this way a stone, with the wild beasts, at the end of the bows for that It is imposed upon those who have been prepared: therefore be prepared to stumble upon the brightness of friends rvtomoio thing, a stone with the case of the sun indude- t]ori yel fi The sun does not shine, the newspaper: light, or dm- also crefpufculinx, as well as fi night, fire you will set it forth with a strong action (from om with them to attract the light of the enemy, and infc able to derive it, and in proportion as I will give, in such a way that the light will be more prominent, tan to a more abundant and more effective light stone also in the darkness he will be slain) pofitos stones for a while, putaquadran the theme of the hour, to more perfectly ram light infe to be conceived theca lames, you will soon bring it to the obfucurus, and strike it open no, you will see them, I did not see the light and the car spread the good news of faith; which: however push, or conceived the abundance of light now more, now it lasts less, which: nevertheless the duration fmamt. never an hour, let the snow be exposed to the light again tur, he wants to leave. But little by little with strength it is extinguished by flaccidity; experience, however
He teaches, that if I am locked in a dark box for a long time to confirm the concept of your light. Note also, this conceptual power of light in la pide this not to continue; fed as if effeet with time not fecus and Magnetis inter- to die, where the force of the fiery breath fubtiliffimofque calcium admiff os fpiraverit Therefore, the prpdigiofi fpectacu of this stone Varia va- la, to use the maximum at Philophophosexcita- they arouse wonder, and so also the hearts of many. The light of the bed was wonderful, for it was so rare I have been asked to investigate the cause of all confusion immediately they set fire; whence indeed, to use in the new affairs of Seraris it is often done, various: emer- they bear various opinions. Others indeed when they saw this light enclosed in a box carried away to a dark place, to be boiled at any end dependent on a luminous body tia, the light of the body was indeed exifred, on the contrary than the common school of philosophers let the stone draw light for that reason, with which Naphtha drew fire, and Magnes drew iron they love here Some wanted the light on with this fiery stone he built himself effet lity, He did not fece and dtiluca, inobfucuro to shine. Some stones to light it from the surrounding light, fertile the atomic particles, into which I was slowly regurgitating they want others are committed to other things. But all these reasons adduce themselves let the elf be frivolous, deceitful, and without any truth It will be clear from the evidence that it rests on a foundation. And indeed, contrary to the first opinion, so I conclude; for therefore this light became a body he eats that which has been removed from the bright body Tbotlfmus to be thunderstruck; the reason why it is the same will not work be said of the light and heat in the burning iron on should be, since there is no faeces and no light in the stone from the distant Sun, so is heat and light that is, in the burning iron, with the caufa aloft the fire having been extinguished, the confederacy no one fed the Philophophores until now matter and light in iron produced by fire bodies, he said: therefore slowness is false, therefore there is no effulgent light of course Of this kind there is light, from light I am dependent on the body, so that the heart is removed pore luminofo, not to remain for some time fertile light; fed fubitb to die; for this is contrary to manifest experience it is: for we note to the snow Solifque afpe- to imbibe us dtumitaluce, so that the place um- we shall return the grafted broffum for fpecies do not judge with the eye of light. Secondly, return, also make the body Magnetic force, fi can indeed be transferred from the magnet into iron to remain there, even if deftrufted A magnet, a cup of prodigal quality; complete all the qualities; that which who doesn't see it? To the other let him cast the nego part, this the stone reason to draw light; with which Magnes fer rum, or Naphtha fire; Since there is nothing in this operation to interfere with the intake. Great for even though the iron alters the xm mhit by leading in ipfo quality, as well as fe good lucem, m can also be conjugated with the perfective fuo by a certain reason it should be diffused, there is nothing in this communication of light it happens; for the stone is not altered The locomotive was stimulated by this light there, nor any certain fig in it acquires in order to another; fed fe merely paffi- he has to receive the light; therefore do not which must be called, on any account, this stone light, as naphtha fire to draw when the reason of both is different; for naphtha does not properly attract fire, How fed the fire while the vapor Sphteta, how Trtheregdi Naphta continuous exfpiration fua fat he is confused inflammabiii pours, touches, the whole iftum bituminous vapor as medium most suitable for inflammation, when in mo he lights his chin, see how to draw the fire there Naphtha therefore does not draw fire, nor fire Naphtha, as the common people think; fed by fire to Naples, like a long-gra spreading faith as much as possible he ran It cannot be extinguished by faeces and fissures a candle exhaling smoke, however far after removing the lamp, light another candle let's move the fire by slowly propagating the candle we see the extinguished denub kindling: here
due to lightning and most of the weather ra ignited, like a rod; Naphtct fire A stone. The common people call those whom, however, Magnetifmo they are wanting, they want to be kindled: true with this help He also demonstrates the reason beautifully from perimentum, which elsewhere about the lightning through va put out a quintet of wine and set it on fire by bending, we prophesied Therefore, it is clear that there is none in the light of the conception of the stone we know our own to interfere with the magnetic field. Which therefore the light imbibed in this stone con it will boil, or what is the truth of this prodigy the reason is done, it is already refracted so that we can see. And at first indeed, I deny this quality of light from being lifted up by a certain fubftancy into a stone rived since how litec quality from fe incorruptible, shedding light on the stone Of course, the snow does not last a short time tem? let the particles continue to be the largest at the end inconveniences, and the matter of natural forces the combativeness of the refolli poffes, there is no reason to difpice that I may be able to I would oftende son, nift that brilliantly, and through how eruditely in fuo Litheofphorus prefti- tiffet, whom I quoted above, Fortunius Lice you So I say, I do not know the light in the stone produ&um, make none of the reason with in the light of Nightlight, as many Philofophus they smell the wrong rum, shining; so that light in the Nightingale, as in the oak tree trida, curls, cat eyes, heads pifciumquorumdam, oftreisputribus, mu the heart of the ships, and the cattle, not from the body luminofo is produced, led all didta lu proper cem, not feces and carbuncles own, and ground that precious stones, ad certain f nes infused by nature, which in darkness they shine, they have; that of the light of the stone I do not know what to do with the common fibi, it can never be called cato. Again the light in night-lights with the object to which it is attached, pe it rains; feces is to be said of the light we know of stone, which is watered down, no after a long time gradually became extinct, it will be brought back into the cliaos, so that it is genuine the account of this light is given; I suppose Pri mo, the air illuminated by the Sun, vapour to be conceived of a kind of fubtiliffim and light: make the most appropriate report. Secondly, la the foot of the nose by calcination, and the eviction from my ford of terror (cel to be purified in such a way as to be thinned and rarefied ipfius fubftantia crafiori denfiorique, per the opening of the pores of the body by conceiving of the vapors of any light which you pervade, with which the air is strikingly bright body, or fire, or S ole pfeniffimo fca- teat, it should be returned. So you are so foolish with them, with the pores opened by calcination, stone nofterficcitate fua bibula vapidum that lu when the fetus is pregnant, it naturally desires and not the faeces of the neighboring hu C z custom. yimvislu mnis
Book I. Lars Z. more, Magnes albus, fpodium, familia- that gypfeas nature: bodies, lips wet cta, meats, other moist foods: things attract; it is done, that I shine informed by a reliable stone, drawn there it should be received within the pores, where it aCtuaii to be compelled by the coldness of the stone, and closely with with its own thinner parts, and the obfalinitri abundance of transflutres, magifque perfpices joined together into one bright body it lifts, when indeed it illuminates the void then attached to the stone when it goes, it is easy to smoke, the light too, which was said to be as a vehicle there is something, together with the vapid it's cool And let me not stop, every foot he is known to possess this property let it be, the milture of this stone as with the wide from the fua side also to the lu to be conceived, pb Antimo- I will give it to you and Salinitri, which I will put in other places they have not, and indeed this is about my gods cti the nature of the stone opinion. Confession After saying things, for what reason are many of them what a spectacle worthy of admiration with the help of this foffil, that I may be for the sake of reason not least among the most natural let them get the mental one, go out in the dark bers are hungry; g. Pious Lord shining, the glory of Paradise, the shining
ta Sciographic rules difpoflta; eyes shining animals: utftatimin darkness the unlivable are soon made livable, and innumerable others, as anyone for genius he will be able to think with gacy, see about ufu hu right stone Magic of light shadow C APU T IX cOn the properties of light AM obftrufam, recon- given the nature of light in I come, as much as possible in it for riding, so much for me in greater darkness Let me turn and see: Nycticus but the eyes of the race I open to the extent of my fragile intellect tit, some faint ray of light. It should be noted, therefore, that the light is variously trusted poffe, or as it is in the bright body before then, as it is diffused from him, soon as is received in the middle. Finally, as in Paphos, feu fpected at the last terminus. So the first property of light is what it becomes the inner parts of the bright body, in such a way that I do not attach anything to it the sooner it becomes effective, and the form of that, spurned, favored, pul chrum, useful, commendation, namo ad He makes a most worthy surprise, even so He is infused with power, so that the rest of the light also shines re poffit: whence the purification of all qualities but, most efficacious, with no foulness of bodies polluted, rich of all, and in need of none with all the colors, smells, colors, nay And the four first qualities are contained in virtue neat, invincible, and indomitable, with no becomes a mist, which is not difficult, nor so great I did not spread the futility that I was not that any created agent that de- He can destroy it, and has no opposite for it firstly fumptum: therefore very easily qua- a transparent quaver dominates the body bus, through the various parts of the world censuring the government But according as it is confined to the outside light, fe ipfam and abf I was in no diminution of things he communicates, in a moment spreading fe ra god not tortuofo, or fmuofo, fed straight, the shortest line, the shorter the effect to be carried on by nature: which indeed the behavior of all natural agents they seem to be mule and he defended himself below, so much more it sends out rays, the cone of which is formed in ipfa light or to use the forehead; but the mustache is in the middle, or obje with which he was illustrated, and so much so that every the rays spread, the center of the fig tree, the fire pun so, or the center of the circle in the whole circumference the difference of innumerable lines uniformly dif- formiillumination is diffused, as if desired will be declared As indeed the light is received in the midst, ilfutrate all the particles of the medium, and as if to animate the shapeless. In the midst of which which is either reflected or refracted of which are found in Arte Anacamptica, Ana- you will find a treatise on claftica: as it is true in This property is considered by the fuo term has, as bodies however opaque, or even from the transparent side, it renders perfectly visible, from the darkness, from the thick fog, let us all be free the colors that were emitted at the end of the day will appear experience teaches us by no means that nay, not only colors, fed things ma size, shape, number, motion. 'Photijffmo 'DifqwfitG, quietness, unity, closeness, levity, sharpness, sloppiness, roughness sneakiness, diffidence, nem, nearness, di Hiantia, made, c[ivifionein, beauty, tiirpitudifTein, opacity, transparency, time He is full of ctions and patitions. Among other things yet I will diffuse the properties of it through myself the day is so wonderful that it is a kind of fenfu Mra presdita will be seen when the bodies of the irrici- fucuitits in tiin tliaphana quafi by relatives, fetabun- Diapbctitif. let him find the dam in vain, and he penetrates let it permeate every part of it, with all its cheerfulness, and full of fruitfulness like Miniat. Opa but the objects of what nature: I was contrary, because he is turned away with a certain indignation, what eatetigifleipfampceniteat ab them refiiit him- co, cousin repeats, and rather chooses to be broken, how happy and dilparate conjoined conlor- that But if something occurs somewhere in the resource with the hole, through it it will be bitter, and like this glorious flight more widely and more, than the opposite opening
scorning faith in that kingdom of darkness it seems that by the word, I am afraid of so much light He is bound by faith to multiply, so that, by what means I could do it; he does not disdain to collect the holes in fear, so long as by means of it he strikes in further faith; for across the holes whatever no matter what, and what kind of transfer it is not is worthy, and beyond it maj us than in the forami-
lest, and more widely afraid to offend, yet to remain there he is despised. If someone is stuck in a hole that is what the prison is trying to do, every car- wax, and I repaid the impatient with this lu he would hold back. But if one is acting frankly passed through any hole in front buerit, then gently feinfi- nuahdo, in the perfect circle of all He quickly expanded his figure in a magnificent manner by giving how much he is bound by the love of treachery, it is openly offensive. Nor yet in any forum he is crushed by the tranfit, or is gnawed, and it is brighter there, and it is much from the hole let not the fetotum, the dilatatumcomplainer, hocipfo indicating the strength of the fuas near the source etfe tor more expensive, while the closer the hole, the more tan to light up more vividly, and more vividly, for the greater but digretfu indeed illuminates more widely; Fed languor, how among the anguish of the harbor rum and hole (lr impact, co a reportu that, strength, and strength dilated ve ro, feu indiverfaabiens, cliftridadifunita- which by virtue escapes the weaker. So much so it became more rare, the more distant it was from I difceflered at the source, anger that at last seemed like a ni the forgetfulness of one's own tori conju with the shadow let him enter, and at last the darkness of the opposites give way to his sons. Live therefore w. SEfoos the nature of light, and of wonders in the universe to the wolves, now dowry to particular ejufJem Let's turn the pen to explain. CHAPTER X On the nature and efficiency of Light in the world tats, fcholaftka difijuifetio. . I. Of the impossibility of Light. UMEN neceflarioexi- ftere, fuppofita of things nature, nor be made of it according to the genus of beings, they have a contingent Exiftentiam, common it is the opinion of the facients, but which is proved by the following inductions. Among the The most reliable place is the color of the body rata, which cannot be seen, nifipergenefim of the images in the middle, and the same transfer to the eyes; for he fpe- cies in the middle, the act of figuti in fubj edo, tor nor from a certain materiality: when, in truth, the act do not become active fit, and the arch of the snow is not determined in the material nately appropriated to them should be produced, and hence the colorful images in the middle a certain dilpofition nemfubjedi, in which they are made and infused, requi ranting this will be the last form, and difpofition in the act of living images fpecies, forms that bringing out, nothing else, the light of the snow, Lu The mind, then, is so impenetrable to the world, as li that he should not be able to confide in him: above all that The ftdera do not act in these lower things, the snows of the light I do not heat, but every generation of things by the heat, fertile, by that of the rays of the coiefts shared with the lower flow, finished let them be, open the world with light at the end do not cry Neceflarium, then, is the world There is light. . II double per- small TrtecipHuin anitlogitmn who becomes i
f. On the final chapter of Light. 'O Inal Light's cup is another common one, another proper: it is common threefold, God, World, Man: God to whom as coordinated to the ultimate end there are all things, and the grace of each one whatever faith when they act nature, they act ortnia: Mun- dus, to whose ornament, the perfection of lu mind is instilled by nature, with no end in mind not to rejoice Finally, the man who has the goal ftt, Philofophus tefte, the end of all things it must also be said of light, the nature of which the matter of the appetite is to understand and to do all things. And when these things are at an end, the best at the end of the life of the minister, let them not be trusted, ad many differences of things, and to things intimately to be known, it is exactly that there was light which is Heat, Color, and Light. The heat of all I hear of generations, to whose genealogy there is nothing The nifilumen seems to be infeeted, hence the net
Philofophus etp%tp -JfcsTizb, Solem prin He calls the generativity, and genefèque re The fublunary rum is not snowed by the heat of the sun It is believed that the heat is approaching us. Color indeed, it is actually a viable product for each species light is given to us by nature, as It was demonstrated a little before: then it was denied that light, the luminous body of fire, whose body you see God's grace is like a kind of light representative, whose light or influence then something for warmth in the lower parts brought forth to produce. f. III. Of the material stem of Light. p Lato caufe of light material vo- luit efle W riv tt, vafra, 7st 7zu lucis fubj cetum efie the whole world, and all its bodies; Ariftoteles vero 9rs cJtUp JAuh Snu j)dpavw o, that is, the material of light fam efe perfpicuum, as perfpicuume Utra that is good. However, to be understood, It should be noted that there are two kinds of perfections effle, perfect indeterminate, as om nia diaphanous: and perfectly finished as all bodies are dark and colored; That perfection in all parts the outermost and the innermost; this only in the extreme the fuperficia admits of the same bodies the perfection, the innermost, of this faster there is light in both of them. The light therefore the nearest matter is the body ciium, in which the analogous genus is the most important it is analogous to a perfectly transparent one, as air, water, glass, and that kind of light they admit the unintelligible; less important! I. it is analogous to the perfect JAapamv, as Lu na, earth, miftum, colored, other such things they receive the light in the leaves of the fuperficia, in which they have a perfpicuity from the outside Begotten in the transparent, all nature indeed its eflentiasprocreative, such as it is, just as the book Ariftoteles reports. Of the formal chamber of Light. Um fubftantia; besides other difficulties in it rant from the accidents that those quid- tative; and these by the addition of let them be defined; it becomes, as a kind, that in de the finishing of the fubftan tiara defines the material, in the definition of accidents it defines for mom When, indeed, accidents are fint acts, but I was fubjected, and the house became a fpecial light and the form of a perfect body, so that no one should object let the shape of the form be drawn in the same cenfu; we anticipate, accidents, which are all of the shape of the parts, according to the material the proper forms of the whole, called by the little ones, which are the generic stems of the same; so that it becomes another thing to look for a formal caufa acci tooth, what kind, to what it is reduced or to use the species from which I was of course born mind is form, and no other formal body, it has a phyphic, rather than a feipfim. For when of all things, the best kind then, and the accident will be recalled, but not the light effle fubftan tiam, fed accident, and hence physical form, heretofore argument we will make a mess. Everything that is formed by light or light liter rises, figs, and white, all that it is an accident: But formally brought forth from the light there is light; therefore light is not fubftant-, fed accident: for fi was produced by light fubftants, he was acting beyond his strength, procreating What is more perfect, which is absurd: therefore light is an accident, not a fubftance. II. As for that, it should be covered by the end of the fubjefti by corruption, it is an accident; the light of the air and it comes and goes away at the end of the same corru option: therefore light is the image of light, fpecief- that the living thing is bright; but the image of the faculty It is not a cognitive representation of the object fubftancy, fed by accident: therefore III. That which may be remitted and intended it is an accident; I focused on the light, and I was relieved it also leads to the accumulation, the rarefaction which was perfectly supported, as well as for the neighborhood and the brightness of the light from which it is produced, as well to greater and lesser perfection opaque body with perfect body IV. What happened to him was an accident it is, but not a fubftantial form: light He came to the heart of ether, air, and other small things pores, which are actual entities: therefore. V. End Vhotijhorum V. The end and limit of the aketation, which; becomes if the fubj remains the same, there is no rorma
fubftantial, fed accident: light is the end illumination, which is the alteration of the fafta the darkness, and the light remaining in the same room I am perfect; therefore. But when the light is not made quantity, neither relation, nor action, neither the chieftain in the category; quality list better, and indeed in the third kind of quality congealed; and from their paflibii He praises the quality which; the mantle they are in the fenfu. Therefore, the formal caufam lu we have drawn up threats, because of the race pfum becomes an accident, and a phytic form. Side caufaformalimetaphyfica, to say a mouse that elf, who in the definition of metaphy The light has a place of difference V. On the efficient supply of light. Therefore, the supreme, total light and adequate, and the principle which lu it generates the mind in a perfect way, it is a body of light while he was washing away, what fimple fua was prefent it sheds light from fe, and generates water through it iimplicit action in perfect, quality whatever that may have been. Caufa partial eftcftrix of light, and the beginning, which was first bright the body produces light in the perfect, it is light, to be sure, the shape was filled with light bright, in which form the light is finished transparent, become a vivid image of the colors on the skin in the middle, and the shadow in the light, the con- opacity is produced. No other reason for the fire burning in the fire produces heat in the air, which the heat of the air generates a vapor in the air the bus, which, however, was not made of air, was first fed by fire They are said to be heated at the beginning of the heating. I was indeed in Ipecius just as the heat was and the light of the air produces an effect on men, and thus on the body lr7 Licidumfimulacrum Ipeciem lucis, vivi- pradJL bile, viz. , light in perfect production cit, with the face of a man I was the bottom of the glass gin and like a colored body I was a strapless image in a transparent light to Just like a colored body image it was not melted in the middle by one punch of tan then, fedatotafuperficie; so the light shone the image of the body is not clear from one point of the body, nor from the same center only, fed by diffused light over its entire surface. Cause Therefore, the heart is effective and adequate to the light bright pus, as such; light is the quality of which we are the true image, which shines in the midst of the perfect product. v First Corollary The light of gq' x to whom it is clear, the light in my generation there i might not be brought out of the bright body you are the mother's perfect mother; transparent, fed to him extrinsically DifcjuiJitio faeces to arrive from the perfect light that so de- I show To bring out the form of potential mate riae fubj edtae, there is nothing else properly, than form arises from the generator through transformation having a mother's fu bftrats in fe that- I will give the rudiment of those forms: to this light may correspond, fed dia-rU- that which may come to the oppo; tct, because the light is produced from the light in Diapha no, ftcut fpecics are produced in the air; fpe and fcnfiible things, such as the trusting of objects lacra, from obj cetis in the middle, and in the organ of the fen they are born, not too much nor from the material of the patient, fed po they are introduced from the object into matter: er go light is not brought forth from the power of the mate things: what reason convinces, be indeed in it they are in the middle the form of the opposites of the past; opposites, such as black album; so the fubjeftum cannot be the same the last difpoftion to the contrary forms; but of form, which is the power of matter they are said to be contrary to opposite forms difpofttiones: therefore Again, form, qps na- it is done immediately to prefer. then I was efficient tis, and in the absence it is immediately shaved it is not produced from the power of matter; for such Ma is light, then. Just like the final picture the face of noftri is not brought out of the power of fpe- ass; in which it is formed before us, so light: therefore light is not produced from the pot mother's birth That was prophesied. And can be confirmed: by the fact that the intention of Ipecies nals are said to be more spiritual than the rest accidents, and material loss. Second Corollary Light there is no film T T Inc also manufactures the origin of light
not elf ftmplicem in transparent ema- ex emxn(i nation, fed real production based on tio, by the action of light, I did not produce the same light- tur, caufi efficient otiola, ftve no help ranting Just as riftability in man so that the mind of the rational mind is not exhausted no effort, and greatness in the body the natural nature of the mother doing nothing it is finished; really with the help of a bright body rante, truly, really produced. who- for by emanation from someone they flow, depend on it, as affections, paffionefque from formal or material caufa: it has been demonstrated in the foregoing, lu the body is neither formal nor material lem, fed an efficient caufa elfe; therefore by A simple emanation cannot arise; fed by real production with the help of an agent based on real reason. Again, when they become a fold emanation from someone, so that they are very heterogeneous; the light is fed therefore "I need to- those lura ini Book I therefore it is through true S: real production it arises from the light as an efficient acaufa. Third corollary. Aret, therefore, make light nothing else, nifi fensible quality phyfice produ from the luminous body present in the body perfpicuo, to which the procreative heat is attached ffidrs I I lost my color, and I fancied myself as a representative of the lucids, from whom for a long time it may be settled in the transparent What is the definition of drinking? all the light reaches, formal, while il Lud says the quality is fensible; material lem, while it afflicts the transparent body; eff while that is the real efficiency of the body to be brought to light; finally, while He says that he is a heat-predictor. CHAPTER XI. T)e marveling at the powers of light in the production of nature fublunar prodigies IRAM produced light implement the theme and action eat it now, not from another place it is better clear than ex to marvel at what he paints, and he imagines in the air, miracles. It is therefore complained that efficiency will benefit them. That this may be done: they note while eff, the light to rely on the femper in all fibi to procreate with a female, and in this to be akin to produce the univocal fibi of the nation in lpecie the matter affecting: but the light really to be born in the light, to give a clear experience cet: for in the first place it generates the light of the rays I saw another light outside the rays in the air no: what if anyone denies, the same works air he denied the darkness: that when he abducted while it is done, experience; he cried out, neceffario I will say that the light that is close to me generates something else while eff. Then it is known, light, when ex with a dark body, and a terrible repercussion, as well refracted in the middle of the den, the light produ by the turning of the first efficient, various things are obtained appeals; of whom take the fruition experiments Experiment One 'Ve color diy Flames. C Iin fcutella any teruginaeum colo- the matter of water life, five dripping liquid you will be committed, and then it will be prepared you will be kindled; you will see that I am not at the end of the day For reason I burn a flame of a greenish color: but I was given liquor of cinnabar you were born, lit up with a liquid of an intense red color He will give you a flame. If, in addition, ful- phur to the same admifeueris, cseruleam flam you will have the same flame fed by the variety of matter from which it is nourished then he acquires, in a different way, a tint. Second Experiment Ve color appearing. A Ccipefphaera glass with limpidifli water I am full of things; thus expounded, as ex ipfa the light of the Sun falling into your eye let the philsera B C D, the eye E, A F, rays Qhotifmormi Effetius ij you will see the Sun's rays terminating k in D, pun- dto the most intense blush; changed, however angle, you will see that color manifest itself from red to pink-yellow millet. In K, also the same filumacrum of the color ru bei will appear; I owe much more than in D lius of which, indeed, another reason is not ell, nor va ria in the middle of the denfiori refraction, v washed out by different degrees fading into different colors it goes away, when the color is different in color Appearing in these two bodies, nothing else becomes #nifi light is variously affected by various refractions: thus the light of the Sun falling on Bjpundtum fphivrte
in the middle the refracted denfiori falls in C, hence the reflection is reflected in D, and then from D, refracted again, finally eye E, asks When, therefore, this light is refracted twice, a mirror reflected in a homogeneous medium, tan he arrived at H. I don't think so weakened by the native fua clarity of the quafi in a kind of shadowy degenerate light at last it happened to the eye; and this kind of thing Let the fraction be a multiple of the fraction rum, from which it is clear that in there is much redness it varies from red in D, as those who are punished he rules the court; which color becomes more remote from with a white color, which the light reflects in a point D, it also suffered several refractions it is not necessary; for the sun's ray F, in G, in falling, is refracted in H, hence in I, from I, in K, from here, finally, into the eye of E, Vi therefore, let the flower of the shade become so full of color matter, how many more refractions he admitted into it any circular body, five polyhedron dia- pano It is true that from this and similar ex let's do the magic of noflraCatoptrica We sent the eoledtor back. It is enough for us, co lores all appearing nothing else the light of the Sun was to be shed in the midst of it, in which matter by bending, by refracting, in various ways which is so different from the natural color of light he says, at a greater distance, by the various refractions as if through multiple body parts ris, that which transpires has been more weakened urnbrofiufque rendered. But in this case tisfufius Because therefore the light of that incident gene rat light, repercussions in fu treacherous fpeculi, diaphanous fire terminated, &refradtio- lest even in the fertile transparent which, indeed, is a fertile light and trembles is called by the name of lightning, and dofi Henceforth, since from this I am fruitful light is generated a third light outside the pun then for relief, and to refract extra material of action in the transparent, the light, I say the reflection refracted, it happens that from there the light varies built up, different types of colors there So from the rays of the sun in the morning in the vapors When the rice is refracted, a kind of redness arises the firmament of the heavens, as the beginning of the dawn is said to be mouse and there is nothing else but the sun's light refracted deeper in the middle; who blushes so much more to the effect of light, how much more and more the sun approaches the horizon nearer, and how much greater athmofph? rse part has been iluftrata. The same must be said of the sun's rays in the vapor of the horizon slain, where it is clearly seen from bright, clear, and fiery, the light of the sun on the horizon the umbrella of the flringing, in yellow and crimson, from here to red, from red to blue, and to draw from here into the dark shadow: which Indeed, the diversity of colors comes from different reflections xion of the borders of the light 6c of the shadow in the middle draws a rarer origin. Moreover, from the same rays, force is also excluded on the day of the refradtis nation, in the cloud colored and varied light is generated when desired gate of the rainbow, of which in Magia noltra Ca- toptrica From the rays of the same leaves in the cloud They become fuppofita alone, the light of the fire gene It is said that the sun is twinned or tripled. From all the clouds were refracted by the rays, rod fields, pits, and other theological imprefions are obtained colors; of heaven also. Comets which phenomena derive their origin. So, then light as an univocal agent generates in perfpi- with which, with a transparent fire, a new light demfpeciei, in order to rediscover the fruitful light smoke, five from the air outside the rays, fire from the fire out of the straightness of the light, and refracted a not a fertile transparent fpeciem of rays mutating, or diverging in some way And the same kind of neighbor, that they may give light while refracted in cloud, and fubfpe- or of rainbows, or of rods, or of pearls, or of others of that kind. D C
turn off the ror# iridescent Book I. 'Part I. CHAPTER XII. How Lumengeneretcolomm yifibiles jlecies in the middle. U p P o N O first con through some they make light of the sea three colors for lead in bodies co lauded; then the light don't make a coffee break mental; nor the total to be produced of living species. Not before, because in
by such a production the light would act as a habit; but the attitude of the caufa intrumental should not be effected quit Not more lustfully, since in it I produ ction colors work best, with which light cooperates: for there is no light from faith to produce images in perfect color for the light of faith is powerful for all transparent parts-indifferently; there is no reason why in this part rather than in that, ru brown, white, or another color gene ret. Therefore, all the efficiency of light and leaves above all, because it raises all the colors as fme material: fibi fubjeffire minifterio fin- I was a living image of the gulls in the transparent be able to procreate Therefore the light acts in Eph the science of colors, as a principle, primary agent pardale; not even that the form of color, when color from fe true ha I was happy with the production, fed as race colors fupra fujectte fibi material: condition to the immaterial in any case I was the one who produced the humility elevating: for when color becomes the form of matter Immerse, but the light from all matter con removed from the country; material form ad to work it becomes unwise, and even a foolish mate he is able to raise the river; in the beginning He will say to the immaterial, that the waste of matter is futile a condition to something from a fubjedta matter independent production is elevated: that Indeed, there is nothing else but light; this for it causes the color to form a color in the transparent fpeciem livable, I will give away from all fubjedta material ft- the mule, in the middle I say let him produce the bottom I am born with that prodigious reason, with which the intellect the agent produces, as phantoms in the organ ma material imagination, fub condi individualistic, material, not cooperating with the ipfls phantom organ material, nor any individualizing condition, of faith in the mind of the possibilistic fuam ipforum imagi to produce a completely immaterial fint Therefore, what kind of color becomes imma- terial, it has that from immaterial light; that but it becomes a representative object of a certain color, it has no indifference from light to all colors bearing, fed by a determined color, from which for led The truth about hifce is tufted with those CHAPTER XIII. How, by means of light, heat is generated in the earth, in the air, five athmojjdhoera to produce food, fed in matter of heat ap- propriataaion in atthere due to the expansion of the body thinness: nor immediately in water, as desired it will be seen: nor in the depths of the earth, because obscuring the opacity and fragility of the hair. It therefore reflects the heat produced by light the infills of worldly bodies bus But how this is to be done, I have already explained. while it is Therefore, the nature of air should be noted make it hot, make it moist, and take it that they have very good qualities, and therefore the air was easily futile into a changeable fire. Since then I will try let him teach, make the file of heat false, so that you can who with moisture retufa that very water- Cetlof{sl{ma tur and diminucia. When, in addition, hn-ficcitaiqM, a little I put it first, the light to pro heat conduction effie agent with whom: indeed the fire nofter fi warms, formally as an agent it warms the univocal, but not in quan then it is bright; for thus the agent of thee it is for it is the proper agent of univocals tium, fibi ftmilia, ftcuti the daughters of the fibi, to produce For if the fire is warm would do as far as it is bright, certainly can put away of any one, or of the most fictitious the flame produced a much more intense heat it would be like a coal fire burning iron; which is contrary to experience: therefore not to one With a voice, the fire heats up. I suppose that the light is not everywhere! Pbotifmnim Ejftclus. it becomes naked as a kind of glue, with which par tes body connected to each other: conti the continuity of the purities is certainly indicated, to be removed it cannot, the moisture of the snow first agglutinated fue rit fublata; , his. produdrix, then three But that moisture shall be removed, and it shall be divided into parts continued air: they are cut, and in minu- The smallest parts are divided as it were. To this but to carry out the initiation of the parties, prfducltJ hil is more suitable for futili that of the foliar rays
by juicifion into parts by propagation, any amspcr cjem so much more effectively act, the more radii they to m opaque bodies, and more straight ll- they slide: but they slide so much more straightly as much as the rest of the earth and the rest of the worldly bodies cies more normal fe infinarvent: Radiis nim didraration incidents, when in opa with the body no further transfer is given, ra of the gods infe reflows from an infinite kind I will speak in a whisper, the wind is also strong feequaturincifio, minutiffi. rnaque like a dif- top but the defense of the humidified per. con I hold back the diflolution; humidity but diminution and extermination the necefiario will be finished with a strong rarefied air you this heating receives and from which that ignition, fire into fiery fubftantity mu tation; but the air is constantly filled with rays and the difiolvi would be broken apart by the vibration of that fo He was able to destroy the light from the intense light ti difgregationis, difldlutionifque, qua pol let him by virtue cause pain in the living organ it really didn't matter. Wherefore, not by reason of the end You exceflive the feeble, the exuberant heart Philophophus sneered at the break: for he was smitten the form of the organ, and consequently unity, and wholeness tas, the continuity of corporeal parts the being went out from the form, and the soul into them. Light Therefore, intense smoke can cause pain in the eyes to quote, and to dillblver the conftitution of it; and it is common to all opticians gm. If, therefore, the parts of the body are light, the more easily and the better it can be done Siigittce the corpulence of the air with many bodily organs, and thinner? Certainly the ancients
Confession Hint: it is clear at first, why the places of Jequinodiaii nearer the greater heats, and at they are For when the rays of the sun are reflected strong winds of air futtilier aciancvirtutis force dilTolutivamfignifican I will give it, not incongruously with the symbiont of the beech trees By the hands of Apollo, inflicted to a violent degree tiam in the production of heat, fo larium que ra the activity of the gods in secret. to be counted they flow Veru nide hifce see Aftronofjiiam noftramhieroglyphia, where there are many curiosities, you will find learned things pertaining to this matter. : It is therefore clear from the didis that the light is caufa ca the belt is not made by the movement by which it is moved, fed po from the motion by which it moves, and weakens, the air slow, moist, persistent, quafuera It is not necessary to make the heat. it is necessary to make the mind warm too, which indeed will be so much more intense, as hastened closer to normal reflection. From here the scorching zone of the sun sets in mftu Arifloteli were rendered almost inaccefla. Sedremdemontremus. Let the earth be A. The sun B. since then you were the sun with the rays of the earth A. fub Infeipfos from the greatest diiciffion of air, calo the most effective things are in a wonderful proportion caufa multiplied in the corner bunt: But fub fphmra 'oblique with the leaves of the ray things fall laterally, and obliquely from L re bent at O, near the point of the angles, or dullness, and the power of heat to re- and it will be sent to him. For how much greater the triangle of the rays of faith was sharper L N O, so much more in the fubjedis the earth: in places the heat of birth is necefe. But the fub fphmra cold, parallel to the fire, with the leaves of the ray thing in the R obtuse angle with the ground Let them be confounded, and I will be dumbfounded by this; heat He is born, in fact, with no deep ray of faith they form a triangle. Henceforth I will forever aS Book I The born frost freezes Zona. But these things are more clear they are, as they should be said. l4nma of. From this also it is clear that he has faith the annual motl of the approaching and receding Sun comparison t any northerly radiation; italele quo let the newspaper have the same horizon tem radiation. For what is the annual conversion he was nearer to the summit of the other, and in which clay days was the south Part L I believe, so much the greater the silence will acquire the itautfolhorizontalishy bernos, and the meridian, on the other hand, the seftivos ra the gods report perfectly, and it becomes four years some wonderful parts with the parts of the day proportion, and I will measure it very accurately. Ve see more about this in the art noftra Ana- bell
Lunafrig give You want to file by virtue of So mifta issue CHAPTER XIV. How does Caor bring coldness and humidity into it to produce fublunar to the world. Lunar tntnflruus movement to year of flowers compare the matter system I will kill the egg it can be seen how from the same efficient caufa diverge in the same matter on the contrary, the effect of ca of loris and cold of the state, and of the fictitiousness produced they want The way to be explained; Note we are not here to deal with that coldness, which tel the lure was blinded by the rays creeping into it It happens when he is exhausted by the heat it is by no means made from the sun's paite, it is fed from a part the light of the earth being not conveniently powerful to accept: it is not a matter of cold dturn finishing the absence of the Sun, elt He was caught by accident by the cold. fed from with that coldness, than the Sun, the Moon, and the rest They bring in the other parts of the earth, which are appropriated to them I will give power from the Author by nature; to Sun ca put in to control the internet. Pra; the rest or By this power the moon cooled the faithful ones He will pollute, as the earth benefits from it; communicate For when the body of the moon was cold he should have a soft and moist complexion, and as a kind of other earth from the moisture, and conflicted with earthly parties; it becomes like the Sun the cold rays of the moon are no longer warm, imbued with the power of the moon to reverberate on the earth rent For as rightly that great Albertus The light of the sun is received aftelhs into the depth of the ftel- larum is received, (ffjic incorporated Jlellis, Jl e Ha rum induces virtue, and causes divers things with which litatum, fecund that they diversify ftelice, in with which it is incorporated, For he has, as You are right, Averro, from where he delivers. Moon light the same sun with a cold temperature, and hu- so as to have warmth from the light of the Sun the moving temperature, and cooled to a moderate temperature let him take his temper; Philophophus: Just as the sun of the whole year has gone out receive, and receive from us, the breath and makes winter; so I was the moon I was in the space of light, reaching fullness: in the full moon, however, in the physigy of the Sun ten the light of the tooth diminishing day by day, as if He puts on a certain character. Winter but by no means would the Moon make it, the snow Lu for with us the reproductive effect of coldness he would say These things may be better understood; j Note the fertile one, double-edged the caufa fri gi of lunar wealth, privative, and opulent; We cannot say that the former is not incongruous the exile or absence of heat at the end Menfis, by which the lunar winter was diminished light; thus the full light of the lunar saddle makes Why is the full moon colder than the short season? let us vent a great deal more than the tempest of the interlunes pore the moons diminishing, and rarefying fuo mus qukm heat, first born of fe someone from At the beginning of this air the heat rises, which with the pores relaxed, the cold blowing around to the insides penetrating the recesses of the human body to pierce the fenfitive parts with a flowery cold takes whence the cold is refreshing ftri: but this does not take place during the interlunar period, since then the vapors could not be penetrated by any light retaining the natural strength of the fibi to the tightness the things of the body are unfit to penetrate the pores. Therefore, by native coldness, the extreme part of the fu- I will only finish, denied further transfer they persecute me by measure. Why even most of the illunia xftate, what winter, let them be colder, conjian- the caufa is that which means is brought together to one let the extremity have the account of the other. tremi: itaaeftiva; nodtes of the full moon to the day the canicular rum has been tempered; frozen are, washed in the bath with warm water and cold produce a greater circumferential heat I will Additionally, on full moon nights produced thinner water vapors in the lower air mo fufpenfi penetrate more easily through the skin dew to the inner parts of the human body, which fenfu the most powerful the least cold How A fictional moon status for lead Vbotifmntm Effetius. they bear their cold with pain. The moon then Give birth to the earth, and cool it with the same rays of the Sun
quality imbued with atnmofphxram quality conflmili, that is, wet and cold imbued imbued with the same quality of atmosphere by the rays of the Sun fphaera with the quality of confimili, that is, humf- give, cold imbues Whence it was finished a certain tenacious air, and humidity, of the parts that confection, which are like a hiding place some of the cold, they are finished. That is so what we say of the Moon, also of Saturn give the same quality as the powerful Moon it is done I come to the second quality, namely The contrary of liumidity is the quality which how was it brought forth from the wet moon it must be explained. As you go there the sun's rays burn the moisture The heat of Accitas is made by the necephalarium. Yes clear the moon's moisture from the body by bringing out the fictitious nature of the matter it is babbling; let the moon give you full light the pore had increased humidity the matter: yet for other reasons the Moon is made up-Bacchios, not every day I roll menfes in he brings them on: for first he is filing, and to be foaled from- of water and moisture many lacks in the sea, trees, oftrea- ceis, the bodies of animals, experience by teaching, he promotes, but in the light of the moon I hear the day, and already at the end of the fullness, to use the greatest accumulation of fluids in the mun Danes begat bodies: thus the same con often consumed by evaporation clothed in the futilior parts of the moist pu tredine brings falsehood; because putrefaction first they become moist, then sticky. the moon go by the light of the flesh borrowed from the Sun at night. It leads to the most corrupting of rottenness. from them it causes the native moisture to flow out, &fic fiction, as we have said, by accident brings Hence the third quarter of Monday Aftro They say logical and cold, and Maniacs feu Lunatici, because of melancholy: , feu atras bi lis prxdominium humidity of the brain in fic on the brink of death they took refuge near that Nonni in Dionyphiacius, where the Moon brings forth this faith. I am really Luna C A PQ T XV. Solari, Lunar[me light on the plants, animals Ertum is in the Sun, Lu- na The stars, besides the light heat and other qua- litatos first, other ad Here the qualities are breathed, as some rare, and prodigious 'paradoxically affected demon frant Which certainly to no one else; hidden snow they polish it by a miracle of virtue. For if the effects of these first qualities he would complete it with the help of Necefalario, give him all things push with the first powerful qualities He should have owed me: which, however, was not discovered it is For example, if Magnetus draws iron, because it is cold and sticky a thousand in temperament, it is certainly not: reason, why not everything is cool and cold for a small reason draw For no reason, therefore, did he I cast the god Magnetus into the first qualities it must be put into force, a special fire a certain quality from Magnetic: eflen- titeabyffb immediately flowing. So be the Sun And the moon with stones, plants, animals, they would have a certain sympathy because it is hot, cold, humid, cer you in everything of this kind of complexion, produce similar effects to bodies, but that experience: it fights, you are different there is no doubt that the quality is superior it must be sharp: for it melts certain sharp stones of the Stone file- hence the so-called Felenites, who were moved by the moon express to all, Proclus also lib. i. of Sacrifice Mag. ia memi nit fe habuifle, who all the change of the moon nes, increases, decreases Of this kind of stone also exlndismira deiu- reports Mizaldus. of a dove's egg, a pitcher of color, here in the waxing and waning of the lunar light from he looked through a certain bright spot, which increased with the waxing of the moon, He did it with a decrease, so that the new year at the time of the inftar grain of millet would appear, full but the Moon would express the greatness of the pif: nor the so-called foxes of the moon; fed mo it affected the same thing. And don't be fooled it would seem fubefle; adds Mizaldus of this fe the reiinprefenria of that famous Orontius Finius
The Royal Mathematicians, of one entire menfis fumfifle experiment; the matter" purely na tural, and like the greatest of my natures a stone approved by all D tan Rei Lu you are successful Liating foliar lu nostrils Book I at last, by the gift of the King of England. Certe Mizaldo alias fuperflitiofo, fimplici with a kind of credulity in the hujulmodi easily, in the full way of moving, there is no faith I would apply it, if there were no experience of this matter I will be open to others as well. I know from proper perdition, as Ledor in On entering the Magneric world, he will be able to see the matter two things, which the immovable fusion to. Sdiefh turns; new and familiar lunar land: miracles I also remember myself in Recondi to the antiquity of Claudius Menedrius Rome: vi di (I blow you a stone to the criftail, in cu the right of the heart is a wonderful and incorruptible reason some by nature infused liquid near the Sun afcenfuirf, defhehfumque, he stirred from here to there Menedrii all this rarity thejfaut the forces divided itapautilim fuiffe ejiffipa- then, as before many other things, then mother I would not even investigate this pebble vefligiumejus is large, as if in complo rando hujulmodi rerum cfiflipatione, or lost, or the rest: a pile of stones I could find a cotfimiftum. It is certain that men efl, that jocjtior, whose account was born given in the world of magnetic knowledge found Cardanuslib reports on the aftrological judgments cis, Clement VII. I had a gem Have a solar didla Helite, which: golden bat a spot, near the movement of the sun days with the same east and west cir folded Similar laws about the blowing of the Sun a Boethius Ravenna was remade, quarfe with So he was constantly turning le, as efl in Hierony rubium's mum Antiquity of Ravenna. The true accounts of all of which are by experience unbreakable resources in the magic of light um- brae oft anclemus, where the Reader much pra: bright and curious I will not talk about it here I will experience silver, iron, Mercury, etc and the effetes of minerals, such as Ilanc from the material of the world we know from the earth we would have referred to the profeflo, which: with the Sun, Lu Nay, Stellas, I have a strange harmony with thee that fool knows how to spin, which he has done with effects ipfa will report the tests. But I come and plants, including the largest ones with light, the abundance of foboles fe offers: so many, love city bonds with the Sun, the Moon, and the Stars which conj unfla with the lights, so that there is no reason from them they should be seen to be fed. See that curiously We discussed this matter in the noflro Mun do Magnetic cap. Magnificent. planet rum, five of Heliotropia, Selenotro- by the wonderful power of the pious. Nor in herbs, plants alone, I have done wonders for animals The Sun obtains a certain power to do so T byt. Part L And the moon's femen varies in the light of Plinius the Formica he says the ants work fuaad light I, un; i: dif- L rarely is it so much more intense, the greater it is growth smokes; from the full moon tofpefcentes, tired with too much labor to atpar caverns like a kind of quiet hideout fe to confer, Pliny adds the same filaments he- you suffer from a strange kind of reason to the nor the mother of the moon's light grows and grows. Certainly I am not a woman who has experienced it I found the eyes of the lures, feu son nota- oetjflltn with the help of the changes of the lunar light: I also covered their eyes a lot in the winter they are greater than the wind, so that in the winter Let it be seen that I was in a certain state with the moon to tend to the apogaiunj of growth for which reason: for when the nights of Hyberncc lon the younger fmt, nature also for them to hunt more light five vivivi spirit conceffifle vi- rhante is given Panthera, fi Aiberto we believe, macu-r lam has in his skin fua luna's guns from the battle imitating: Elephants, which are near the obfer-zuhtri. vation d'Eliani, Luncfe in the works of the former Ju-us. they offer Phyfam, whose in the world magnetic noflro, the nature of the fuse mus, besides other virtues admirable to trust this extra force from the dEgy I found out with the pifcators, that with the Moon erefeat, decrefcat& motion, and affection
Moon: in all things there is a certain joy that his supremacy should be extended, at the end of which afliflen7 tia, he cannot live, it may be seen. Everything is finished oflreacea exfanguia, soft, cruflacea for lu by the increase or decrease of the moon, Now to be thin, now to be fat known as See what the nature of the Scarab, Cynocephali, and Feluri with lunar animals fruitful in the science of Hieroglyphics m entem of the ancient Egyptians fufiflime, tUHd {t We have delivered with great curiosity. As much as in pra: in The Moon favors pregnant women, as much as in the fetus it is well known. Certeindu ferv0 nil He has become familiar with his extensive experience here and there conception of man with his birth the ximum to have a confenfum for afpeflujn ta- conc aiU! and that of the Moon, in each Zodiac that moment of time Indeed, as a child at the time of the novel, or full: Moon: .conceived, about the same month under the new or full Moon: the same as let us see the fruit poured out into the light. Ex by which the reason is also clear, why and novemeflres the birth of fint perfect, oti but the meftres either the mill, or the mountain at all llrum, or even what is imperfect in in form and appearance, I am carnated with fire pregnant women produce a certain maflam; And here is not an undeserved aphorism? he (Bjfeclus of Photifmus. to them. in Ptolemy it seems to reflect: The sign of the Zodiac, in which the Moon will dwell at the hour at the moment of conception, it will be the same as that which will affect it the hour of the horizon and the moment of birth; {wine, inquoefl the Moon at the time of birth, will be The same thing depends on the time of conception. One from the old confederacy he invented, as a woman giving birth to facilitate the birth of Lucius for, and Diana, ideft, to invoke the Moon they were, of which see the Pantheon of the Hebrews Oedipus noftridEgyptiacicap. Lilith, where various things of this kind are brought forth. CHAPTER XVI How the light of heaven is diffused by the heat of the natural fire from the life of the soul. lium for a long time: and it is opened in this Aflrological of things of the Jews the foundations of man's life. X Arifiotele in command demonstrated by the teeth how can I add abduction of the body the beginning of the minophile becomes lu men born with us, and by means of the light of heat generative and convergent of animals invite; but now we must see whether the circuits of the other circuits of life depends Most of the Philosophers They say: Albertus said that with these words it is clear: to God all the time that is in the matter of the body rali, jp every life that lives had a number in the ccelefti circuit, (p in the ipfo circle of the ccelefti term nature because from this circle he was entrusted to every one to what extent the procreative power extends the fruitfulness that he brings the ephemeris, before he brings the perpela corruption of things; for of all the lower ejl the order cajarupting from the order of the fuperies; all the time that is in the lasting time of a thing And every one is stolen in the period of his life: not yet all are stolen at the same period; some fed they have a greater, some a lesser, J'eeundum which they retain more fufeipiunt than virtues fibiex you flowed in a circle of ccelefti. This is Albert. Which Philophophus confirms it as a calculus. of Generat. Animals, ch. Where do you choose? He says, that the times of the birth of the womb are certain for each one animal life that is, and the times of all pregnancies, and generations, Sc the dimension of lives they are anxious to receive the circuit of the fibi. Which all things to be understood; Times First of all, there are four times mTdro. the residence of animals in the womb: con reception; perfect information organization; of the complex, which: is for the former by effusion of the parenchyma between fi the bras of the limbs, the temper of the body; augmentation to suit the body greatness: to whom they will answer as many times of duration of animals outside the ute rum, which they boil in exact proportion with the times of generation in the womb; therefore experience teaches us how much a certain animal he was more lively, so much greater in the womb to draw the ram, and the generation of the older ones May the evil be prolonged in my generation ours Let us give an account of the matter;
It should be noted that he was a fertile, two-fold animal Temperament: one efferent, that it acquires while it is congealed within the womb, a the nature of its stem, the generation of fire for it moving; and the other is accidents le, which the animal acquires from the surrounding air, while at birth it is carried outside the womb into the air, When, therefore, the air becomes warm by nature, warm, warm from the fet of a nafcent animal, and it can alter the moist texture; but to use such an alteration in the human body because of its softness and tenderness that thinness, and poorness It is certain that the pofle is easily printed from the air: so to the living creatures of the camp, of which harder, and natural leather covering the body thicker, from the heat of the air, and the soothing moisture, vellnulla infection To these the heat of the air rises through the light a man of faith shared, who tempers the chin of the fetus in the womb I give, manguine and femen two generations the principles of living things, the temperament he can bring a fan. Since then, hold on the smoothness and elasticity of the female belly from by the heat of the surrounding air, the casleft is easier on the other side there, what a brutal foetus; the fool therefore hu the hands of the fetus because of the said caufas from the environment warm air, or a humid temperature, in what is life like? system jams, then accidents le, then potentially, ultimately maxi the mother will be able to acquire the vivacity: the rest but for the purpose of dying in the womb, I died the length of the fion, and the shortness of the fibi they are to receive the circuits, that is of the latter the most important wandering movements in the Zodiac: not even by reason of the movements of the left determine the two integers, when the movement them Temperature chin du= complex g Book It those fmt uniforms, and therefore inept to move the greatest deformity, and a fruitful variety of dimensions health and circulation in difficult times of riches, and of generations, and of lives many living things; fed circuits system not even greater than those who apply for the pledge just less light in Athmofphaera from which the variety of light also varies with the degree of heat so they arise, different generations, and lives depending on the length brevity of the promo truly born, whatever the Sun's circuits are, and Lunch; for it is the beginning of the lunar light generations, changes in Atmo- fphaera, because of the light received from the Sun, which ipfa, as we have also said fupra, finds skin strong into this Athmofphaera, cu the right of reception and reflection of light that the Moon becomes the rival of the Sun, and then the focia, mu tations ipfa promoting, just to ge creation, only to destruction: for as right Arifloteles; j i&S&mg Because that great Sun used to Approaching the Boreal dominion, hitting the air at sharp angles dioru makes rare by multiplication, rare- which heats, spreads the heated to the heat the vegetable matter of all living things in spring the procreator, and the congener Auflrale, however, resuming the dominion of the hemi- fphrerii, when the earth noflram to the corners may strike the dull ones, failing the multi-rays plication, also a minor imbecilliorif- di5 rebs. that by failure of the mouth, things are on the verge of destruction re neceffe efl: Thus the Moon is the substitute of the Sun, of light with the increase of days I went out of the mud in the spring and in the seflivo quarter, my friend how far it advances the generations; of but making light of the other fourteen during autumnal and Irish days a quarter of the decurfum in the generations it fails to promote rum: for let it return Philophophus says, heats and cooling nes of the whole menflrui year round things The moon is shining. Indeed, the heat ex- ceffivus all native moisture mind, the nature of the living; yes but the cold extinguishes the native heat it destroys living things. from here hot moist, in two lights thus The Founder moderated the heat with the cold moderately moist nose (with moderate heat as a precaution fa p. cold, moderate or con- farce tempering the caufa heat exceff) at the end but by moderation they would bring about corruptions.
Since then all living things or in the air, Vnie deu or they were first born in water, and then SlZitas arose they live there the nature of the former leaders; especially retains the conditions of the place of my birth, which ma it has the greatest power in those which tur, they dwell) and all mixed bodies in temperature of air and water, hot fire, and they are wet; the body of women too let the beginning of the living be fpumofam confidence fused from air and water stirring up the spirits: when, moreover, the air, and they are most affected by water for the reason of the Sun, Lunas, fyderum, confequensefl, as ani the close nature of the mantles of the same period Fubjeda is affected in the same way caufa caufe, that is the necefalario efl caufi caufati; nay, to change things more principally liu confimilly to change them less important both dependent on them, according to reason fentaneufl For reason says, I perish the god of less important things, of princely things the pallium periods on which they depend to be licked For things less important in the world is governed by those who are more important; that is, when all the movements of the faithful they rule, and to the circuits of the Sun and the Moon changes be made in AthmofphaEra noflra, namely, air and water as the main elements; already at the same periods of Sunday Monday mul to make such changes more neceffe, and proportional in the living things of the world eat the less important parts like with the gods, the events of the fire them C foliarium. From this it is clear that as the year Solar two. dEquinodiis, Solitiis in four seasons; Spring, that warm moist; dEfflivum, which makes it hot when; Autumnal, that cold stuff; Finally, the Irish, which is cold on the ground while efl, is divided: thus Menfis Lunaris in four quarters, feu quarters, quarter in the solar year in a strange way when they answer, it is divided; so that two folflits Solaria, conjunction and opposition of the Moon; two fortnights both growing and declining report All this is beautifully done they are seen in the shape of the expreffa. ABCD fhtijmomm EffiBut; AB CD, Circle of the Sun, Moon fub Zo deacon A B, the first quarter of the crescent Moon; really brings Lunar Spring. B C, the fertile quadrant of the crescent Moon; It refers to the lunar phase. A B C, the semicircle of the crescent moon of knowledge, which the generations of things promote CD, Quad [rare third waning moon, It refers to the lunar autumn. D A, the last of the decreasing Lun It refers to the lunar winter. C D A, the other semicircle Lxmx vWv, wu' tis, by which things are led to destruction and corruption they turn The whole circle represents the Lunar year The last circle refers to the Zodiac, under which The Sun Moon are in constant motion. It is also important that the same circle of life lasts the unity of each man, nae the goal of life Eighty years. C. A PUT XVII.
The sun and the moon were the light while I believed the heat and the other qualities the mud of yehicjflp drifts to the ground, to each one's thighs mixed veneration of all things with their own things complete the fublunar. PUS nature, opiisin- of intelligence, Philophophus Eat with care, then in everything the bus of natural things defeats, then I won but the mother is in wonder celestial bodies The difpofU of Solis and Luria, and their motions tio rie elucefcit, as or ipfi Ethnici huj ufm odj looking more closely at the work of the muftdanu, certain fumma, ineffable Is in it provi- UittUtU the teeth pretend not to be without reason, because so much order, so much discord, so much harmony giving the gift, so washed away, to blow up a fierce harmony with these numbers they discovered Let us see then; what a feint of such infuriating effects whom the sun had imbued with the rays of the moon with the power of the moon he radiates to the fublunary world, caufae. Refte Phi- lofophllS: rtisih ywntnicsr? Afiaj, iorfin tmiy{ iTiiv aiyiu, Latio makes genera tion indiscriminately, because it brings and takes away the generative principle. For experience teaches that the coming generation of the Sun the retreating veiq manifelias fell to the ground option For while the Sun approaches us with light
more vegetating heat produces more vegetating heat, sprouting ffcirps, young plants to use lhalia cuj ufcumqtie generis innova: fobolis procreation in the fetus, there: In the autumnal season I will win Auftralk ftgnarevivift alone retreating to us, the earth is weak from the distant light, so infcecu ndo ray obliquepercufla defe- When the heat of the thing is born, they destroy it, they fall; as if a kind of fanciful fqualentity of the trees leaves, animals of the cave; fe, hidbulilque as it were the mourners the ornament of the land of ipfaoihni torum fupclleetile fpoliata tcgre light ma bearing a grinning affance, as if in a gloomy mood give amictuveflitafqualet, &mcefldjacet opi damage to the nasal cavity the Moon was destroyed by the Author of the natures of the craftsman that is, it is formed like a circle, which the Sun or nuo, that menftrao con fi ceret fpacio ficque twelve times of the Sun and of the husband conjurtdfa Woe to the woman who conceived the things of Geneffiid, Divifta is also fatttnt by difpofrtion, as the light that the sun in the lower part of the clay in place of conftitutus terris Borea: fuhjeetis com mode commiMcare nbri poffet, all htfjUs light defedlum Luria in Oppofitis the small conflict of the sun, feu Solis vicaria fuppf etet. So the Sun in the sun Capricorno conflictutoLttna ftiblimeffi Can he obtains a leg in the maxiino lumlflls' son incre the chin of the Sun but the base of Cancer Having obtained the date, the lowly Luna Capricor nor will he suffer a stroke in his greatest growth. Thus it happens that the light of the Irish Sun shines on Capri a failing horn, by the light of the Moon ih Can cro fuppIeamr, the light of the Sun in Can With the heat of the heat, I fight through the light "burn" dbtufi heat in Capricorn tem to spin; acfic during the whole year ceffus, and the heat of the sun cis excefibus, and defcctibufque the heat of the Moon let the rice be restored in a strange proportion. curftuiuftic For the first quarter, you stand feu, that childhood: it refrontes, it cools, it is moist; then calidopause therefore, by extracting the moisture, it becomes sticky, warm; which he will restore to fruitfulness, Tef: tid, when the moist comes out, the hot falls; the fact that they own the stamp was the object. fat't of heat, and such is the third act, it will be lightning of cold with the wealth of infirmity the moist is introduced from the trembling not nourishing, or increasing; fedhu crying out for something that is wet phlegmatic, and such is the last xtas, as in The previous figure is clear. Between the ages of your solar year, and your lunar month The difference is that the Sun was in the asftate consuming the more powerful rays the year's warm conftitution, and ficcampro- moves; But I was a moon in the fummo of growth Luna eww vigour, that is a breath of air in thee, a gentler light it brings forth warmth, by which the concrete becomes moist in time flow down, moist multiplication of vapors- lest at the time of the full moon they suffocate: mild au the heat, the warmth of the fire gently acting on the wet, from them it produces moist vapors, which Merely not powerful leaves their epsin ma terie, whence they grow moist, and like light lest they be filled with pregnancy by the husband. From which further it is clear that the Lunar warmth, which from hu mido ftb i nato, communicated to him the man of the Sun safely heated by the miftura of light con it is mocked, the caufameffe of the generation of things; because everything is a fuse in the other world of Magnetus you will find it raised. For the same reason, I left Anomalies Various planets to the earth. r n r net to tussle, relpettulque, and a variety of ano-variety of motions maliamfortitifuntqit accefru, recefiuquead effeiiuum m The sun, the moon, and the earth from various lights And the gentleness of his qualities, he also brings the vain into the interior. they are more effectually protected against see cure! fius de hifce in Gnomonica phyiico-Aftro- logic, to use it in the underground world we will strike Umie elatepatetKttjufniodify4ertirrt pe rivers, motufqiiein the Zodiac l whether the afpecftus among those promoting faith, caufam the elf of changes as well as of the seas and waters; torum, then also the life of the generation, in thee- Fv. numtr, rilttSanimantium, .aprinde this unique
Aftrological efiejudiciorum de eventi- bus tcmpeftatum life of accidents: re the foundation of rum in the fulunary world; to and with it between the birth and the death of the anus intercepted the lives of the evil ones are to be counted, and those who steal are So issue moon period numbers. From here so that by that way Aftronomus was born rum life, death opt imq presedicere poffe: nay, to number the days of each living soul, whose birthdays were important since everything in the world depends on the caufa na tural, that is, from the temperament of the fetus from the surrounding environment. When, for a variety of reasons tate fit of the planets in the sky, fpeciatim- that Sunday and Monday, at the time of conception, of conformation, and the birth of living things produce a light in the air that surrounds us there are various degrees of heat moderated by cold, from them the air, aMeiet. GQnftjfiftiter, tunc Jfrologttf that's for sure er infallible bili three times unlikely three times as much to reveal potcjl. The Inquifition of the Thotifs. then femen, nienftrul two principles con- at the time of conception of the embryo storganization, as well as soft nafcen- the body of the animal is controlled by it to, from which the soul is joined to the body He is strong with the strength of his natures, and so far time determined j fucumb ere po- it is the opposite of the fib, and of the stronger surrounding temperature, which they will be able to produce in the air at certain times such and such will come the rest of the rest in heaven. Because of the coming conflicts of faith great regularity of periods held, by the expert Aftronomis, as it was said They are ancient, even in time, genera tion, and the rise, and to predict accordingly of the duration of each, even if it is due to matter: not exactly indefinite; indeed mate The things of living things are not determined by nature to the king, and to be governed by the flock from behind, and their light and heat, from thence born in the surrounding, fed is indefinite for all changes in the to go, and to suffer from any bulls: in fact, usually from sick parents flowing, it is so badly difpofed, that the left it is not possible to perceive exactly the appropriate forces, or complete with rum aids. For in a different way from the same the matter of the child will be affected by the affection of faith well dressed, otherwise morbid; because quickly by many accidents, the mate is spread differently things which are moved by the circle: men die more quickly with manure, or tar God, than mortals by nature military also other animals. This is also mo therefore they are in charge of all things; because clearly tas in the periodic circle, while for they are dearer, more impure years of life: they give, debilitate things are truer. See what is said about the future we give in the Gnomonica ca. If, therefore, any one should make a set of that as long as a thing is affected, the forces are in a circle I was periodic, ife generated from the whole thing: life it will probably be foretelling. I said try it biliterally, because that is the last of the natural life less, to whom God has made more mum of various accidents, of love, revenge, pain, pleasure, and so on interrupted by the extremity of the age, his life was broken ed he says See, then, LeCtor, how you are alum whether all mundane things with beneficent warmth let them depend, and how the efficiency of light with skill, nothing in the nature of things stands aside. It is concluded, therefore, that we do not know this world the entire participation of the light of Scvi- make a reliable and beautiful sound; bodies, which: in they are so much more perfect, as they share more light. And so the light on in this universal world I am in the best of God It is the greatest temple of any living thing A god and a god of concubines. For he communicates with me; do not be generous with all things tur, in every direction it spreads through all things says, Stcaufa eft, utomniaeoilluftrentur, dt heat up, deform, degenerate, de they are nourished, they are excited, they are gathered together. For while the warmth of fuo penetrates everything, that fan within, and fecundate within, St outside. Lu Therefore, all things are created by participation in threats there, everything runs in circles. And as it were some mind He stirs up this mass, and with a large body moves it. CHAPTER XVIII.
Does expradiEUs poff any basis for the Genethliaca Aflrological conflict? whether the internal potentiz, the fuhjecium of the influences Mana: ON is what we are talking about here bus necefaria with the heart pores coeleftibus con having a connection of whose god are the humours of animals I will plant myself the law also rivers, Sc for the influence of the proper effete rum cceleftium fubje&um, no fana: phi- will deny the falsehoods, dt from the aforesaid fate that was clear. But we are talking about internal powers riorius, whether she: , how. after all the logs want, really influences somewhere capable of right fint What a dispute to resolve; To be noted first, the influx of the heavens into free will is entrusted with a double duty poffe: direct, or indirect. the first which immediately or to perfection tias, or concurred in active production; II. by means of which into something foreign, or the body is ipfum: whence both; double Direct for either it tends to the will, I will print there I give some quality with which to act let him move; or the fimul acts with a will; Indirect, or modifies some object intrenchment, to which the change is effected in by will; or impresses upon the human body certain qualities, with which the natural reason conjunction of spiritual operations material, the will is attracted to the agent while; which also happens in two ways i Prim6, the four humors, or for the cholera increased men to they are provoked to anger. Secondly, the fanaticism of St by disturbing the physical disorders. Since for from Galen, the soul is temperament E heart Book I: of the body, after the change of the body, the affections of the mind also change, flvehxc change injures the spirit of liberty, takes away five; as may be seen in Maniacs Lunatics. De hence arises the difficulty of indirect influence, Or, by reason of this, in some way Touch the sky, incline, attract, move re draw the will Having polished these, I say first, the bodies of the clefts no mediate or direct influence of God the right will, or the understanding of the matter at hand carry: because it does not touch the material as if the main immaterial trunk next to it. Himself cundo, because vohintas is a free caufa, Cce- the light determined for the vein. Thirdly because the order of the nature of the universe, and perfection, required He laughs that the nobler are not subservient to the baser bus: but the rational soul is femper cae I am nobler. Nor who is against us He does, Demones fubftantias Ipirituales fub hence to be moved by corporeal things, as grass, rif a, hypericone, fufrumigiifque; more and more that pofle in Lunatics at the time of the full moon, than any other. For they do not contain it at all it goes because demons, or celestial influences fubftent, or moved by materials: fed or to impose on men, acadeo here to be entangled with fuperllition: or because it is in wax bro humors opprellb better difpofi- they find the forces to force in man to be trained by the bus. But the Magi are certain let them choose the time, if they agree with the dmo do not enter Herbs also re- to perish, contrary to demons, they do not contain it git, that they act formally as demons, to them by impressing the quality of their nature on the contrary, fed because they have op- greedy principles active from demons ap folded whence in exorcifmisfubinde hu Jufmodi was lawfully admitted by the Catholic Church they are I say fertile, for no reason the bodies of cce leftia fspiritual powers, even mediately. zAn eAJlrologous inclinations of nature, by the mjpecition of the ajiros, With the fydera part of the predominance and such dominion for fyde- rum conjunction afpedtu variously there, Aftrologi something undoubtedly from greed they will be able to divine faith at the end of sin, de the child's temperament, etc fola fyderum infpeftione fafa divination as It becomes very uncertain because of other things the things that are stored at such and such a time concurring in concurrence; Because I am inclined Nations are known in the way that they are you drink rum; but you are the most difficult and the most difficult are imperfectly known by Aphtrologists, er- Vars t. and indignant, but to dye, so that even the will in- let the trench be inclined, or moved, dd such
action to be produced. Eft con through the Aftrologos, who are omniscient, volun I didn't really force the state, by attracting the fed through these And because it is evidently gathered from the sayings: and because the influx of celeftian bodies fen- He is akin to the philistines, but not to them because the inclination is intrinsic fecal matter is only removed by some imprefe the fiones do nothing to harm the volun father therefore, also with the desire of the influx that, whatever obj edtipropofltione, vo luntas potell; to act not to act To smoke mum therefore infcelledtus can be moved, in as much as the material phantom of the intellect agent for intelligible species they determine by drawing, but with this itare the will of the will to determine in to be understood, or not to be determined: who neither will he hinder him or prevent him from suffocating the fire, or lest he judge, so as to convert some object and then satisfied with the motion of the intellect, vo- the luntas, nevertheless, remain in the ftatu or indifferent. I say the third; influence the left indirectly to flow into the will, as far as or through they disturb the humors, or the complexion is high ranting or they change indiscriminately. It is proved that mo: because the ratio of the same combination is a Accepted by God, or by nature, and accepted by me aftir diatibus: but the natural combination of indi- return moves the will i therefore. Secondly; because the mode of operation is the mode of ef- split, as a way of effervescing the rational soul into to man, it is like a method giving form poor material, and not even of a dependent with completeness, fed extrinfeca, a ma share the tankards that are being accomplished; therefore also from the causes of such motions, nem on foot from ccelefti body, such a complexion, or they share a hidden quality; fenjithas certo diVtnari pojjit exfold the abundance of the sun and the light go trends; Major, let's whistle together by natural knowledge; from demonic or divine let's start, it's obvious is the minor proven? because they are fertile of such inclinations the caufas are affected by faith, who are so impure ti indeterminate are considered feniper, as in after a hundred births hardly a female has a certain neck are worn It is added that this kind of affection or they are smoked at the point of birth, or in of an inflated conception: but in both cases Errors happen when the heavens are moved He becomes the fastest, who does not see meanwhile fche- but can it be changed? In addition, the concept of ipfa after He is hidden from the afirologist, and of little help to him 'contributes to the child's stay in the mother's womb, or any other of this conception inveftigand mode; when they approach from various sources thus the child's behavior will be disturbed (sup or from the work of the mother, or from food, or from women temperature, to cover infirmities, or from others from day to day accidents. Additions to make a log that the filth has dominion over the child. So the snow gathered together with all the caufis cognizance of the bus, it was effedus by several caufis de hanging cannot be known with certainty: when, therefore, the child is temperamental and inclined to nature let the les depend on several caufis, because nothing can be certain about him; together indeed, the whole body is absent and unknown it is not necessary to adulterate the dictionary. So fal-fo a virologist would judge, a different grain The same town was divided into different places fydere feminatum, Squalem proventum ha it will be bitter; For though it is the same You go, and when you have finished, the same is true of him he is about to perform the effect; because yet for some reason f diverf are concurring, for example grain goodness to you and women, fertility of the land, agricultural Ix diligence, then reason that diverfus con dip effect. Hard stool at birth it is to be blamed if it happens to the fans: : For the temperature of the body by the formative power fe threats, hotter or colder parents complexion, by the food on which it is nourished you will be terrified by your goodness, by your powerful imagination spouse, at the time of conception, depen let them to be enjoyed by others, having known the nature of the child will be divined. Let us give at the same point in time two are conceived in fans, one of whom was well-nourished by his noble father trito, strong nature best mother plexus, and brought up with delicate food; the other
but from a ruftic, weak, cold, and mother in- firm health nourished by food; cer You will be very different from both children temperature, and also diverge frequently to die What, then, is this or that? let him pollute with the goodness of a greater character, that is known ruled by Mercury or other planets than to other partial caufis, namely while it is said in the following book, it comes from i vi He delights in the combination of his parents, from the bottom at the time of the birth and death of the father of conception, from the foods of which the father was fed it is nourished before the generation; Since the greater or the lesser goodness of nature from folly ma difpofition of the greater or lesser organs but the difpofition of the organs from pri the temperature of the sea's qualities; temperature primarily from the womb and the woman, the fertiliser from the elements: for women quality from food, which This is used by the progenitor at the time of conception. as has been said; it is not made from only afterwards, fed by the said goodness of character Pbotifmorum Effeti ia. come from. Whence it is not incongruous that Ga gentle parents who want talented children to procreate, by imagination, of food to that of the elect, together with the election of the time lest he should touch the vow; nothing obftan tib. us however unfauftous, and ingeniif in- feftis fyderum affections, Pr cerea, that Aftrologists attribute so much to Mercury, as pe let us not share the talent of the fool they will exercise power; it is mere vanity. Who ever and where on Wednesday fy- they offered him, the experts of Aftronomi, the mecura all will breathe together, the strength of Mercury with ob he was too young, and his body was very young, I imitate the earthly forty; and because of the rays Solares with which it is almost permanently covered, so because to be shaken and weakened, so that there is hardly any strength in this he should obtain the lower ones; down to the rays of So to have a law in the same way as a drop of wine a barrel full of water fparfa What more? let me tell you, that I should not think that, as for Medicine, Agriculture, Navigation, whose divination is permitted, from folia infpe- ftionc at the end of the latter in comparison with the third ram fatfta, the foretold chicken. Yes, so different ife different horizons nem, utpene Wmh? I think, the same fyde polished rum with some kind of influence what and the like in different horizons he could produce a bus. We see lias parts also more prone to one climate to the rain, to the wildness; in which it rarely rains on some days, on others frequently, generally femme In some of the neighboring countries, too your winds become in other bodies humidity That all the local fympto- mata, not by Ccelo, fed by particular localities nature, montluhique difpofition origin they have a furrow. Yes, the Avenue once frequented more expensive phm, today due to neighboring lakes beyond Almost all the rains of the Rhone the road seems to have been advanced. Hifce goes to the light in the Theme of ccelefti, in reflection of the divers of the horizon, to have a very different faith; so much so I dare say we are hardly 1y. to complete the leagues pofie, when the light is not varied by us, (Futs also produces difpars in houses cleftives In the first place, indeed, the fub ffra the left-handed house flags, at the end of which there is nothing in you can make a judicial ftrology; far away from other lights they are strengthened by their effects, as they are forgotten qua: fub fphsera obliqua others toto clo di- verfos, than the parallel fphra where pr- thirdly, that all the men left their homes He died on the horizon, the influx there was due to the car dino, angles, cupids, no pro- I was able to have power. Truth about here now thousands more fugitive elsewhere. They are, therefore, qu about the boundaries of Egypt, about the degrees of light push, dark, dark ptii k Games shadow of I rescue ptii Arabes Aftrologi: there is no such thing as fe The aphtrologists of noftri conform to the Aphorif- the custom of Ptolemy, and the precepts of the Arabs: these for when the Alexandrians and other ho- rizontium Zona: scorched by the old neighbors ram quality seasoned fint, prepare for us with these they polish to square with no reason; as light, beach return Let the Aftrologists ignore me, I will not fublcribe rum opinions in this place I like it. For when thus compared to me
it happens that it is not easy on any basis therefore fix it with a bow; in the Aftrologic truth exaftiftjma inquifition of many a year I would not have attempted anything, having poured the rum into my room. Part of It with which the truth's falsity I would perish; that, however, when and not until dawn laughs lest they be surprised, let that Aftrology be abandoned I will turn to other more modern ones: for nowhere did the Aftrologists join heaven to earth, and the natures both of the underworld and of hell rum bodies, through continuous experiments, to trace the frequency of obfervations let them know; they will be blown into the air; with leaves given by experience the true Aftrofogia con dere poflit, the truth about hifce in the world ftro fubterraneo, uti in Aftrologia hiero- Glyphica Fufus, God willing, will be treated. Now you will read it here, to the other part of the book let us turn PART TWO SCIASOPHIA S I F THE SON OF THE SHADOW OF THE LIGHT AND INDIVIDUAL COUNTY AND THEIR WONDERFUL NATURE OF THINGS faculties. CHAPTER I On the origin definition of Dmbra, Mbra luciscomes, the other So lis, &Lun fimia, inferior mun my lady JfLmula Dis, Drvifqueprior, Di va ip f a future This eternal snow is lost in darkness and obscurity. This wonderful work of light must be explained we go, I say the shadow, whose ancient if you look at it, it is a noble film; become a genius sharpest; be brave, be strong; be glory most honorable In antiquity it would be so great that It may seem worse to one creator; before for I have the essence of all things He is pre-empted by nothing; then in that Chao, and of the worldly body, Tohu B ohu, some as if the rudiments of a fua were thrown out; and denied that in the nature of the parturient: issued to the end, not by some grace of infancy and childhood dus has reached maturity, fed ftatim to then this universe is covered with rust I was covered with a cloak. Every day the birth was issued, it was great. And it will remain as long as the world is closed china, constantly fusing with the fibi, of the daughter, ab All the contagion of corruption, ca worldly rope a bundle of beauty, the only time of things ries, at the end of which even the world would not be able to bear nor the proper temper of things there is a composition. In this way, then, the question is, what happens? Vitellius in With desire, in the absence of lu He longs to become a shadow of threats; And on the contrary by bringing the light to fail the shadow. And others bi, the shadow of the privation of each one cis exiftente actu preferentie of the light of another in in a dark place Others say that it is deprivation of primary light, and the diminution of fe- Cundariae, according to that of Lucretius. For nothing else can do, except the light of the snow The air is that which brings us shade. quU Whatever happens, keep the opposite light bras, and the obfuscation tem, Ariftoteles teftatur, omnibufque et pri ph most evident But who he changed the opposition between light and darkness, purely private double eb takes care Definition 'fixed Ustu- tnen spleen pain, shine what do you think? privative, or by any agreement gnancy, and whether there is light before darkness If something else is opposed, it must be discussed. The light is opposed to the darkness, as a habit he contrives the former deprivation of Ariftotele. But I was in the greatest entity of darkness find the privation of light, as yet ob- lightness, darkness, and pure darkness of light from every living entity I believe such a deprivation, I cannot be induced smoke For at first the darkness gathers together the living gant, so that the pain, which in the eyes, also too long: they bring blindness; atcrcgation nakedness, mere deprivation veiuti caufa efficient: (we would like to say nifi privation beyond the strength of the effect for lead positive) are unable to proceed. Go rum opposites, sometimes they break each other, resounding, and dulling, the nature of this no matter how much I desire: such is the light ten steals: . Just as a flame is not a fire, fed the body of the miflu with much predominance fire: so tenpbrje also nonluntpura pri vation, led have the nature of life from pri vative, a pofitive entity conjoined: fi
privation, certainly not the shadow of it; however can also be said to be in some way opposed to the light becomes It is possible, therefore, to be double-crossed at this point you are to be trusted: the former nature of the melting pot is deprived tive, is opposed to light, as a habit; name lest it be called darkness: the other is greedy obtaining more effect, light, as it were it contradicts the contrary of the state; and here it is called um bra, which is the most powerful entity, eo that which moves the living, we therefore, om them to the definition of others but we say that the shadow is nothing else than the absence of the principal rays of the Sun, opaque body fkiqne caufatam I said, the prince of the sun's rays of heads, to exclude the reflected rays, who is nothing but a sort of shadow they are ill, directly exposed to the Sun terpofition, to exclude obfcurita- the darkness of the caverns of these, and other places of the Sun Viorum, Therefore, having eaten the tenth part of the light give the bodies not at all privative, ifed pofitive: that they emit no light, this is darkness. Alu mine, and darkness, the offspring of a certain nafcum there, where: use their mothers in the middle of the dia- they are scattered in the dust. From the body indeed at first they shine with bright rays; from the rays of light; I shine from the light of Plendorfftriplendor. Spleen pain indeed is the light of the diaphanous artifice Diminished: indeed the light shines tft, fed umbratili miftura of perverted. A with the True body he brings forth another against the dark one the fobole of the propagation; and first who-rmiraM- the darkness shines with it, where the light shines a rake is placed; from the darkness mini xontrapofita; from obfuscation of the shadow oppofita fplendori; from the shade ni he has a rise against the tori; from the shine indeed, and the shadowing of the ipfa outline. Who all manifested in transparent action they have For they do not fill that: less, how much light did that little number before les, and thus spread the ipfu further, in- that they contract shorter, more fiercely cla they do better; thence they drive the light, and thence a they are driven by the light, they take away the life of many animals; but all the affections For peace, no one is gifted with life and mind will deny For I act and shoot from the forces of the agent It comes from God and suffering: but all strength let their proper procreation be produced from them, and in Efi they fantasize, they are based on it, and they have fun from it they are given Therefore there is no obscurity, no shadow, shade fimplfces of light, and lirn inis deprived tions, fed are true entities, such as they are said to be greedy And the shadow and the light are different gores, of greater and lesser or whiteness, ni thunder, as either a source of light, or of darkness they have been their own thing, or from a source farther back in which light and obscurity smoke they are both. : Whence it is evident, how much ful gores are more sheltered from the light, so much more Trocejjiu cefierinc shadow, diminished blackness, so to acquire the game of whiteness, that everything he will be able to judge. For the opaque, nothing light, and admits no whiteness, light but no black man was admitted. . Whence no light shines through the darkness, and white shines end of any colors; by obfucurus indeed light, and whiteness, and while the heats through they are made, fed more exiles all In the shade indeed, they are seen to be active and cliftant by which they are colored; I will save you from the shadow more clearly everything r epr gfen tat. In the outline n e but in the midst of which I am mift with a shining shadow by giving all things are concluded: but this the difference does not come from somewhere else of light, and of darkness, and of them, which from them to procreate Of which fuse often the image of the dark is clear, so that it is viable a certain third from coloratd, and from lucidum corporeallycontradifflinflum, nothing something else than a shadow; how proper fpeciem vifibiiem, and the image of the body opaque, fertile that which is opaque: that We have decided to confirm these reasons. For at first the light creates a shadow beyond the horizon opacified pus in the genus of living things, tefte Phi- lofopho: after the same Author, not the light creates. nifi fpecies representative of the object living rum: therefore, the shadow is an image ah your husband Book L whose objdli is viable; when the object is alive
the bile does not become, the shadow image lu I did not see the colored light of the body mce ind igi, fed an opaque image from a bright body throw away in the fertile light the imbecile re- fhiflo was born to Ipechir, therefore the shadow is the image rmlra efl' body opaque. Again; the body is opaque forever to send out the bram born in the transparent medium: but living objects in that transparent middle they are unable to issue a formal declaration of faith to him was an image, and a life-like form Part: their reprxfentatriccm: therefore the shadow is nothing it is something else than the silmula erum vifui repnefen- characteristic of the opaque body from which it flows in per- I see Thirdly, the body has an opaque fuarn A living species must be distinguished from a living species of a bright body, and of a colored body in dia phanos, because of light, which is the image of light cis. , the fire of the luminous body, from which it proceeds, in addition to colored fpecies from fepromanan- no third comes from the opaque body, the snow the shadow, therefore, is the image of a specific force she was born to represent an opaque body. CHAPTER II. conc U O N 1A M fpecies cu- regardless of the object below the bright gene is placed it is raked from the object fuo gu bernato apracfentilumi ne, it becomes like a light in the rising run in the shadow of the vcluti partial fcaufa cooperating with the opaque body. For when the body becomes opaque, it is the fpecies of life bili, and so much the shadow of what is more material, nor hil also should be able to act Beyond the fuas forces, de fe procreating another fe ipfo more pratltantly; therefore acting materially, nifi immaterialiguber netur, and the fupra ihitenx the shaking of the fu$ it will be raised, an immaterial effect fe for he will never be able to lead Therefore, the body He cannot produce a dark shadow, how much less material it is; whence in hold the dark breeze casts no shadow: indi therefore get the dark with the grace of light, quickly immaterial form, to produce I was like a living creature. And when the same generally becomes the opaque body and heart colored pus, the same as the body of the ring it is bright and colorful; it is done, as in darkness this may be seen by reason of the light, not of the colored on the day of the fub reason colored, not the fub ra by the light; not a feusopaque body, and It is opaque and colored, indeed, from one side by which it is illuminated, the lamp moves in a colored manner to live on the part of the Sun, that is to say, turn away from me; nori, imbeciles, and illumine light fa, the fub moves the vifuni by reason of the darkness corollary And it is clear from thee, darkness from light into do not differ in the role of the vifion, as Or here The refpexific may be seen in Pfalmifta, while he said As the darkness of the right, so the light of the What? therefore shall the darkness also be light? or at least not they have a light of a thousand feet, &fi they have not, they are light, fed mini-htbm. fortify For it is in the nature of things the son of opposites should be referred to, necef- to be found in other places. It is hot in nature all men fan the matter, and wet and soft, and rare: They feel the same as when they are weak that the opposite nature, cold, fic- when, hard, the perfume: but the contrary to it They are said to be of the same genus trembling In general, therefore, they are also viable there will be two extremes, and those between fe and opposite things, the greatest, and the least, which in cunfti He excelled in various kinds of things: in the genus Viff bi lium, too, are referred to as the greatest living thing read &eff the light of the Sun; minimum viable option the opposite is true, and the earth is black, fire opacity: therefore the greatest of light: the opposite of light the smallest Now then, hold on to the kind of light brae also fint; and the moon and the universe of darkness the smoke of the globe both inside and outside you they deny it was true to bring everything to light to lie down, even in the least. But And this is made manifest by another reason; for all bodies are obscured by some cloak they are imbued with: every color is like a po- emuUaih let color be all things, but color is all becomes light and light, everything that is in They lie in color, they also lie in the light they will Various in the shade of a crane you go A shadow becomes light if it is absent, it will be greater the shadow of a greater light the lesser of the lesser light snow, and the greatest of all generally absent from the light. For we see
But I did not immediately demand light from the darkness to be driven away, fed with the utmost effort for that purpose: it is therefore not in the light only, fed in ipfis certain width of the shadows, intensity, and capable of reparation From here, keep your eyes closed We do not improperly call the bras fat; for in the same frame I increase the parts then the bearers of the quantity received au are born, and not Covered and many bodies in a narrow io when they are narrowed. From this diverging in the variety of increase and decrease Exiftimt degrees of obfeurity: for shadows and the pits of darkness of intensification and remiffing they are divided by inequality; indeed, um the smallest bra is the most obscure of all, But many years are the greatest darkness, which compared to the light of the hearth, the shadow of the lesser light is absent, hold bra but they represent it as obscurity, which are the external works of men he drinks, and takes away both of them. Darkness between and the sun's shadow is the middle of that cre light, just before the rising of the sun the tooth, and the neck is furrowed, which becomes a um bra, or darkness, there is a doubt; between us we receive its shadows, as in Cofmogra- We teach more of the Photophytherica, it will appear a little later. Iftar iftar is different from the obfctirity various degrees of fruitfulness more less they grow strong; for the shadow is fertile It is greater than the first, and the third than fecun give, and so forth, so that the Sun. in the horizon at last the light becomes a shadow; lying down but the sun casts a shadow not at all upon all obfcurum, and then, still so much femper the more obscure, the deeper it is below left the ground, so that the middle node is denfiffi- but at certain times they may be called darkness. From the first of which it is clear that light is made is increased by the reception of another light, so the shade is darkened by the addition of another shade it turns out: for let two luminaries be set forth and this opaque body should be objected to, not in the same straight line was fixed with them; it is clear that there are as many shadows as there are lights they are, to go deep into the darkness. He also teaches experience, a darker shade near body opaque for no other reason fam, than because this place has both lights the nose lacks luster, but the rest of another only; which surely nothing else It is a place that is opaque to the body a double shadow to cover the top. It is clear fertile from the bilge, the light sprung from the first furrow the longer the prolapse continues to languish; and they taught him the great pyramids nations, whose shadow is so fucceffivel- he guffawed, as the extreme and thinner portion you can scarcely distinguish the light from the prison; radiate around but you will find the darkest shade for God's sake you give the reasons diffuse uniformly in the medium miterjta dark bodies of shadow. It is clear thirdly, an opaque body, through which many rays of light minofi intercepts, ed a larger shadow to throw Since. for the shadow of the light which it will be directed in the right direction, and the same will be done in the same way the ipfgetia of the light will be the result of the shadow. Like there the light is so much greater, the more there are contains the rays, and the object tenfiusiluftratur; so the shadow of the place is so great the lower it is, the more it contains the rays of the shadow the pit, as it contains the shadowy rays, as prevents dark lights. Therefore. CHAPTER IV. THEN the light it is alive, unnamed race in the nature of things exhibits skills, so shadow: indeed We are proud of our founder so connected that fi al destroy the earth, lest the world perish it is done For the world of fublunar, use he will not be able to confess at the end of the light, so nor the end of the shadow. To be truly a shadow He will choose the various worlds of the world dark pores as if from frequent ipfis He ordered the confederates of the shadows to check F ambient Exp ritntid It is worthless of shadows i Book I surrounding light, and inhibiting shadow they would make From here all things are dark and in faith. darkness, and to others shadows, obscurities, and the law-makers shed darkness. I'm wrong too cmmquoad the mother of arms and all the dark ones one of the greatest and darkest He wanted to make it round, like the shadow of the light and poor people better receive fet. Hence the sun's light on the earth
not to be lost, the same also through the darkness not the turns of the fires, not the years, no menfium, fed days, and hours we see the leader. For while the sun rises from the a period of twenty-four hours in the rising it is turned round again, the universe you were the light rays of the earth He fights in the shadow of the sword and the sword; e-rays nor do they approach any part of it the darkness is driven from thence, and what darkness they yield, the light is driven away, I was deceived by a kind of perpetual vicariousness giants, and flee: and when the furnace is in the light, we call it a day; and while in the dark, no as And indeed I listen to nature for a day taxes, occupations and people, no- But he ascribes the day to their rest. Sa- tmbrtTer- pjcnlqfplme therefore the shadow is ordered. first Hni mo, to make the rays of the earth effective ciffime percuffie, heather and shade no (The winds were to be moderated. Secondly, as the air ni my light was scarce, nocturnal once more he was frozen by the coldness of the shade I was so kind to the land of humor would revive Thirdly, as here: they will perform the operations of hours, days, and days, j and years, like some difcrimes, and the goal of the beginning, and the defining time- i rum Fourthly, as the magnificence of the Founder in that greatest of the faiths, the Moon, the Planet rum, fixed and laced with ornament (which: o the end of the shadow in the light of the Sun they would lie shrouded in perpetual darkness) oftend- return For who ever, God forbid this He will shed a shadow, in so many mysteries ture's notice, how many have already been molded with its help at night, let us offer the fummo futum, while that admirable light, and others beauty, efficiency, and variety we contemplate, will it be possible to reach? You see therefore, how much for us from a single earthly heart Part J pores emanate comfortable shade. What happened lest they be so great as to prevent light or shadow from us plusprofitmefdam But not the earthly group the inhabitants complained of the Providence of the Founder so are the days and nights around the earth at all times of the year, and in all places so that there is neither light nor darkness the light of darkness at any given moment of time they were everywhere. For if all hor then light, n of light, and of darkness, into one fimul pankipami time is gathered, there is no place on earth it will be found, who from the same through the fex menfes ad I will hide the complete darkness, but through the forest the light did not rise. Because, however, a man born of the chief nobility of the country the quality of all that is in the lower carteUm so they are, it is converging: nature: also femPerPlui He wanted to be unfaithful, so that the earthly body would be more dark He has no light, which he would obtain from darkness. bra, which is like a kind of privation of so much good it is, it will cause damage to things; therefore atmo- At first nature made the fphaera: the anchor, so that the refracted rays of the Sun may pass the Sun more quickly for the horizon, which will really make it, go out they would drink He received this wonderful creation the variety of puffs, which is not dark civa denfitas somewhat moderated, in nations bring benefits to the world: fub pole for I have a perpetual confection of my heart You shake the bag of fire and the doubtful light into the darkness brings He also crushed the Vicars of the Sun Hold the moon, and the other, as in its absence they would mitigate the horror of the beasts. Hincfadlum it is that the Moon is our Lady so effective the sooner he should act as the sun it will be longer: I have experience cet, at that time, that is to say, in Ireland, when the greater the darkness, the more the moon and longer and to illuminate the earth more effectively; fub polo con the light of the moon that is, through the whole potted plant recompense the sun's wind from I will vent But let not that perpetual Moon: pr- too much humidity would hurt the earth nature has dared to defend shade, while the shadowy part of the lunar body is towards us turn, the light of the Moon turns so far, and make the earth equal in light and shade: fer- green Which: all the greatest divine creations are the arguments of hAys Sciognomica. CHAPTER On the Sciognomic Art. The wonderful nature of shadows compared to trees and plants? places
metals? their sctognomy. I nature does not lia of the caufa, how to controlling the heat the matter will be settled, this fuflkerepotuilfet Who how grateful she is pleasant, but not useful while men were fed and fed to brutes, and let the entrances of the shadows fall, while the body Nothing is easier to do with these things than to inrefiZt- rftauring forces in shady places com- to be moved? The ash trees where he began to fpare um arms And slender nods at the top of the mountain, The laurel leaves the arms of the beggar Etejie and gentle, (j fomno softer breeze Jylva's murmur broke through the loud refonas. How did the entire army come together? they stood gratefully, as with divine honors rmiu brofas platanos from Xerxes, ilZlZ as the Authors deliver. True as a shadow ta xttcitum Let's proceed a bit more easily with the advantages of rum, first held of the quality of them, by which they are most frigid, sometimes faint, non- never even harmful to humans, animals and let us offer fuilfe. And it's amazing it may be seen by someone, as a shadow, pri fusing in a kind of vain nature, so diverse the effect of alteration on human bodies, what kind of cattle does he want to produce? And let them make the headache so much that the pains If any one lay them down in the grass Paradoxes of this kind to be explained; , it should be noted that air for this nature the elf's title he was a fool, as if the tariff were to be broken let the fubfantia be gone: and again, fimul and ra to those gods who rarefied faith through an opaque body ris was deprived of interposition, out of rare tate in denfius the body coalesces: for it is the skin to make light rare, to divide, to expand, so r to freeze, to crush, proper by ZlT' eft- From here it happens, as in the shadows, for the most part that soft cr aura frigidiufcula', feflis, jeftuque foiu fjfnmlbrotis bodies, let us enjoy the grace Since for phytocil the shadow of the necephalarium of the air four condensations, and into narrower lo with coardtation; it becomes as if the air were compressed, lest a place is left empty somewhere, another fuc- take in the air from all sides and out of the shade He will violently attract the confederate, from which I see by the strong attraction of the air, the stirring, from the drive the cool breeze of the air it must not be finished And this is what I have done the reason why we have kept it as much as possible, thanks tilfimufque men's favorite air he will take over the broth. But now it must be explained also, for what reason At last, only new qualities spread with passion. now falutijerx, now nox'ue diA counts Just as among the plebeians Philo those who fan the shadow they think the elf is some purely selfish thing tur, because it is imbued with various qualities; now yield, now yield, let them be found; so that among the learned they are not a little confused, who, I think, is a pure shadow deprived of light they pronounce the elf abfoliite. Since for the strength of the state was strengthened by each and every one let them rejoice, that is, and conf, as in the previous ones of we go; it becomes like a shadow like a tree trunk cularis to the quality in the shadows impreda run the production of rum. How but I open to the Poles that this should be done. Therefore the shadow must be known in two ways. I trusted him; another among the places of the Sun in-Kmbra and- accelfa, cujufniodifunt umbrs incra ddme- rMa" the walls of figs, as of rooms, con keys Help another elf in the middle of the light it was hollowed out by the interposition of any one. Opa but the shadows of those who drink, again in finished almost multitucld variety, as a wall then they mended houses, temples, the shade of divers trees. We're just talking about trees here let us speak briefly: for the fub hifce the accumulation of said qualities is discovered. But there are trees of various qualities endowed with these things, as is well known, as the shadow; they participate, it, qutc is made by reason. iciogno- Book I. (Lars Sciognomics is the foundation of art. From the trees while the warmest rays of the sun percuflx flow, it is done, as this xftu humor in the lower parts of the trees, for example
liis, exiftens, this xftu dilated the matter would expire with vapors: hence the xftive teripore the leaves of the trees, for the most part flabby, let's look at how exflcated; but the steam here air imbued with the natural quality of the trees the same infects the confluent here; mixed here the shadow of the air, as a fubj ecto more beautiful, as if it were cold to my heart, lest too much of the Sun's xftu diflipatos vanishes, fuapte he asks for a bridge; who live with men and his gftu will pore over the loose bodies, own fubftant contagion, or buy them light, or harm for diffufx it brings about quality. And this is fun damentum, with which I rested the rest of Art Sciog- nomicx rules here in favor of the Phyfics, as the shade of which trees: to be held: , which: to be avoided: innotefcat, fubjungemus. (First. vmbuar- Many of those trees are airy of these of the eras life I will be I will give the nature of the umbrg huma they are not harmful to the body, Pyrus, Pomi, Cy- JEgyptii the old ones Donix, Almonds, all Aurantiorttm, Ci- of the three which genera, and indeed so much things, the more benefits they bring to man. Indeed, these vapors are expiring with vapors naturx, idefl, very close to fspirits; whence and to them the spirit was heated, con the human limbs are strengthened in a wonderful way ranted Hence it was the custom of the Egyptians, as om lest those diseases, whose by the disturbance of the spirits, nefis, melancholia, phromia, vertigo, trip flushes; a kind of diflipative power of trees You are the shadow of the powerful enemy bita to take care of foliti fint Of those trees whatKjw? Greeks call Tilia, Plata whether, the People, the Elm, the Ash, ipfa na ture to no other end and the shadow of the mind was relaxing It seems productive to promote. Of which indeed, the shadow of the same heart the pores affect the quality by which the ipfx fuses. From here the shadow of the lemons is shining in the wonderful heart he will bring the Arabs to Albucafi. apple under the grace of all the pious shadows of Tabis the moisture in the lungs, which they exhale, prxfcribi, reports Columella, fic about others. Rule Two T Oea the shade of the falutiferous grass, Rofis, Thyme, Oregano, Thyme, Mint, Tlatta: that tree trunk jam bus they have power medicine Example wonderful god some kind of in pain Nardo, and other plants of the genus fpecies confita, while xftu refolutx falu You were cold and vapid in the shade of your breath they infect the air, the same human body it has been found to strengthen wonderfully, and fin- gluttony, indeed, of the members, in that quality, which im oxen naturally desire, so in the shadow of Car of the deacons, of the breath of the heart, of the lungs, to the lungs and chest; hepatic cast nori, Venus of Aphrodite, and others to others limbs, in the shady air and in the middle impreffli, they contribute wonderfully. Hence the ipfa ani the evils about the time of twilight, when herbs tend to evaporate most of their strength to use and in the shadows of the most fragrant meadows we see that it is like this. He confirms the same the example of any adolescent, which with his mouth and as if he were speaking to me Henry Corvinus reported the famous Romx botanist; for he said growing up every time I was in a certain place in the garden that was not green less than the shadow of the shadow with whom he would revive, so often with such vehemence He was driven by the whims of his lust, as if he were a fool I gave him an itchy body, driven by affection it would seem to be a contraxifle. It happened but as with the brother Corvinus, the noble Sepla- Farias, at a certain time, giving more friends to him he would return to the pavilion. What was fuipi- the dog shows the place of the fibi; where I flower the whole place of the satyrs in a kind of whose name we shall withhold, I would fill in he found, when he found nothing easier for the expert He was a botanist; how much I drink so strongly to fix these symptoms. He also reported this herb is so powerful to the Venereos to wake up, as if held by the hand with the manifest danger of shock explains: so that it is not surprising, Vene really tampotenterfuiffe driven, who grass the same genuine fable so frequently by spending a great deal of money, he had blown (Rule Three. The heavy-smelling scent of many trees
the matter of the fpirants in the shadow of the head noxix are, as all fspecies of pines, Pinus, La rix, spruce, terebinthus, cypress, Sam- bucus: for too much vapid exhalation the head and the brain stumbles, the pain and causes pains in his head, as if they take their arms unaided longer, no runt, examples will be clear. From here who fub hu- they slept in the shade of the trees, or They stayed longer, these generally VlrU C severe headache and pain we see it contract. For the spirits of bituminous trees They slept in the middle of the shade of nine trees of this kind while the ingredients are being raised to the head, they will die Xima Wonderful for prietas La you! fear of course Pe Itcnofa- um tree matter in the shade itthifera immediately of Nape shadow t bifer a. mountain la seas zArs Sciogfflica
they give birth there with symptoms. I have seen some which was sheltered by larch, pines, and firs lying, they were so burdened by the smell of it, that He contracted a fever in many cases in bed affix hxferint Charles Clufius also in were Exoteric, in America the Larch-genus effe delivers, fub whose shadow they sleep they are invaded by such a powerful delirium that they wake up acting out of faith they smoke; to act as other Prophets, some soldiers, some merchants, each one that to act at that time, for which he the natural incites the progenitor, those powerful leaves the expiring power and the shadow of faith more powerfully effective brofo Mandragoris, Solano, Stramonius, ex ter i fqtic foporiferous herbs confito, fopore I was rebuked so deeply that I could not escape They will be excited by the most extreme measures. The gate delivers. And in Stamonius I fumputo a copy in a thousand We saw you, who invited travelers to drink tatos, paint, herbs, wine, wine, and he was so inclined to lie, that indeed he Thargo contract fimul life goods ce they gave to robbers; some not much in time they would return to faith, but in all things politiated Rule Four All trees have a poisonous quality as the shadow of those who diffused it lethal, and fatal are to be avoided, cujufmo- di funtNapellustracemofus, Stranaonium, a certain genus of Tytimalus, and Casterxque Aco fpecies of splendour: for in the shadow of these there are none the game rested with impunity. For I spread poison and when the beasts were loosed, I do not hesitate, I miss them so much tia adfertfymptomata, utftifi early o. c run, as fast as they can escape. Taxi The shadow of Pliny the Teftaeus is also destruction the law, so that even the food fub kills those who capture them; whence it is not incongruous to forfanToxicum from Ta xo deserved the name. Botani examples of this there are almost innumerable of us, out of many We will discuss a few things. This is a certain mountain of all those who cin the plains of Rome gunt, by far the most prominent, in the Tyburtine field incumbent, named Januarius, commonly known as Mon you Gennaro In this fummity of the mountain two not so long ago the goatherds were raised by the tree in a certain way within a short time it was extinguished they have been discovered. While the doctors were examining them they draw the death knell, omni- they find them destitute of plagues and wounds; the bruised faces of the Nephew whose poison is hidden At last the information came to light. But while no one knew the quality of the poison I fixed my head with surprise and found it more leafy. At last they died, supported by the rufticians, who they know the nature of the mountain well, runt mortis caufam fuiffe napellum race- the mofum of the most virulent poisonous bush, in not unfrequented by the foliage of this mountain, ftib whose shadow cftuantcs fefeproftrlverant and sleep filled with violent evaporation they had fallen asleep forever and ever. Which by example, the rest of the hunters were warned of the shadow to flee from such a bush as Lerna they began Similar examples are reported by Herrera of the new Hifpania, in which the trees grew so much It is said that the tough are to be found, so that no one goes unpunished, and the end the danger of their shadow he was satisfied; without ipfa the animals of nature to withdraw from each other as much as they can. All the herbs that grow on them are ve-lhndu nenofas, of the letter faculty elle. Mathio- ipfa umbras lus also in Hiftoria fua of Aconites, plum- -biferas
things in shady places where great Aconite came out, extinguished. He tells me he was surprised at- Herrera in Hiftoria Americx in the new kingdom The pomegranate tree Aquapun of such powerful virulence as Hifpani first the shadow of his death, unaware of the fatal possibility Lying, the inftar of dropsy the swelling of many limbs would be removed. Barbarians, naked or drunk fub ipfa staying longer, broken too much swelling of the skin of all fufisinteftini, mife- by rando a certain kind of death he learns Whose reasons indeed the slow steam of the tree and the pettifer I will throw a mighty force on the shore to swell it I will give him, no one who knows the foundation The sciognomic has been searched more closely, du must be bitten (Fegula Fifth. YTAllesquoqueumbrofasmetallica exlpi- uetaiiicts on account of the fetuses in different places, different evaporation in men dwelling there fym- lroJa It is well known to introduce ptomata. From here in the packed, til- also in the fields of Arphenicus and merciful spirits not with the tumultuous courts, twenty-five nights At the end of my life, danger dwells. Exp but the reasons from Antimonius Sc. Fulphure, in except in the night air, while the pores of man they are full of body, and no end of man is hidden fpe they remove from the middle: so that even from here the caufa is clear, Why are some places so endearing to men? shrill; and why many in the fields and mountains fub god the sleeping paralymphs, with the trembling of the whole of the body, and of all the members with a wolf, it is no other than a caufa; the metals hidden there are invaded. In Andi I had a lot of vomiting, and other things tic symptoms occur, not due to An- the rudder and saltpetre, the brain and the ftomachus the supply of the infectious agent; why the best in In the fields of the Romans sleeping especially during the night F j nut. Why? notturntts er ceftimo air so no xii fint. Lucinia why is it important] Ash VapeUttt mv. Coe. io
Book I. art air nut; because indeed the Sun is active in a great way from the cavernous earth. a quantity of exhalations soaked in litacies pulls, which is con- sedated, and shaded for a natural breeze reduce the fo air while the pores are sleeping they enter, with their own fubftantte contagion fan- they infect and corrupt the wine, which I malign the corruption of february fevers, but that these are the diflorution of the native heat, and finally death is finished. On Sympathy and Antipathy Shadows for fympathy, or antipathy of things. It is certain that bras also vary. They are um brae who is friendly to animals, who is I will give to the enemy. The shade of the ash is like a bundle of wood friend, indeed, to those who kill, tefle Plinius, it is hostile, as by fire rather than by let them pass over its shadow: and indeed first certain, after the last experiment had been made we knew it was wrong. They know this power slaying the enemy and Quadrupedia, then Volucria, which; omnifub of this tree they live in the shadow with impunity. Lucinia also he loves her most of all: when The nymph becomes his antipa with the Serpents thia, within the shady branches of this, as if in He lives safe in a fortified citadel against the enemy and the beast From here there is no shade that is not from it is desired by some animals, by others but let the bus run away. For the shadow of the Ash Pliny Tefte, as a friend to all animals, so poison is almost an enemy to all, Ta but the law, which the Arabs mu they call it wrongly, while in Theophraptus they do not perceive the difference between the first a mouse, the second a rat it makes a difference We returned to Naples in the morning. for on this day you will die from the roots put the right of the bush floating in the pollen ctas, an antidote to those infected with the poison of the fennel provide medical candidates. The shadow of this is friendly to snakes, toads, infdftif- qiie virulent, as their poison is there He will be strengthened, but for all living things enemy bus Cocao NovaHifpantefrutex is from cu This drink is popularly known for its fruits The said chocolate is done; this herb is so The shadow of Eban disappears, as if this were the end let him perish in indignation, nor the shadow of the snow
his adolefcerepoflit From here almost no one hu jus grass bush (tefte Fr. XimenesHerre- ra, Lacto) it is repeated who does not ftbi adj let him have an ebony bush for shade tem, and against the Sun they will defend the trees theme The said authors also mention the de- certain species of Ari, the fruit of which is in the form of bAienm. Protruding cylinders, while not bearing the sun nature can make the leaf long and fu- bent over like a canopy so woven-- life, so that the sun's rays become more insensitive: for the sun's or tive, meridian, and western is thus obtained, as from no part of the beam you would touch it poffint; but Borea was a free wind takes an open leaf; it seems that Arum noftrum to have something similar, so as to examine the matter will have you There are also herbs that are very strong they love the certain shade of trees; so Poly podium, Scolopendria Quercui individuals bind Adiantum, and Cymbellaria of the shade fountains on the walls; a number of fir trees Bris Thapfia, Herb Cuculi, Cotyletum; But the shadows of the taxon are Aconite every ge they are friendly to you. There are also shadows; um the opposite force; thus the pain in the head, which in Who contracted the shadow of Lugland? I will give reason to be softened soon where the shadow of Ti- It has been proved by experiment. aSchenckio, and others. Experience too He taught that those who were born from the morpho of a rabid dog Hy- he contracted drophobia, and fanned the shadow Horned, he in the same irremediable recur three times. This wonderful force was offered first in a certain Lugdenenfi in as the Author of the Medico-Philosophy Pentagon tells for# is&ntor# mr bra single tile vcrfalis ar tis Sciogno gently tells Again, whoever fub shadow, where copiofa Tora came out, sleeping with poison the smoke caught his breath, the shadow in which Antora came with a poisonous breath it will eventually fade away. Whence such a rule should be the sea can which: the shadow of any tree come out, the harmful is driven away, dif- and the shadow of another antidote herb is cast. For as faith has the strength of a plant within one fumpta to the force of another i which he is engaged in, thus and vapor, the fire of one breath, the vapor of another as you can, the same disliked
And there are things that concern the physic of the shadows We thought that the efficiency should be said, as quan the shadow of each thing becomes important to you, from the let it appear in the middle of the night; and how great such a nature: you are a liar of a shadowy nature let them hide themselves, let all see. What they were to be cut off from the battle line; she is great phyfiologists of new obfervations before to give this lifeless occafion to the wolf, I have no doubt that no one will judge Juec correctly I think it's a bad idea. But now about the shadows phynca diflertation to diver colors tamer PART THREE OF NATURAL THINGS S I V about color LIGHT AND SHADOW: son, QUA AND CHROMATIC ART It is said PREFACE ERTUMeJi, none in J this Jublunari of the world your body is so transparent that is not a certain fibiad have a junffa opacity, to be found; where Confequpn- There would be no third fi in this body opaque to the world, nor the reflection of light, or refraction of the same in different mediums, none also in the world besides the first color that world created by light, the future will be visible it is certain. With true color removed, all in the world it is not necessary to destroy the living creature; when everything is viable the snow is not fpcclled by the colored fuperfice; nay not even the bright body of the Sun can be seen, the snow that would make it dark, and would make the living noftum fifter. Whence it will become clear, neither the light nor the end of the shadow, nor the end light the shadow by any reason ejfepojfe, totiufque that you may be led away from him by one or the other, and neither the world to be said, not to be admired for the beauty of nature tudofub the living is poised to fall by any means. who- What, then, can be called in this world, I do not know by a shadowy light, or a bright shadow fpe- It is handy. When, therefore, the color of some dark body ris affebtion, feu a certain light becomes, a genuine fi- of light and shade boles; we decided to discuss about him in this place, so that an ornament of worldly beauty,
and how wonderful it is to be done in nature with his help fint, innotefeat to the curious reader. Whereas in Many good Philofophia fubjscti anyone's notice he must be excommunicated, whoever of him that he is to be stirred up by affections; therefore we Completing the precept of philosophy, on definition We will learn the Chromatology of color. CHAPTER Book I. Part
CHAPTER X What happens to the color? I color YTHAGORIC the matter is nothing else than inQctvmr, that is, fuperfi- they believed what a swagger you have bantur color fuper- they have faith as one being: fed when these are the same, use one ge they arise from negation, and thus from the same corruption they are abolished: everything and color and fuperfi- they come together, with the color of the fig tree and vice versa. Therefore. Plato but a certain kind of color He wanted the yellow light to shine, while it seemed to him a kind of flame and lightning Their bodies are shining, they have parts tem vifuiad adapted to be vented, defined thought Albertus, with a flash of light lest a certain quality should remain in the heart you express the qualities arising from the pores, that it becomes like certain materials of color, his but form, and act, becomes light. Conf rmat au I will form my opinion on these arguments. Because colors, when I rose in the clouds of the dawn, in Peacock feathers are distinguished, besides light, they had not another cup; therefore from the light they do not differ, and certainly they will say well, f these those colors are by no means true, and real, fed pu in fact they are apparent, but they are not to have their own caufas, demonftrarepotuif- lens Iterunj absent the light of the uniyerfa heart they obliterate the pores: therefore no color before the light The threat of the attack is confpicuous: therefore color is the same as light. Reply to this let's see, in the absence of light, the colors to litefcere, to be redeemed with eyes, but not with things ipfis, for they are of faith, and the galls live in nature even if they are not drenched in light. Better. .a, , is therefore an Ariftotelic definition by which color im defini- there is nothing else he says, than n m that m JiitQaws. ;lj 7xt mjtu a pun(, that is, motive of it, which is the most perfect, and that is the most important nature Color therefore moves the middle of the dia- bread, which is already in the light of the light-- tur: and color is distinguished by light, which the light, while moving the transparent medium, it makes the image perfect, but the color is misleading actually illuminated, so as to move it; nor it is supposed to be half before that time born, which is moved by color; fed by one and at the same time that it is infected with color it is also supported by light, that, I say, light mine, which I can see from the body in color the living is released, and the color of the image it carries the seed and the form. It is also quoted elsewhere tus Philofophus says color nyj. S-Mtil&. (ju( m ir tc! oaerrp term dia- phanis in a defined body, terminated by fire: which limit should not be fufufuperficiesfumi abflute. as the Pythagoreans smoked it, fed in so far as it is viable; I live alone a reliable color resides in the border of the body; for the colors of the mifts let them penetrate to the interior, but not to him they polish the fubfenfu to fall, the snow in the extreme fu- completely radiant Qftod fi fubinde colors in the depth of the gem}, of others- which mams of concretions, as in fuccinoin- cluFg mufe, calyces, ant, and other similar things Perpetual commandments are fulfilled: it is done for this reason, that bodies of this kind do not nino opaca fint, fed from some part diapha- na. Whence it is not surprising from the depth of co their lore also emerges, therefore color does not properly become light, still a great relationship with him in It is found that many have: for while I was like light, so I was like color gives birth, and by passing through the middle of the when it spreads, as will be seen. v; tfereH Which force belongs to no one else. It is the conveyance of light and color, which is through Emini. fear, but this will not pass through with the grace of light fuy the sphere of virtue is carried: and in fact the femper is livable; power, but I am not a supporter of light. CHAPTER II. Of the manifold variety of colors.
HiLOSOPHl all colors true and apparent di- They came to see fpf: of the truth two extremes, three middles, three also composed of these; but of the rest the color fable has all arisen from these I find the beef. Of the former race are the whites, black, the opposite of the fibi, and thus the whole, ute0 or! m they go, dilated in diameter: from these the whiteness you are dearest to the light, it is nobler to hold the black bris nearer. Hence how much any thing is filled. the whiter it is, the closer it becomes to the light; quant On the Chromatifmis of natural
the blacker it is, the more dark it becomes. There are three middle colors, yellow, red, and yellow blue And from here on the two extremes together with the three means, all the rest: colo the rum of whomsoever mifture they emanate. Ex but by means of three means, indeed, I red Himself with yellow aureus: from red, Se cceruleo, crimson; cx yellow fine St blue, green com- it is placed that which uses the most perfect word of all it contains miftura, so to all merit it is most grateful to be scolded; and the same in the eye lis, that in the ears a tuning fork gratiflime of all confonantiacaufare it seems z Analogy of things with colors. White Yellow Red Blue Pure light Dark light Colored light Shadow Light Light shade Moderate shade Dark shade sweet Sweet temperature Acid Fire Air or ether Dawn: the medium of Water Childhood Adolescence Juventus Manhood understanding In my opinion An error Persistence God Angel Man Brutus Net Parent Mefe Paramefe Black Darkness Darkness: Bitter Earth Old age Ignorance A plant Hyphae. Moreover prjeter hofce medios, ipfo Philofo- pho refte, no other fspecies of colors jucun give is given perfectly: as many as the rest: are, ex Hifce eight, of whomever the fimplices, three we have said that they are composed, they are refulgent. Two out I have an easy time with the media Bion, whom they do not change so much as in they tend and let go. White choose the others that's it; black oppresses by suffocating: hence to al bum fe has to darken the light. Yellow Vero, red, and cxruleus fe have to al bum, as a shadow to a greater or lesser light private light TUVUI' Yellow is the next light color in Crocus Val it shines from the diluted water, from the inner light. St the smallest transparent part of the air is born in appearing cohm Irt the verdure of verdure, from the body pro- vm' xime approaching the transparent nature, as it will be called poflea; and contains fub the family of those who descended from him Variaco-modes are yellow, red, red, mufteline, ! lomm gene- ferrugineus, pulius, roanatus, tanatUs, regius, ra' leonatus Red color from the ends Zubem diffuses from shadow and light and participates, fub Fe has red, rofe, rutile, rubicun while dicum, fiery, flaming red fe- the blue one who has a black fead yellow skin to white, or fig shade to you Nebras; fub fe has catfium, feu lead, blue Composed too fuas have accidental color diffe- Mna. rents; golden fub, yellow St red Compreumcolo it is divided into orange, pink, and yellow. Under the influence of UnTpmH red, brown, grassy, grassy, marine nut Under the purple are rofaceus, balafius, and dedJiri amethyftine, purple, violet, baphi- because And of these others, St others, who with innu- mere fint, as the names by which they are called they fail, so that they are left in the river of chaos mouse Let it be sufficient for us, as much as it is human The weakness of genius allows, of some ma the reasons for the meeting are affected by this treatment really As for lights and colors, all the rest to recall the kinds of beings, their degrees fub the figure here attached declares the fate, which I have a certain analogy with lights It will be clear to him that he has colors, who is one with al he had properly prepared the ground. The visible colors are called G mum, who is not of the dark, the miftorumquc they flow from the body's body parts; fed from different transparent bodies I have met in different ways; and they are different fspecies of this kind. And they call some Philosophers appearing to them, five because true colors are not thought
fed only from diverging light miflura, otherwise and in another way they will blush. We, however, have none we smell a purely visible color, fed true colors, true colors the law, and obtaining reasons, as it may be called poflea. And first there are those colors which light the dawn They appear in the clouds in the sky, which sometimes red, fawn-yellow, sometimes Artis magna Book I. Part 1IL than csruleos, sometimes obfuscos, and even to use the opaque ones, to see the others in a different color although Here also belong the colors in the iri of, and visible halos, and colors divers shining on the surface of the sea. Then of that brilliant color in the feathers of birds It is caused by the radiation of the sun. the third color which the Sun passing through the different colored glasses on the wall for the diversity of the colors of the glass. Fourthly, the colors in polyhedral glass are made from various colors reflecting by the refraction of light: of which om it must be said to them, and to the clay, that I was admitted randi light shadows more clearly pa let them die CHAPTER III. Copper Or And the colors appearing in the air and water, eommqtte caujis, effects, ufu is made in Art nojira Luc-umbn. No colors twice NTER appearing co lor es, feu pha ntafticos nu they deserve the colors in the cloud bus, fub the dawn in ae really colluding, who are not so the fancy ones it is only so that you do not believe it appearance fuses, and accounts to obtain. For when they infest their own body, namely fa eioir exhalation, which is allowed to pass through the vapor together with luminc transfparet, not fantaftically, fedve- re, &really for the denftity of the medium, now differently and they appear differently. For if the exhalation is futile has been he will die; become fat red. Yes watery, clothed with a blue veil fe fpecfandam he will provide; be earthly, in fine, a gloomy cloak it will be good So you see the fruitful quality in the clouds, the color of the light must be varied. Since but the cloud becomes a body; it is also reasonable to eritmon phantaftically; therefore real Au-liter colors The colors of the dawn are shining rose from var ja uc js shadows miflura in the air like in the middle of denfiore by refraction to be done below We will teach: For the sun is below the limit of au with the dew, the air will be darkened: whereas x is degrees from the horizon, because of the deeper shades of the early morning air It will be useful to see what the blue nepheus is referring to. about the middle of the dawn because of the equal light um- brsparticipation blushes: near the end of the ve dew of twilight because of the thin shadow of the air of the light nor admiftamflavefcet, whom a little poftlux be made, of which the infequentives fufius. Ac- experience etc. Similarity Therefore, the same thing falls on the clouds as on the waters fections: For if I water a little crocus you dye, you produce yellow; fi tincture fue rit more abundant, red; but it is a small country covered with water, gray; fi most, j am he will acquire a dark face; true air the same things happen to the glass balls with which you are filled I sometimes meet with the incident sun of the sea a dog, sometimes blue, sometimes a thing fubviride fpedatur Of what reason are the colors ma- it is diverse: and first of all, their pro- ns of the sea differ the waters, and the colors of the waters: so the sea of men of God's fun and the whole thing became green, with the figs of various seas The tracts of the Mediterranean, which are commonly known as lePraterie they call it: the sea that merges with the red bottom, un He refers to red dates, as Erythraeum: but the sea imbued with a deep dark color it is given, as the Euxine sea, therefore Nigrum vo cat Therefore, for color, I dug the bottom of the sea acquires a colour, which, however, is not immediate te in ipfa water, fed in the bottom of the fubj is eaten. And this is one reason why the sea diverges the thread may be seen imbued with colors. The other the reason is that light is conveyed through the air, which is rie refrada refers to different colors. It happened from the deep sea such colors reflect back to us rarely, with such ipfie clouds they lean upon him they are soaked. I therefore color the various caufas it is the rum of the sea. Hence when I come from the opposite side of the Sun the ray of the sea in the distance, purple it is done; for then the red is mixed with blue, who mixed with the exhalation of the air, it flows. Why do I kill the sea at the best time? this (On Chromatifmis the nature of another.
it glows with this color, with the greatest exhalation Discolored by the heat of the day, the raised clouds took over. atni cxm- QLiryerdaer, remote places, ad. which; A living ray cannot reach the sky they are to be seen as much as possible; etfi of this variety they have attached various caufas, however no one ge it seems to be attigiffe. Some in fun while Retinse was imbued with crule: color; no to no one in the will of the Creator; others in the air they cast down the nature of the caufain. What are we let us express ourselves in a few ways. (where all the blue appears} iAv. thoris C Then we should die, nothing alive of the sky co- O j-j. jjg to see the color imbued with the polle "but he does not lemer into dark bodies, bordered with colored fupercies, fedin the infinite fpatis of the air lack of opacity, as with the sky ferenum, or the remotest of the lofty we think of the mountains; lest, as it is often said, due to the end of the term ction, an immenfo to him a transparent fpatio from nature a certain color was due in which I live, lest in thee the wine and nothing would go away, it would be terminated; but this color is not white, yellow, red, etc could, since these colors are closer to the light they require the ventilation of the object, in order to be seen (fl for those things which are close to the light; so that matter the motifs are akin to darkness, whence co lores bright, cimi not snow determined so that they are perceived, so much for the shadows, and hold bras approach more, as much as the light, five vivid If the sky were powerful can be seen lus m immenia illa gthereafpatia delatusyibi. it ought to be terminated there, however, since because of the infinite both because of the abundance, and because of the fuperfaction of the air with infinite multiplication, the darkness of the snow thrice he could not be threatened. However, when here If I put color on my legs, then it will become unwelcome to the world noing, I will make the best of natures it is, as among the bright white, yellow, red, and dark, in the middle of a certain color, which the matter is cxruleous, from unequal light, darkness rum miftura fusing, as if in the shade let the gratifying life end, not too much would be divided into bright or dark con- He would be burned, or burned red. Me therefore a long time between the two was blue viz lore to those most delightful parts of the heavens inoffenfb vifu contemplate nature provi- He brought the worst to the world; Further this sky the color of air, the color of water approx rivaled The earth is located in the center of the earth; co- black water, so near the outermost part of the earth orceru. eus made a jute of color, such as is clay, qua- iifqixe almost fefub the ground deeper -digging It is the purer of the two places. For hence the thickest waters of yellow and blue miftura they turn green, when the parts are quick, not by chance, fed by a kind of natural conjunctivitis there Hence the grass also at the beginning give, but it is possible to pass the maturity the earth is reddened by the smoky moisture; in- ftar yellow, into the ground, whence they are fumed, re- verfee Yes, the aqueous humor is mixed with co gulped, bursts into the grass for the most part, then fub ipfis waters, as is evident in Alga, so that fo- a wet light at the end of any other woman for the production of seedlings Astonishing the truth of his matter, I confirm with a miracle that Andreas Li- bavius Toni The likeness of the chemists examined and examined with his own eyes it matters Nature's surprising experiment 'Vegetable in humid deJliUato4 Andreas Libavius narrates instead of the fupra ci tato about a certain wonderful plant, which in distilled water from every woman you have made mifcella puratiffima, as it is verifiable, cre the leaf of the vine is born from the fertility of the moisture. Ve rum when a thing becomes worthy, qu ce a Phiiophophis ex aminet, ipfa Epiphtolas Jeremie Cor- Nerii Archiatri BrandenburgiadLibavium the date in which he will heretofore convey the words of nature a miracle; Take the seedlings in Trifalati water na (which is in Mienia, not far from three fir-trees from the city of Cygnus) I was given a birth pill. You already have, I say, a fed picture, I hope it's alive haluiffes, queeprofe far more delightful it existed, I will love it far more than you see, and
I can barely imagine the pill sketched, don't cam color {it was for the painting Jua co you were illumined natajqui pagince almost by attrition night Never great wonder at the end I saw her at that time I touched the glass as also others. glass by Je absolutely such it is like a picture bet, or even a little of greater capacity. Who is the color of fubviridh it is infused with infuperf (piltorfic had returned the shadow of the glass) he from the glass it is, by no means, from the water, from the welfare of any fun I'm sticking to it. For the purest water is still plain phlegmatic every experus In the plant ipfanon confpzcis Jlipite, bafim, or root, on which it rests, it makes a noticeable, small snow pointed, slightly elevated, G use con- Artis magna Book I. Part III see how to fuse the glass flowers, or stick to the wire batur, &fic to the sides Jpargebat branchesple we are not given leaflets for the whole size, fed oblong ones, too, with a very light green color tender and tender seedlings of rofmann with oblong leaves tender, as in sharp grass, and tender in color from green lemon not green fate. I have no doubt that I could fi'et Jurger e, that cr e fler e, when I sleep. not, however, would the firm blow it to any end with trembling motion. But what is to be destroyed, inexorably cold pelted the bottom of Christmas Sunday with no which, as well as the rest, was at that time chilled by Mufleus the rice did not freeze when heated, so the seedling pofl which was once again refined by the warmth of the air goris by Icefa; a fundo av ulfa; therefore it floats already the water, though with an intact color, makes it dim it appears as a large mass, with a kind of vifeofity around the ipfa let's collect This happened in the year Water difiillata menfe Junio by Martino Gallo Pharma- I took the pills of the coccium. In December, the herb mum obfervatain in November Ha: c Cornerius at Libavium From which it is evident that water, when no matter how indefatigable you have become a woman the portion of the dispute which; water: I want more I would also like to have a baby. able to grow a hairy body, and first the moisture from the potential into the adum to degenerate into a certain green fublancy. See some of the wonderful portentous plants here We live in the underground world. But in order to let us return to the color of the air; some"0- Ccelumigtur casruleumvideturobmul- the interjedition of the tarry brass parts, and the mu- habm- your penetration, with which the opacity of others which they smoke in turns. For this is his own mu The air has the air, as I have been at a long distance also colored, and very vivid, in with a clear light, it covers the fan also, and I have lived with my skin, but they do not see it as useful at all tur, ipfe the shader appears, that is to say cae roller Both of these are opaque bodies proper, but not transparent. Then the parties many airs, although all follow the light illumined, among objects, and between living things fed from a multitude of interjedas fuper- a kind of tinnitus of brass they put on And therefore in a perfect body I was contrary to nature to some opacity making that blue, and that gray they refer to the greater, that is to say, the nearest. brofo All the clear things confirm this: apasJmitS for be any two, or glasses, or criftals, or he superimposes one cat on the other, more obscure both will be done; for the penetration of light nor do they offer duplicates, rather than fimplices, more trebled than doubled, fic in infinite Who is almost everything to the eye He raised the Sienites, who were once rescued from the earth there is no snow or dark earth he carries, the leaves of the fuperficie, and (peculiar; at when you trust him to the tiniest of plates, you will find nothing more transparent. From liu- ExNj Jufmodimalia fpecular stone, whose longi- pumn the breadth of two grains of barley it equaled a dyne, plates sometimes I remember each and every one of them so clear and transparent as no glass or if a child could be procured for him, the air was ex- I was exiled because of my excessive arrogance he was rendered almost unlivable, and did not cast a shadow He was beaten by the sun. which all la- the threat of firnul conjunct. itaexadditionepar
their shadows multiplied, as a group of pe do not turn the darkness into a shadow of darkness the next terminus; so much so that this one with the experiment of cceleflis color, casrulei I said, "I'm drinking. Par for the bodies of the transparent transparent jundtas, the more you have fuperpoufed, so much you will make it darker, so that finally light they deny that he was transfixed, and alive, and of color. That therefore in transparent glasses, also in fluids to be believed efl. Yes, the seas, of course while from the excellent Turkish urinals man I have heard of the ships of Malta, who in the sea of Erythraeum inpf. unions, finding corals in many trans ad they had spent years working; sun rays to a certain depth at the bottom to help where the sea was deeper, in perpetuity leave your darkness at the end of any flicker of light bottom the reason for the matter is not otherwise the floundering of the snow-covered sea. What all or everyday experience merges. Aquafi in a glass with a little light a much freer passage than the greater one it was a vessel that had all kinds of shade in it leads lakes also, and rivers, even the clearest fint, deep black cant, not even a shallow farm. But obji- objeBi cies; Therefore the air will be alive through faith; but none a transparent body made alive by faith. Re- fpondeo, no transparent body in as transparent as it is, let it be perfectly livable: fed in so far as some opacity was added has Thus the air with its infinite beauty put on some dark rum by mixing it tis reason, vifibilis efl nonperfejedper accident tarum But all things are alive through glass by reason of the foliage, which, when they come from the earth they put on some opacity in the neefiario; and which is transparent among the inviolable gods it is raked So according to some steps they obscure the transparent: asther not at all, less more air, water, and still more air, most precious stones; and obscured by this the diversity of colors and species in the light they eat, and stumble, as we have already said. experience De Chtomatifinvs I discovered On the Chromatism of Various Waters. C Oiores, to which water; are dyed, or they are crafty, or sleazy, and not at all transparent, or like transparent glass transparentes If it becomes a color of the first kind, which water; he floats in the shallows; it is clear that he I will turn to the light, the darkness and the darkness to be seen, by reason of the craftiness of the body let him intercept the ray of light, and let him rise up He repels them. What this experiment in- note, be a glass ampoule dyed with water cast a full ray of light. The same thing the color of the glass is made on that side where the light nis radium fufcipits, for its own fpecie and he presents his mother, as indeed he was repulsed the ray of light reflects on the eyes of the protector. But the color infused with water becomes exceedingly perspicuous, from the adversary of the light indeed, for it represents the former image, so much more vividly how much more excellent is the light. ro parte fpcchitus, which the light proci dit, obfcu- the country appears; the more expensive; the clearer it is, the more diluted it is For a luminous ray through water natural rent. mul and the fubftantity of the color will penetrate the direded with no obfuscation, and no part to view then rebuff; See neither the water nor the color bitur: fed atr opacity fpeciem exhibe-1 bit For that which is not seen is humility. It is clear that a kind of darkness was brought before faith therefore, the waters were infected with a perfect color, when from the place where the light falls to be seen You may see something similar in the sea. while the waves of greedy waves beset the plane ae quorum, that is, the setting of the sun: go to the east let us turn to look at the water of the sea, Opa I saw a certain depth in it a mouse; for the brightness of the sun has gone into smoke which obliquely intersects the plane, the shadow it increases in size, and thence into the opposite pair tem, orientem fcilicet, rej ecfa, ntaj orem fpectui allows penetration so that the water appears darker on that side. But on the contrary, we touch the sea from the sun opposite The bright light of the waters so pervades the plain he says, so that no one can be caught in the depths
theme access; and the same from water; lift off liens, it so pierces the line of the eyes, that however much he wants, he still sees nothing perfectly he puffs CHAPTER IV. Cbromtifmus ojfnaclajlicm: SIVE Of the colors in A certain HILOSOPHUS with hidden colors nature more attentively it will erode, not the end of the cause fa in these words prorupif- fe is read: As they have the eyes of lindens to the light of day; itaintelledtus anihue noftrte to those which are the most manifest of all. Nothing more true in my judgment: for how many here which, I read, particularly about the colors of the rainbow which reasons indeed so many adduce pleats of colors yet so in all things let them float, as if something had been taken away, when let them seem to say everything, but say nothing. I when he saw this calamity, ex by experiences as much as human; industria pof- I thought it would be a reliable thing to try; whence nothing is taken away by the power of the striving spirit I tried to find the truths so rare in the glasses I would have found the shining baubles. Where who I seem to have finished that, so that the generals Let me find out the reasons for the colors of the molds Rim Let the matter be settled, even if anyone knows, tell It is not a prudent matter, especially when nor fa; I would not kill him, nor would I have a verifiable account of these things He is willing to bring them in any way, and so for more rich than that of human genius touch those hairs in any way you can in Elias; I laugh at the Metaphyrics who- a round of useless speculations, who when I will manifest the matter to everyone, and to no one la more obviae, nothing in the human world gis comes, light, I say, colors com They do not want to take hold of the most exalted, and from every bodily pollution of contagion the natures, entities, the properties and affections of the pofle piy fu they remain They go astray, they go astray; they would like to be commended, in this ma- They labored to clear up the darkest darkness right to us for some reason, which; exclaiming Philophophore's prayers are in some way fateful let them do it, let them affix it, and we will gladly write to them; G not re- Beautiful experience ta. Reflection fitdiiu, color rejpeculi, ex with which tur, dyed there Artis Magna Book I. (Pdn III. not for those things beyond all genius polished the finish, of which we only fci it is given in reality, and it never happens in the nature of the world they suffocate, they smoke life, and the fruits of life. Sedbifceper tranfenna diflis, us to in- let's come back washed He complains, what is he doing? those colors? how inside the diaphanous glass were they born? the mildness of these things come together For this we have declared, de a bunch of colors in the rainbow, no more fupe- the difficulty arises, when the same thing happens to them, as it did heretofore system True with that end I try They do not want to be caught, but first we get out we will bring forth the experiments, that they may be examined, in let us proceed more safely to the fcrutiny of the caufars. Experiment with different colors flow "O Rimopimparari we took care of the glasses all kinds of colors, white, flannel Go, Red, Gray, Black, and we offered that the same softening of light takes place here of glass, which in mifcel- la. And the threefold in that way tents At first I was stripped, then I was refrad, bending radius So let two glasses be blown wine and red, one red and the other, St you will see those transfixing objects immediately golden to shine with a certain color. The same eve niet, if the ray is reflected, the glass directly trans- receive the smell on the white paper: both of them for the middle of the transparent tiiiget those of the greater miflura, which ipfa glasses compose. if You will combine the yellow and the blue you are examined near the triple ray; get down hers, a medium dyed for them, an object that I painted the whole paper with some kind of green to luxuriate If fine red blue thing if you try, you will find the middle, fuperfi- shining purple Album ve I don't know what the gray means. White with brownish yellow; fuperpofito, will make it intensely red; blue ge leum with a green pavous color will spin Thus, I do not want the end of the greatest spirit
ptate you will see from the combination of glasses I found different colors of colored ones. Where it is worthy of the greatest admiration, ra even the reflection of the glass does not transfeun tem, but to smoke a miflura of color and knocking it back against the wall. then, be someone who gazed more intently at the sun rit then sneered at the objects held brofa, at first all white, soon yellow, then of red, green poflea, finally oerulea, until the living breath has been washed away by its own breath alive in natural proportion from the light of course through colors, degenerating into black will be looked at Secondly, take a triangular glass, feu fused into the shape of a prism, or something and the angular body of glass, through which five living rays, five reflected, or direct, The sun's objets d'affaires: certainly the same quadruple colors ries Again in all the bowls around the con the waters of the borders, and the air, known in the same colors bis. I say first, the colors of the hofce are nothing else faith, how diminished light, foul that, and bring darkness between, and light means That they may be understood; It should be noted The effusion is not complete and perfect poffie, snow with the greatest strength of color in maxi ma thinness, feu rarity. If therefore the light color has been impaired or in impure from thinness, from perfection I was from natural conflict the more safe he retreats, the more fue rit diminished in color, as long as it was half fue rits denfius and rariuf; whence the light diminished, and the feeble reason of a hundred colors, impure, and yielded, by reason the denfioris diaphanis should be said efl. Efl for fu- approved, make this light effective the matter, the living power, more strongly to laugh, which had a greater ray of con- flipping, and finally from union the greater color of the parts; then, however, to act on the eyelashes in the eyes, when the greater ha it will cause the diffusion of the rays, confe once the union is diffused, I color the minor the matter Hence when the darkness between, and the light, ca lore, figs, almost infinite degrees of fint, di- turn down the flames too, as soon as the fire lights are ready I will vary thinness and rarity in myself God meeting White, yellow, red, blue lcce, golden, purple, green, proper indeed the color of light is white ci folet in the sun defecating air, in a camphorian flame: this is a transparent flame miflusfcedatur, to black, and obfucurum is being done If, therefore, the color was intehfus in me on the thinnest of luminous bodies, color it will be the brightest; it fuses with the smallest color in the middle of the feraffiffiff, the color will be shady a mouse, and in the neighboring darkness scarcely livable; which they teach beautifully with a well-defined experiment ta. The remaining intermediate colors are fertile the degree of heat, and of density and tenuitatifque the medium, now the light, now the darkness give Hence the colors that are less opaque they suffer, those who are nearer to the white, those who are more distant, when they suffer more from the opacity of the medium. Since then, in the corner of the glass, the medium becomes different the conflict of the diaphanous, 8c one and the other let him have a conflation of parts, light for him Illapfa, refraclaque, necefalario for the greater by folding the parts, ipfum dyed que neceffe efl, Colors therefore arise from in the diaphanous denfior of the middle, not in any one, fed they use that which lacks natural thinness rofcidae What do you think? those colors in glass ap parents On the Chromatifmls of natural things. rofcidx clouds, and all cryftalline in which the ray of the leaf is bent by the power of refraction: for it restores the foliar rays, and makes it normal passing through the glass, there is no reason to be fouled in we protect But be it through the unequal thinnest of the air be made transparent, the more intimately are they infected with so much darker color? but the less, the more clear. Light is go through the Crypthalline prism passing through less The transparent denfum is puffed, the red is clearer, He languishes with a more meritorious color. It is true that Are they presented with this ocular demonstration? Let the prism RTS VX Y: become SolCe. no. eye D HMK In this double beach of things, it seems, one reflected by a ray who does not change things either in shape or color; Fed presents the inverse, and it happens, when the matter
they normally penetrate the glass. The other by ra refracted for a long time, and here the matter indeed, nor na tural fat, nor presents color, fed now why vessels, now circular, in all kinds of colors adorned but not the various ifta differences of colors reflection, because the reflection of glass normally transversing does not present things differently as they are, fed as houses, buildings, trees on the banks of rivers invert But the ray of the Sun, where obliquely in la Some of the prisms have fallen, and have been refracted twice it returns to the eye, and with this cooling much departs from the priest's vigor; with me for a long time the teeth become uneven. Hence refracted light, and at various depths Diaphanous, weakened by various refractions, fes- and given, it renders more colors now, and less to the white, approaching the black. No but only in the prism three principal co lores, red, yellow, blue; yellow as rain a ridge mediates between the two red, ending in blue; and green, cro ceus, pink from neighboring colors com are placed And so in glass by cooling they arise Let first be the radius G, which in the glass falls on the mass b, and since by the middle denfius must be transferred, from b re it is broken into a; and from a in D: since Ve- ufZivL it would produce the same color as the least of all fcedatum, white that is closest to the light; since, however, SY is a leafy corner of the shadow not a little obfuscation fcat, hence not white, fet yellow, fed red He blushes intensely. Again, since the ray If the sun falls on the glass at O, it will be broken it is in the midst of the deepest OR, where I saw and the glass is very wide, exOinR, from here to K. From there it happens, as if through the middle of the diaphanous If you are deep, you will refract the ray and force of fads, and of the multiplication of falsehoods, a genuine fua degenerate much in purity, in the color of the shadow of the black street or, that is to say, a bright blue border darkness Again, since from the ray in force trum falls, is broken into e, it from e into g, From here he runs into the life of H, that is to say, the middle at the depth of the glass, where it cools and not from the neighbors on both sides the shadows of the corners of the leaves Artis Magna Book I. (Part TX, VR, SY which also has depth; from here I grow ceo was comforted by amiclu, who was able to use the rest rior is thus also clothed in white, feu lu more closely; the remaining two colors, green, and Pavonaceus, they are not the first, fed from fibi con they are born by the borders; indeed green from yellow I laugh; but the peacock, whom I shot Look at the most splendid hill of the Peacocks The wall originates from green and blue miftura it has a furrow, and then the width of the middle guam, middle, greatest, ollenditfupra polished figure by lines from G e. Po. Y X And these are all color differences they vary according to the light, according to experience innotefcet Therefore, the array of colors in the prism thee, as in every other cryftalline body gulofo, there is no other, snow in the first corner of the leaf casting shadows through which the light of the Sun medium in different ways refracted, and variously modified by shadows, and to them various things, with astonishment let's look at the different colors presents both. Corollary I, TD Rimo from here it is clear that the colors of the rainbow are different, and we have spoken of the colors of the glass prism to have no origin. For all the colors from the same order of rays, fed from different in the depth of the clouds it is cola- tur. Where then did the rays first enter the cloud ViuntUr, colornitidilfimus, puniceus, Sc ffmili dyeing the whole cloud, and fuper vapor iicie, with which the rays of the pyramid of illumination ve they deny, it is pervaded. But they are not seen, because the reflection of the ray is diverted to something other than to (e. g giving an eye Where the radius is a little deeper on foot He is weakened, and through the interior no twice the fuperficium with much opacity, Sc shadows The eye is turned back, covered with drops. A third, farther, was again drawn into the deep while the still thinner Sc brown peacock light The sky and the blue emerges through the interior and the lowest curvature of the arch. Where you will see redo ray penetrating the middle of the diaphanous Who will draw the white bow of the most beautiful produt?
wax: the earth is bright, but darkness is the kingdom to produce a blue color in the dark the neighbor because of the depth of the middle, and the weak the state of declining light and rays: verfus but the sky is the border of the light red to produce color from the border of the dark cloud more meanly foul, yet less than the lowest arch. Corollary diaphanous ToucJi-' T T IncIt is evident that wherever the light in they are diaphanous corpora angulofa incident re- It is a fraud, there are all the colors of the rainbow to appear, as much as he stumbles upon Magic noftraCatoptrica, where innumerable of this ge we will repaint the pieces of hair, and the rainbows, whereupon we dismissed the slayer. Hence the water in the ro the object between the eyes, and the Sun, outside plo Iridum with every difference of colors matters, as is well known. Corollary TT Inc is also clear, to hofce colors re- prefentandosfolam folam folarem fuf- make a noise; but other lights do not shine Obfcure to report them; nor the Moon: light to co lorated ineffbrmandumfuficit, as dili- gently remember me obfervafle in Iride lu- irishnms, nari, than to me here in Rome: in Pri on the day of Kal. Odobri at the time of the full moon He happened to see it with surprise; which men imbued with no profuse color of the era, fed inftarfacia, zone white: , half cceli (wonderful life) was ftringebat with my desire I became acquainted with the colors of the clouds, the dawn, producing rainbows, the most powerful light that work should be done, that is to say, to be bred. An experiment. And with a tree a kind of wonderful water in all a kind of dyeing. T T Ocloco never thought to leave a mouse of a kind of white Mexican wood genus, that of the Indigenous Coatl Tlapazatii they call it, that the experience here and there is not He taught the snow to dye the water with a blue color, yet we find by continuous experience, it transforms the water into all kinds of colors the sea which I will rightly call a paradox it will be given They use a large wood bush, Vefmptia it not infrequently grows into the mass of a tree; trun- scrutinizing, enodis, inftarpyri ar boris, the leaves of the chickpea, or the leaves of the rue, not far from the fi- J thousands; flowers small, oblong, yellow, &fpica- tim digefti: it is cold, Sc humid plant, li let it depart a little from the middle temperament. And so the wood of this fallen tree He poured a cup of boiled water into it I first dyed it an intense blue color in the water Bugloffe dyes the matter of flowers, and how much longer in it he was tired, the color became so much more intense ret. This water, therefore, is made of glass: fphaerae in it you will be poured out, and the light will be poured out, so that no one who then a wave of blue color will appear, fed inftar water: pure wells: fountains: , clear and it will give light to those who look upon it. Further turn this glass bowl into more space you straightened the shade, all the humor of the gratin mum will bring back the green; be still more shady buslocisfubrubrum, &ficpro rerumobje- of the future r On the Chfomatifnm of natural things. good condition, amazing color will change But in the dark, the veil is very dark Polished, the color of the blue hair is red. I was the first to note that this a miracle of nature in a glass from that wood elaborated, and from Mexico I am giving a gift to the manager of the company I grant that &poftmodumSacrae Caefa to the real Majeftati as an exotic thing A few notes, I transferred as a gift. More on the subject so many exotic caufas to be searched for, the mind and understanding have failed; when you the color of jufmodi neither among the visible, nor let the truth be counted as a material fire the thing not before, when true and real co lor is made from the nature of the wood, not from the variously affected light cta, as it often happens in apparent cases, prove nothing: not even the real color can be seen beat, when exposed to the light there is no dye in it to be seen, and only to be afraid of different objects when it was exfoliated, it brought out in a different kind of colors; however, the various experiences taught finally caused find the truth of this, as in those who are fertile we will open And this spleen is called Ne- Phnicum, because it is to the kidneys, and to the cattle defects become the most probable medium. And so indeed The barbarians prepare: the wood is strong, and with a nod to the end in the best, limpidilfima
let them soak in the water of the springs, trust in this water they use and dilute the wine with it, and marvel they experience effedt at any end of the humors by commotion, nor by any other ell vice ra tion work, how temperate. Indeed aque fapor no more mutaturligni injection lest, as soon as it is done, nothing should be soaked in it. It is said to be hot and cold in the first degree. Owing to it was really hot, but the wood was not enough He was soaked in water for ten days, by virtue his theme was completely exhausted, and no more dye the water with color. CHAPTER V Metallic chroma, mineral fire The smell is double lives in gems, or transparent or opaque; dark color ell, which lu receives it, does not transfer he sends transparent, who transfers: both or actually even in the absence of light, in the veiling light it is not; fed from the composition of light and shadow It is not produced, as was said in the preceding passages How did he But how the same colored, ItcoioT diaphanumefle pofilt, inveftigatudificile Then it seems to be the same: the fig tree indiaphanovifus, vellux fint it must not be limited: but every color terminates; and he is in the transparent, per the whole of the material is difficult even fenfu is detected; which seems absurd. To say, therefore, to terminate the color for He begins to live in dark bodies continuous, in flower; when truly he is united, And the material parts of it will not be fabricated they have, not to terminate the dia- bread; fed only in part, imperfectly cte, in so far as it is somehow opaque It therefore remains open to the unobtainable co such a lore, fed imperfectly, from some obscurity light is affected and altered by color, and not in his own color, fed by another in an opaque term nature Perfect, washed transparent, it is that which lacks all color and light lorem, as he received, in the same profuse manner he transfmits on these lines. I mean, in straight lines, don't I would exclude an iridescent, a gem, or a crystal hexagon; they transmit it; but keep from the light ction in fuperficies multiplies va rios colors, and which they neither have nor received, or transferred to a neighbor's body to rub, like a veil, from a divergent eye rum fati also render divers. Imperfectly It is transparent because of a twofold difference; or for it is dyed with the color through which the light passes is terminated, or in some part by color I see him dyed coloreln (acceden I refracted thee with light through many fuperficies) go riat, as happens in Opal gem: In this for the color is truly perfect, and the same throughout the refraction of light is altered, changed, etc from a different afpcct, veloculifitu, in the same point fe offers another life. After leaving in transparent colors, to co real straps in the jewels of the pen let us convert Some think from exhalation with them, or with metallic and mineral spirits bus, I was introduced to jewels of various colors that metals and minerals are various in color the genera seem to have fertility, which be brought into action by some mover. Vi- let us make a white smoke of lead, to be made with wine vinegar, blacken the smoke oil; from the same muff, yellow, small blue, green, and red are elicited. Ex vitriol, red, white, green, black, blue and yellow, so that almost nothing happens to me neral, because not innumerable colors infe H jpotefi Art Magna Book I have power, and at last bring forth. Others They are looking for the closest color: vo- Sidtmmo- luntque Salem Ammoniacum, whose maxi- luinnolmacopia in minerals, and metals, and ter- rum genera ra is found to produce those various colors in fs comi- no folum in them, fed in plants, and theirs flowers, and every part of the animal, therefore also in gems and stones, and in foreign matters to produce all the colors. But Salem They call it the ammonia of nature. Some salt fspiritual life-giving, which is fublimate with wine He first attacked that one. Think that from them he was the first to move in any matter conversation, and no less burning, and adorning it with all kinds of colors. Caufaillius thought that, in all things
things are to be found, and from them the propeller is full. Then of which all was gathered and plucked He brings forth the genus of colors by fe? , by the fact that ig lest it be made of nature, that which is incorruptible, my and the exhalation was washed into the air with great heat the snow is inflated, which is suitable for any dyeing he dyes the glass with various colors. Itajo feplius Quercetanus at AnfelmumBoe of that Some colors from the elements various mifliones, and their concoction for they are thought to be leaders. Most of them are of the first quality they drift into matter. Let's go back to you riis hifce opinions, to one certain one aflringamus We do not deny that the first colors are derived from to have an origin in the first qualities j pofle just as in this body There are various profits at hand, all of which are in Micro-j The cofmica republics have fua functions; they are they are white, they are black, they are yellow, they are red bei thus on earth nature shines in various conflicts he protects the meanders of the earth as they pass, they dye the ground they fall upon; the caufa di- here then coagulated with a perifical dye, bands wficoiorit diverfi color for miflurs variety procl- U cit: such facas luntMarmora, Alabaftra, Ja- fpides, which originate from the flour of the earth they have a gyna fua as Uris varis, varia- which, and "irregular, harder, now white, now the blacks, as in Alabaflris; now white, ni gri, as in Jaffida; now green with a brown flag they demonstrate with the voice of fate: of which we ex I went forth into the underground world we got together Prsterea are a kind of women in the few things that nature has provided for the conflict those from which the tongues were a natural color by which they were slain by any other, attri- cat cohtcs is drunk. For as you force a woman's la- to you the fint ten is given to each one of the fuam form, indl guram conve natural operations nothing: so in the woman of every one that the force of the matter is also chromatic, there is a secret in which each one is suitable be adorned with color: for no nature has this in produce a variety of colors in things, there is nothing in the nature of the world where the worshiper of the heavens should be afraid of life; the difference of individuation. For the matter which the force from the colored ej us fuperficia, that most of the flows we dignified And the best elueefeit jjl holds. gems stones Hence stones and gems ms, which has a particular and proper shape, such as glofopetra, afleria, coral, Judea stone cus, fiElurophthalmus, five eye cat, fe- minary, and the principle of color in nature, from which they are formed, they generally have Who but they have no definite shape usually from exhalation as an oar tiore, fire from the metallic spirit, Salt Animo- niaco as a closer caufa tingun there; but all the colors or from the light by rain, or by heat and cold, or in fine from perfpicuity and opacity was the origin draw, as a little before dirium efl. where this should be noted, all intermediate colors everything is transparent, white and black Incapable of transflation; hence no scm: let the jewels be treacherous, white or black: no white, because of the fuferficies, from which mate- ria, cui inhxret, fuses, multitude impe he says, from which he wishes to terminate his life: fic- as a cryflallus, when ground into powder, it whitens, which it had previously been transfused by the united parts; so the snow the white flame washed into the waters of the primordial sea is reflected in transparency, and only fem- by transparency in white bodies he says, as far as whiteness goes, on the contrary; so as to be transparent with no proper color fused together, crushed by others, how white, as the neighbor of light by nature rite What is the object of the fip, Ruby? The sapphire, the emerald, the pale, transparent gem men, and yet do not burn the ground? Refpon- God, only with these white-crusted gems and to yield, as much as to them inefl transparency Hence it happens that the gems turn into dust reduce it no longer to color it whole the thing they sigh, fed fubalbefcentem, cradle That little portion of color is the benefit of the light through the transparency it becomes much more brilliant than suffocated in different parts of the pollen. But the black gems are not poflimt dia- of the cloth, when the black is the most lively of the term
net, as being proper to opaque bodies the addition is made. But all the mediums are transparent fe poflimt, unde cujufvis coloris eapa- Zl you will Cryflallus is also a fuppofito color in fact, when it is fed from the opposite side, the whole nether world it seems For the color through cryflalli denfita- tem frariis radii transfmiflus in ipfa tanti- fper to stick, and to play floating in fashion it seems that whatever is desired results. Then the plains of Cryflalli, I will ask the color is diametrically opposed to the color of the rays I was a hollow fire, brought up by the thief from within part of him fufeipit, eofdemquead the lowest cry He gives up the fanfare, who while from here rur- Iron ttjflaUi. ''Mbit colo various rums tas in ar gento viv-o Of Qlromdtifmu things mturaliunt Astonishingly they return to the eyes, through the first rays mixed with a more profitable color of cryftalli den by the position which they offer in the surrounding air: by which it is done, that another may cryft the univerf dyed with force be given An experiment Fallacies in tmUarngemmarum. Ryftalli fragments of native gems for my mother is hidden, and her silver bra The goddess was magnificently smoothed, and in her own color I was not afraid to start with my pocketbook It is possible to make it very slow, so that it does not fall at random; so Cryptalli seems to be a natural gem. Where did you go? ro closer to the imitation of real gems let them approach, two cryftallis friulula ex they hide the figure, like the fimuljunct of a single gem report the form But it is necessary to make fuperfices Those to whom they are committed, eat them flat effe: these are further joined between fe and exprefla from the purest tears, with which it is broken, perfidious that rniftus appropriated color. Maftyche for melting by fire or cold refeining like iron the parts of cryftal forces it into one body; and color from ad- verfo fpedatusper cryftalli denfitatem, for and he would transfer the foundation, if far by force the dye will imbue it with a blue color for various reasons tepercuffiones, than fi fola fuppofita becomes in fata silver brad Others also have a glass I should dye the teftella in a similar color that cryftalli, utfelenitis, fragment infe runt, pure maftyche perlita. .The truth about trusting gems in the subterranean world, in Magia noftra horographica cap. y. more see Experiments 'On the wonderful Minerals ab Verified by the author. TPRiplex Ghromatifmus here explained to us it is sweet. The first is done through the tindura to his mafiseper spewings, imbibings. The second is done by degrees of fire, and by cold. Thirdly, by ablutions, washings, and washings. First, be quicksilver plumed with steam. If frozen, I like to eat it with a spoon you will be warmed by kindled coals, see soon it will appear to you in a liquefied form a variety of colors, such as no greater in the world He desires to be conceived, so of the lucid, as to no one else Compare with them the rums which they call apparent ri poflint: from which experience after being taken away from me, he quick silver of all metals be men, all of whom have the power of faith and by virtue it contains colors, and heat into the abyss locked Second, you want to make a list of things, not how. only calcined talc, ftannoqueafleque- S alotm rice, aUt silver by colliquation, co= dion; but also the throwing of the meat? rice, which is made from the white lime of Mercury's base nourished with oil of Tartar. Another way to whiten this you will infuse it; dust from lime Tarta-. ri. Alumina, and Arphenic white lime lye, dilutis reficcatifque'in res liquefadum con you will throw it, and you will have a qucefit. Sometimes lu- a fimuse fada of sterling silver with Ammoniacal Salt by mistake; in this the thing, whether it should be heated or refinished, with silver and more is given If anyone wants to work hard, 0vH, n Ph- to repeat the fublimation of the identiden, fubli- the mats were then bathed in royal water, and to digest; he will have a great deal in nature then, viz. , the egg, whose calf the game is red in the middle, and the water is blowing around it it is with albumen, which is dyed with it, as the vitel red game Thirdly, the black lead into the white plume with this skill you will convert. From the artifice of white stone Tartary, Gem Salt, and Ammonia c0' dust, which is soaked in vinegar during the day you will steep the rum in the fpatio, and the steeped ad
cook the fig, whose pollen is melted while the lead progeny will give a great in by forging silver vaffidurius. Fourth, Borax Aurificum white, CX- The roll will be returned, the fi will be ground, and the urine will be fubadus ruUwfiaL It is dyed with glaft: or it becomes purple, fiinten- He was to be praised. A similar art of crying dye phthalinum with the least harmful colors. Sales, too, of every kind of promifeu. Vi- triaries also use it for dyeing glass lens But they are dyed with the juice of grapes grains, Amaranth fanguinei, Balauiiio- fuedtin- rum Polygon's tail; for women Heliotro- &entes- of the pii tficocci, when I first got cold I was greener renders, ifnox blue, St purple char very suitable for dyeing. The leaves also of Cy peri, feuAlcannce, whose paint the Arabs the manes of the horses, the tails, and the feathers of the Ostrich whether they like to dye in red and yellow. Also American ladybirds, Coccus Ba- the fig tree, Chermes dyes the noftras purple Alder leaves, Red, Ifatis, feu glaftum t arie dye, of which in the underground world The second way through tion, which in the previous ones from silver vi- dm vo, you arouse an infinite variety of colors the mouse, just as Bifmutho and others that, five Indian lead they would like to arouse p fediftimoS in an indescribable variety, and hence not the end of Clilmici's reason for her Tail Pa? They said that Irides and Irides Fire therefore safe from Ocher it becomes red in new pots, spun from clay circumlitis' exufta, and the same candefadf'nleZuIdt and vinegar to give it a purple color n bit Cerufla, however, is made of lead and vinegar H again eo zArtk great Book I. Tars Ut again the exufta becomes Minium: xs with sulphur when cremated it degenerates into cinnabar. Breath with vitriol he dips the iron in the ass; Salt Ammo niacum lead into the ftannum. Be the colors of the throats, when they are fed with one species, another face cooking, use types of heels and rdr; a expi- quirunt For heat is the matter of colors it infects; for the colors of that one will be dark will be able to pay Fictiles are made of brass porphyrite kevigat admifcueris water, in- made of a red color of copper appear inftar: ad When the fire of the furnace is thrown out, they become green: a color which is made from iron, Melinus. Zaffara dyes raw earthenware with a black fire percofta in blue praflantiffimum mu he is confused CaTalpinus says that the stone that when it is dyed blue, add a pinch of salt there, black; from the gray tend to the pur pure, fine, crumbly, who through fe folus is not founded, fed with the addition of soda flows only water Of whom, however, when ex the experience of fumpferin; don't let her which I would like to affirm. The third method by washing, cooking while nes; this clothing: metallic, which I have diluted, folviqueaquispofiimt, utfales&alumina, they are cleansed from the fords by splashing them with water pure, by filtering and coagulating, as these the work is repeated for so long and so many times, and every let the color be pure and full of splendor; tumfoffiles, as well as excoclitii, and each by art they are drawn out of the ashes, they are white shining from the snowy splendor: some even transparent, as fal nitrum, alum. liturgy rium is not only attenuated by ablutions, but it is also rendered snow. Innumerable At this point I would like to hand over the experiments, ve rum with her in the underground world we would have boiled, thinking that the fume was futile here to repeat the same. Of whom, indeed, om It is clear to them that they are different from each other not the composition of the colors of the cup, reason neither, nor pofle to adflring to one cauf Qu. however, all from the precepts a little before depend on traditional
CHAPTER VI Chromat [mm Botamcw. SIVE Of the colors in the herbaceous elucidations] N herbs, flowers, fruit strokes of impressive colors play nature in variety re, of the Tulips, of the Lilies, Different types of anemones the threat of fate and the reality they blow For Iri while the flowers are so beautiful in color, that the tulips from black now turn yellow befcant, now from white to blue-purple rafcant, just from the bottom diverficolor in om lest the race of colors be luxuriant; do it for me to grant me the leaves of the first qualities
as in the previous ones, matic virtue in fpermatic faculty con the tentacles; which is done from the power which it contains weave each plant, and the color of flowers and the shape of leaves, flowers, and fruits nbw v un- jitat jta from chromatic clay plants, about? with flowers, fruits, and first fibs qualities, and the matter of clays with ammonia a bus with so many colors suitable, fiveadornatum, fivead in of a worse character, as the virtues of the It gives color to those who know it. Which only in such a variety of colors It is necessary to explain the fact that nature behaves. tx soon and out of the earth emerge, the green give, then grind, and finally the flowers for another and in another way, like fruits, be imbued with color. It is refreshing, with all the colors in the grass the variety comes from the concocting, which ni This is something else than perfection by natural heat really emanating; it will be like moist earth the matter of plants, and their trunks with they were born, they were nourished. But there is the sun as the father and the cook, so the reason becomes the daughter plants with green flaming waters and with concrete: they were therefore made in water the colors are produced by the addition of the sun, and so the same the natives of the color are created in the moist color things in plants And how much more humour to be made, both yellow and green they approach more. From here in Autumn pleraf- let us look at the yellow trees. But why radii? the root usually becomes white, it is a caufa, etc three times grafted and not touched by the foliar rays it can't be finished, whence it remains in the primeval fuo breath; but and, excited by the heat, the man came out of the earth, moisture from the Sun, and the efficiency of the ambient air He begins to swallow, and is finished by nature li wet to tend to falsehood; not feces and about On the Chromatisms of Natural Things and of the springing water, to which the plant has moisture We have said that rum is everywhere. Oh therefore the humor of the Sun is green He strengthens nature: when, indeed, the stem is prostrate He had been suffocated by an abundance of humor it seems to induce a fearful nature; hu usually in leaves ermhpente; but not with the leaves more mature, nature exfpcrma- tica vi grafted the flowers first with the rest of the paint painted, next to the female plants of each in a way. In fact, concentrated in the center of flowers colors mu-ilumij0 0ps adione matter gradually in blowing I am enjoying the pleasures of natural repulsion He left, to whom Salamoniacus was inviably removed admitted, it gives color to the feminine reason proportional So radical humor piant, eftmaterialiscaufacoloruminpo- tenta fe having a d all kinds of colors, of which any plant is capable of efl: Efficiens is the sun, by means of the heat of the ambient air teconco god ripening; which, the colors of Un from power to hell they lead All these things are elucidated in Ceraphos cunt: for at first it produces flowers from the green the white inside the chapel be beautiful with yellow, in the midst of which the former humor is still in buried in a green ball, hence in the forest brum, then into pink, and finally into snow eat a bunch of fruit while it is edible due to some reconciliation and maturation as nature requires, it degenerates, until it becomes fugitive he commits treachery, and in men whose caufa for dudus efl; , necefitatem ce gives From which it is clear why the seeds are green the flowers are now white, like most Apples, Pears, Ccrafis; now with a fleshy color As in the tonsils, they are obtained; now green, as you finish; now I crossed, as Watermelons; ruddy, like an apple; sometimes punished, as Prunis; to many vTsnigrizr gri nt as Death; because the degree of concordance green snow, and the colors of ripening appear near the natural temperature of plants, d manure nal reasons, as often incul it is a cat. It is also clear why they are rarely given black and green flowers; for the first time in vege- the leaves obtain a tative stage: fecund flowers: when, indeed, the first degree is produced by force ror is competent; it belongs to the flowers can't, snow is very rare, and art introduced dus, as it will be seen with desire;
poflunt, because the color black dione, and ripening, which denotes the last degree of betrayal, who cannot let flowers fall. But you say to have many spots on the flowers, Papa spring Let me tell you, don't wash the dirty spots figun maturation, fed fpermaticfaeul- a kind of flower ornament intended by nature, as in Fabis, Pasonia, all things, the ftriata of flowers difcriminafatdocent.
Experiments With this skill and reason you were given flowers that they may be introduced, Ultumiifane Preologists hallucinate, Flores ma those who use metallic brushes to color the flowers they think that they were introduced to the pofle. As for the metal you will eat most of the fucci, fint, and gnaw endowed with a certain faculty, so far as flowers are anything that protrudes, as rather a pen let them destroy them, as they are heterogeneous I will let nature melt them: from whence the Gate wanders, who paint the roots of plants with cinnabar the cat luxuriates in intensely crimson flowers he thinks as many as Ochre, San daraca, flowers covered with gold pigment turn yellow to a yellowish color they really believe They are mistaken who first pickled the bulbs for a few days, the hair is twisted, then dyed with any mineral, red color fe to bring out the pofle fperant Varis these fu-nt man whether the perfuations of the inexperienced: he desires homogeneous nature, all hctcrogenes, feu impatient nature Whoever therefore new flower monftra to lead the defi- it is homogenous, that is for grasses, that is for grasses, and not with any grass, fed with flowers I give nature a kind of filial piety it is impossible to presftare. It should also be known, co all the land that nature flees by the bridge There is no need for the same art, no matter how it is black color They are therefore greatly mistaken, colonel nU who painted the roots of the plants of Loliginus the black-haired cat mourning the flowers they want to do: it gives you what nature denies to you. Every one to whom nature must offer a gift the mind makes nature work miracles; fe- Whoever has done this, will wash the Ethiopian sooner than I was forced to force the nature of the law. No, I say I am plus, long experience no makeup, even tried on plants properly, connaturally to dye flowers fe, and because all the dyeing is from the moist ipfo proceeds from the root piant: both because the heat from by no means the natural color in the pinch a pinch in the fpermatic mafla hidden end I was able to make a change, fed finally, the tributary nature of the proper radical he will be forced to dig, and finish all the stranger who came to the color of the victory the force of chro fatages to translrnute into my nature the mother, not the dung, and the wine that is drunk ruddy, kidney, and heifer in color members of the natural dye: Otherwise no red-haired places, they are all in bloom things would break out red, painted in chalk he must break the whites into whites, and the whites rent, which, however, is contrary to experience he brought them on. Therefore no one trusts Port, H Alexii. , 6t The Great Book of Art Alexius, Wecker's infatuation, none of the methods quibufdam and tinfturif of the flowers which Fer rarius nofter recited in fua Culture of flowers Thus doth the smith Lynceus Philophophus; whom see Lynceus in this manifeftahoc matter I would trust Nature, then, has a different way for us. with which we can dye flowers, he taught, and it is done art empbyteutica, five infititia. experience qiUrunco- tiadocet, Perficum Moro infitumfrucfus lores others t to bring forth, and delay alm- lore redness; of which there is no doubt as a common food. Almond too. Infused with pyre, the colors of pyre flowers, while to bloom, to smoke, is familiarly known. Hac therefore the female art of various plants they polish the committee, as a kind of common to use the natures, so that the color of the reciprocity is obtained let them deny So red Paftinaceae five Rapo He- the bulb of the white flower of the breast, no more white, fed with fanguine will shine co- lore: but the same plant of the root of the anchovy inferred from white in Anchufa's color degenerate into pink I: Part IIK it will shine in color. If, however, the plants You would trust the color, so Rofa white infka
it will produce a red rose of both colors rice share So CharyophyUon flowers entwined with various bulbs, it is a miftura of color they will give, whose flowers they were. Some also Betonica Rofas, Grfelfiminum in flowers bring down the golden beauty made the invasion of Geneva. And this is it that is the true nature of dyeing flowers conformed to him, than any other man intent on the miraculous transformation of flowers I have no doubt that he will accomplish anything. It is true that many more He had trusted to do this, let Mun come while the magnetic noftrum, where about hujuf methods of phytomagnetism mouse But to admire the secret natures which in the plants, and in the flowers of the ipfis figure matter some kind of magical rum They wish to be led up to this point by an unheard-of artifice; when it does not take place in this market; Mun do futterraneo we returned CHAPTER VII. That's it On colors in tAnimdibml R1PLEX of animals type in this chapter let's trust Quadruple while, Volatilium, Infe ctorum, the omiflis Aquati with the lips, as the color is ele of the mind in which they dwell, a the nature of wealth. In the meantime, the largest co A wide variety of belts are offered to Vo latilia, so also the differences in the colors cau- the truth is obtained. My four-legged kind know the variety of colors, The horse admits the former to the mind of the coyotes. Colors The most common horses are white, black, and red. fus, from whose miftioneflavus, caftan, they rise gray; whose wings you diverge they have coffee cups. Some of the natural com I have a definite color with my hair and temperament claim the matter. Some places fit Oceli's favor of the afpeci declining the color they acquire another, as in the fuppolar plagues Black sparrows and crows are white. They are not missing which from the imagination in the conception of the fetus they acquire the forms of these colors. Great tm Equi part of the Chromatic in the female latent faculty TJrrirides have the origin of tatc-ia: : coloring. Why? cZrukit, however, none of the quadrupeds has a green color. let us see the haulgurum and the golden infinitude, it must first be explained in this place, before find out about the colors of animals then let us proceed. We have said in the preceding bus, the original vegetable color of nature let the thing be green, as if it were a source of water the next humor, the first concoction of the sun ction, clothed in this color; and bread of this degree of nature they are most competent theme It is true when animals are four-footed three times they are united by a certain nature, and the original that wet night with a lot of terrible soot phytopletum; from here it is done, as from watery nature withdrawing from a certain earthly temper and then but the temperament different colors are produced, white, black, red, yellow, from his neighbors, who are properly colored with fearful and dark bodies, as in mine neral Chromatifmo is alive, conve they deny It then becomes white when dried out moderateiicco: black but the rest of the colors are partly wet, partly by taking some fruitful steps they arise In Man the most colo r pi- from the origin of the ropes, from which then fucceffu time in color control it degenerates to suit. Therefore he cannot pious you Of Chromntlfmis the nature of things is different. The four colors are green, golden, and gray to admit the ruler, as if the colors were natural incompatible with temperament, with pnedibti the colors of the watery nature' work fint j finished of their own vegetables. With truth The air becomes closer to the water than the earth, because You? the flying and the flying origin must be from the waters: Volucres but the three oimi have their origin partly from water, partly ntuZpf-" they draw tim from the air; hence of all colors, the end of which herbs and plants are also capable like birds Infected, however, as from the third IZgnerl ra, air, and water promifeua a certain nature they receive, they are happy with all the concoctions, don't they? certain indeed intended by nature, fed for di- by the fpofition of decay, of which the bottom was as rain they are born or of imagination, which in va the colors are transformed; or finally natural metamorphosis, than the diversity of co the strap is made of neceffario. Animals then a quadruped, which is ground wet before a cetacean
earths abound, green in color they are capable, both for the said reason, and also because of the tenacious mucous excrement and also, whence the skin is nourished; excrement indeed, those which nourish the skin are or slime, neither of which is excrement they are green, or herbaceous, purple, purple crime fed hofce the colors afTumunt fibi those which Why are they born from bile, which cannot feed them? Why pedta perfe- pfgrca Quadrupedia, as j Z: r Volucria, those bright, golden, blue, pur- Imbue them with pure and finer things; the reason for this I don't like this one. For with a hairy soul we become thin, and neither one adheres to the other reat, the light of the sun He will not be able to reflect three times; but not in his pens it happens when they so adhere to the hair that they become one make it continuous, and therefore break it I give shining rays, such colors to bear better polish Caufa therefore the first co
loris in animals, in so far as the tempera- caufa of the skin hangs on the chin, moist from the heat a j, mmtistii. rie affection; which, however, is now stained from white, black and white or white and red most of them let them be made, let this change happen the work is based on the imagination of animals in coiturefttitans, as we shall say; That again from the birds, in a strange way I will give the colors in order, and the difpofition of the ful geant, i. e. Chromatic: of femininity in a woman we will attend to the hidden work, and to the decoration as well the annihilator, then alive to the pleasure of man finally intended. These are the Peacocks nes, halcyons, hoopoe, and other names rae; where: in the New World they became acquainted with the volu cress, in whose pens the Architeblis painter the will, and they will be destroyed in a clear way it is given For when one Peacock's feather nis, which we call fpeculum, so much ar tification, and such a great variety of colors She is dressed in the most elegant order; surely of this work, no other reason to strengthen the architectural mind we were able to For qualities act in mate in a blind way, and no figure ob- fervant: In Pavonum fpeculis figure in co it is covered with straps, and the border, in each case Such and such a color should be effusive, not fecal matter which nature is wont to do, while man manufactures; for the figure in all things vat, and the limit of plasticity b ene- I do, and whatever must be advanced, my mother conflicted De Clmmatifmo Chamaeleontis In he landed here in Rome from Pa Some of the family were religious The French gods, who, among other things, are rare, with whom which carried a living chameleon, which the curious natures of the explorers provided This occafion the natural affections of the natural animals I led Cliones to investigate. Various things about him They also found many animals falsely attached But what about the colors in it tation, let me briefly flourish here I decided to share. Figure of an animal hgc it is to live. If we consider the head first, a in the middle of the back of the head, oflea part triquetro protrudes, the remaining part is collected in the back hollow and some tunnels Caufd colo rum lAvtis Book I. ffars III. which you take from the edges of the fig tree, and carry it lightly raft The eyes were very large in the socket and They are of the same color to the body, whose pu the ball does not move, fed the animal of the whole eye he moves around, gaping at the mouth. Lin It has a long guava, and I am afraid of earthworms fimilcm, at the extremity of which is a fpongiofus some, and glutinofusnodus exiflit, which gnats, gnats, and gnats, on which he lives, as if a kind of viphco draws the unfathomable to faith. The experiment of which matter I ipfe fumfu; for the extended palmar tongue ap- immediately at the end of any movement of the lips He fumes the belly; so that therefore it is a wonder in mo while those who love this animal with air or dew to be overcome by crying, hallucinating: to this for nature gave him a belly and a tongue he was deprived of the ability to eat then? The front feet were very riorius the first, the third toes in, two out; thirds of the thumb they had two inside. Animal control you are cold, just as from laziness which
it was collected by movement. Therefore, the figure Pta is already reframing, to what colors fe turns, let's see Most Authors in all, in addition to white, red fe turn tra give But experience has taught me otherwise. For this Chamaeleon is clothed in green cloth his hair was so pale that it could scarcely have been made of cloth; llrophiolo, indeed, wrapped in the white it glowed, as not even from the iplo llrophis he could have been dignified; nay, some even while the animal was transformed into a white cloth they would scarcely dignify the mother, they are thundering: so Directly ajfimilat touches what it colors. Of the matter of which the caufes of various things are affected they know Solinus says that the colors must be returned skin inltar, skin corneal reverberation. Others into timidity, and animal food, which they think that it is air, and they cast it down let's open what we vent. You should know first of all, this animal is the most frigid, so the most timid, the slowest, too to proceed, so that there is no reason for danger He wants to escape from those who are unfaithful to him ca natune dote, which in the color of the thing, cuiinfi- gives, so transmutes faith, that by no means dif- and it eludes the eyes of the unsuspecting. Nature, therefore, provided him with a skin I covered the mode of fumma with curiosity, which somewhat expanded with moisture luflri, suitable for lighting colors. Therefore, while the green leaf is imposed, the animal phantafia with the object of the fibi gratilfim like three pruding, expanding fe makes the skin fit imbibing colors; these expanded within the moisture of the skin of the fpccies of the skin it receives in no other way, and light is received in la pide noftro Phengite, fire Phofphorus, light niepofito When the moisture of the skin becomes one in forms, and continuous, it becomes like the whole body fubjectifibi leaf greenness in fe derived in He returns to look at the eyes. This same con to dye it, put it on a white cloth, or put it on paper nature E fi: therefore the effective principle co straps, as it were, in the chameleon's skin cross over into the other stream with bad humor; the prince But the pious, as it were, is a fanciful soul the matter, that the object of the hair is colored by the body of the skin by dilating the lem, it renders it suitable for imbibing the color I give: for Chamaeleon died without any color He is moved by the fact that the manifest fignum Efl a certain internal principle, by which by voluntary movement into the object color transforms; not excrement as in man's shame my face blushed with emotion, but I trembled with fear We see that the polyps are in a similar manner for the color of the bundle, to which it is attached, found out And this efl: indeed mine about Chamaeleon tis Chromatifmo venting; be who I really am taught me more, without reluctance I promise to kill. Experience Animal Of this Chromatif fuse in Art no- lyre adum efl. So here he is briefly I decided to repeat it. It should be noted, then, that the maxi I see the variety of colors in animals It must have had a hundred origins from the imagination tion, or of the meeting animals, or of volition a flock of ewes incubating; as it was then they have imagined a color, the same and the opposite then they will drift. He teaches this Chromatic Genef magic iffafacra Scriptura Where Jacob from the variegated, spotted and virgin He brought out the object of the meeting of the hearts variegated By this art the dogs and their horses colorisproducftcetus, whose veils were mina, within which they have joined together lamely. Wherefore be spotted Tigris with a white and red spot they will breed white and red animals there Thus the birds exclude the chicks of his color, of which were the curtains, within which the lame sheep were kept lie down Such a fantastic opportunity there are forces. Hence Corvi, Urfi in the parts of Ar- fo fujected, because of perpetual snow ctum, imaginatricefaculty in the snow mu only the color Hence the domestic birds I eat a variety of all kinds of colors they are transformed. Of which briefly infi- nuatis, the reason for which the Magus Luc-umbri is clear Miraculous Chromatism of light in animals 8e the shadow wishes to carry out the favor. But about rifce, as I said, he who wills more, confutes The Magnetic World of Hujufinodifufius handling C Which (It principle ejfeBivum color in chamidsottj you men Qbrimcrkicd CHAPTER VIII.
Ars Cbromocritica, five on the judgment of colors, and dhination. UM of natural things colors of internal light or shade, heat or cold go riSjhumidi or ficci, lu- culentiffimapr? beant in say but hot cold, wet ficcum, the first of all mixed fint ele mints; certainly exhume the phyfiologist external colors; where something that the tincture is imbued with, from each sorry, so many probative judgments to lead, to doubt no one I'm afraid Since then in the proceeding the colors of things, the colors that you buy, origins for talent we will see; reflects this Chromotopho- Apply the art of light and shade mouse, earundemq; speculating on someone let us turn the human spirit. Where, however, fruitful universal only reasons for let us yield, for I know, innumerable scaufasad to meet the complexities of men; no dung and the endless miftura of colors of the conflict they polish, as man has so many different inclinations confettiend? fint, how many divers? face vul the tussle of men; and he wishes to be certain in this business, which we do not intend here either, fed There are only so many colors in the human system in order to smoke We are looking for you. i. Chromocritical times. "FoT to any truer figures; how divergent you are. a cloud of dyes in the sky, tempefta- tutn changes were detected; not Nautis so much, and the Agriculturist, the truth, and no one else having some account of the time com it is perverted; with it most of the light with the clouds miftse the color of the darkness they weep: but the clouds produce rain showers, most of it from sunrise, and I slept with the sun and On the moon, let the fixed tumfyders hang, their concealment and manifestation Chro nica, Cofmica, Heliaca in particular vandsfunt The signs of attack; most proper pri mo aSolis, Lun? variously afledaluce futuun there he is tempered: for him the Moon becomes a knot like another Sun, and the same from the crown because of the light nis lack of menfis beginnings the matifmum of Monday s-iyimw colder fint; of thence the heat prevailed in the heat of the light it is intended, especially on the moon's at they are to be tended; year, day, menfes, confideranda- Annum pa The Pleiades were raised, swelled, then fell asleep: Tieiadu Fluency, too, and equinoxity. Such as e-0rtm nor the Pleiades occafu, or the Sqlftii, and he was blown with a pound of air, the same retains most of the air at Solftitium, or asquinodium in either direction; be the future change if Solftitium is made. That there is nothing a change takes place, the air in the fuo and to the equinox the night fta: u will continue, and atq; thence equally to the rising of the Pleiades, in the same way a good experience taught, parallel to which I will give a photograph of the Moon and the Sun in this inferno He does more, and weeps and weeps? Monday the menfern rays lead from the interlunar beginning let them bifurcate, so that usually the fourth, fin mi during that time it does not become mute then, it will certainly be a full moon. Also from the full moon adfeptima menfisdecrefcentis, a feptima to the fourth; thence to Neomenia and Alente He must return to the moon. The same change This is the way I do most of my work on a natural day has, indeed, rising in the morning, noon, occafus, like divergent degrees of light, all then with the knots on the sides as if they were parallel brae steps refponding match hold on Tempested changes ability. Ve all this in the preceding given to the eonfuls. Let's get down to the details. So let it be The first rule QUotiefcunq; the sky rose before the sun within the blackest accumulations of clouds it turns purple, it certainly means that even on the same day future rains, or a change of season. If veppenjerenitatem next to that vulgar: A red sky in the morning indicates that the rains are coming The late red sky indicates a wild effle. But it is deserved to be wondered at at this point, why the same appearance of red in the morning, and the rains vefpertino Sun diverfos time effedus veJberifeYS: In the morning he gives purple clouds to Relpoiideus. to bear the rain, because it is raised no thorny vapor, and clouds with moisture
when next to the rain difpofitionerrt let them have it, the sun went out with a violent heat Diflblutium will soon trickle into the waters; gases ro vefpertines not diffused by the daytime Sun, the cold will coagulate and condense: where does it come from? Preffi, ter by the weight of gravity ra: from which they are reftitied with a breath of air purged from every breath I read it. Moreover, be the rising sun in black instead give way to the veil, teq; and rains and winds tends: for the blackening color of the cloud va pore confdpation, finally ap- the hottest winds mark the material; Winds, fi nu- biura Artis Magna Book I. (Part two folds from the field into a broad one; the rain let the same force of the Sun be cast into the watery parts, diffusion Who can kill the pink, 8c rofea? let the light of the Sun shine upon the horizon, or fupra emerging from the same, commonly from retant, ridentif- What is the indication? Rainbows of lanterns the flames, the rains, the rains that most of them are We have this idea we grant that the breeze around the lamp what a craffle, St wet the light of the lamp no let him receive the inftar of the thin and base trU ciratque refledlat. When the light is uniform diffuses the rays in a distorted manner fphaeram, it becomes like the air next to the light of the cross what, who then from the yellow fubobfcuro in finally the shade of a bright blue sky, drawing, I know that Iris rudiment imagine Whatever happened to this, you will certainly be divined to blow the flrinus showers. Hence the straw of the veils and crowns common judgment they promise rains. So the colors of lu-1 a mile to the shady dykes of the neighbor rains, to red winds, to white aureus, and rofeum accedentesrifum cceli they promise the most. The pale moon rains, the red flat, the white fe- reborn But heretofore you omit them, as they are commonly known, to other Chromocritices we know the mysteries let's compare. II. Chromocritical Stones, Plants, animals, . I. On the opinion of certain people about colors in plants. T Ubric business we are dealing with in this place, and I do not doubt that there is one near you I will only make things up to those who are afraid reckless I am not ignorant of one and the same plan let the colors be different. For some in with a white root a green thyrfum, in this the flowers They encounter the same co-wa-tf eSfuvs. And the color is white black, red, yellow, blue, different colors demftmper kent caufas of fuaru miflions, to use diftum born? it is Hence in the two plants the nature diverfif- but we find the same color when we use them. they have t So Pardalianches, a genus of Aconite, a flower Prophus produces gold, the same Son we see him produce, but that Tumen deadly, this one especially cunning Experience has taught those who eat: whence besides the colors something else, as if hidden the color of the plant; character perfectly Let's do it, it's required. That is to be noted, first whence the color of the plants, and from which con weeps, it must be found. They are therefore on the plane your colors are various, white, yellow, red, gold, pink, blue, and to black spring nation ater From whose miftion we are innumerable others arise, as if intermediate. Of the white ini of this, it becomes a nuisance. Ariftoteles al- He said that the bed came from infirmity; 5c therefore it is reflected in the eyes of children: children for she was recently born; they are imbeciles; I wish the dew is changed into fus colors, infused by nature. To whom we will so much more willingly support how much greater are the arguments of truth cry out we see For I see almost all the ani mantes, five lames of infirmity, ftve blind they will be born from the vice of nature, let them be white. Suf Theophratus is dismayed at this opinion. Inferior everything is smaller, more fragile and whiter how black, both in animals and plants Cm eyes of children white You go. For when there is too much moisture for let them come, not so firm a fubftancy ha bent: they are imbeciles therefore the branches, leaves, and fruits of the evil punicum therefore they are white, and the decoction of the decoction of the trunk lest they be changed into pink, halurgum co internet The leaf parts of the root are faster, when
there abounds in moisture from the fuggeftion of food they are white; on the other hand, the extreme fo liorum, when there is less humor, more con cooking is done, they are mostly more colorful. It is therefore made albedo m plants from admiftion tibedo ia make the complexion moist and cool; But in a man, whiteness is equal to terror tium with the air mifcella color marks the tempe riem It should also be noted that quan therefore, when the whiteness is perfect in the water; wet, he marks a little earth in the same as far as the termination of the wet per- fpicuifufficiat: where indeed you diverge, pius three times shave Hence the Cucurbita, Alfine, Nymphaea, Polygonum, the white flowers of the pyrites, Rophae they are white, cold, and moist in temperament. Animals are also made white, Anfer, Swan Ostrich camel. white rabbit and daughters, which grow moist and cold they are full of mind. Black, on the other hand, pours fire on black the color of the plants declining, it comes from terreftri, fumofo, adufto, obfcura plant soot, to whom Abenfina is called, who says a blackening vapor from the adducted fluids to wake up Ariftoteles quoq; : Heat acting when it is wet, it becomes black in color; one everything that burns becomes black; which however, we are still fuming in the previous mouse: for we say that the black is indeed adfuta to note, but private cahdftate, humidity you: ca- Jrs Chromocritica. you: for the heat makes the humidity fume: which therefore they remain; they are sticky Yes, Hyacinthus cold in color approaching black, and it is fake. Cyanus flower, Viola fublulea, everything is cold to use, and stiff, so among other things coldness astringency are counted a Red heat Medicis. Red color in plants Aben- mUntK-rois says that he notes the heat because of the fire in him iiucefcente We say this'colorehi to blow from the clear water, and the earth much fub- linden, incense, fumolafupernate, any and he turned the earth red. I said much earth, because the color is red; among it is put on a branch, because of the earth; to which he fuses parts: Hence all the colors of the ftiptic river limit, as experience teaches in red wine: the fruits, too, whose last ripeness gro imbued with color, ripening reddened, and they are bitter, the last truth concoVtioncmquefecuti nigrefeunt, as in Cerafis, Moris, Punicus, Oils, Grapes, Myrthys and Baccifus are to be seen. Rofre Leu- coix, Chariopnilli flowers neglected, or in reddened with dryness, they turn black Red thistle, Lyeli nis, Neritim, Aipalathus, five Santalum ru Brum, Popaver Rhaeas, moist and warm they are temperamental. Lemon, f: u crocus color in the plants, as it is a medium between the white and red, so also among the deep colors medium temperature is obtained; dbfervan I give the nature of the place where they enjoy; fig tree for you, the yellow flower of Ranunculus, rejoicing in the waters in the first degree it is hot, so the flower of Hypericon he is hot in the third degree, enjoying the mountains 8c yellow Ranunculus; for they have flowers there were degrees of intensity in the colors, and re- miflion, whom he will have to offer, cUiPliy- It is the mind to do the tomanta: for it is done co bright white fringes, and yellow to the shadows, they have red, blue and dark brown, so also the temperament of plants, qu6d the colors indicate the temperament: When for all temperament is made of heat give, cold, moist, &ficco; but these litates originally from different miftura of light let them come: they certainly easily come under the notice of plants with this parallel comparison will come who om nia knows how to combine properly. I will sit down and die After three months, let us establish certain rules, which with the benefit of rum in different plants ture will help us more easily. 'U IIR Rule: Chromocritics La- piduirij Plants, Ani evil First of all, we have no than the hidden, five-species plant rum virtues, faiths, which from the first let them emanate from wretchedness, speak in vain: fb Indeed, the powers of things are hidden by no reason they depend on their natural temperament; I made the flowers they have origins, as if suitable for Iflignare it is he who hates those hidden natural things
and of love, harmony, and femininity He penetrated the heart of the riaphagus. At least he went I would notice more intimately the strength of jufniodi plants, on both sides compared to the rarer capacity plan I planted these in the garden of my house; as ex the coittbination of colors, colors, flourishes, of the fruit, of the leaves, into the true knowledge of which I would become litigious; whence nothing was said dunlduxi, of which I do not know the experience It should be noted that it is fruitful; triple virtue in plants confideraripofTe: or manif eftam flanl, s emanating from the spring qualities; or fpe cificatii, let the fire be hidden, and let the fury of the matter flow forth tem l or nledia repulsing from both sides; which again and the beast, yel Poisonous, or medicine which confettiut Aexiteria of litatis: dequibusfia- the rules of the suit are formed. The first rule Therefore, whatever the grass lore; which, however, will be different let them meet; tunemanifetumlaten- tis of any hidden virtue with pri having trade in my qualities, that is you may betray the information to yourself. Fertile Q Mnes ahee herbs, which flowers, or fuc- co, one of the four humors, vi-, cJbili cotl- they lead to sputum, yellow bile, phlegm, and they refer to the black bile, to the same humor or gn, dt by increasing, or driving out utplunmimx coii- to bear The third rule. The colors of edible plants rose, and those who wear yellow and golden makeup, bi lem immediately ufu fumptas tuiic stages- te l with the origin of the first qualities they have a furrow. Of this genus are Atriplex, HerbxchL fat, and a pale thing: Melopepones, my, cro- nMU cus, rapped yellow Indicted walnuts, om nes plants, which in addition to the color of the sweet fa- they are filled with strange yellow bile, they increase their mood. Some people don't even know ducata produce Jaundice, as the frog blows va reports Philes, quece intenfius' fe afpieien- the tes are suffused with a jaundiced color. The same about Stel they report to the lion and the cross You are a udtor. Herbee ye- r6 croceae or flower, or paint, which inter. I t eat them. The great art of Libia edible and destructive, the middle poisonous by fire they are strong in nature, and partake of both tes, strongly attract bile, attract of this genus are the Aloes, Centauris, Tithymalii, Colocynthidis, five The bronze color of the bronze crest; cafe futa, Myrabalanus, Empetron, Caffia fla va, they fubduce the drawn yellow bile. Before Do foreigners really admire Chelidon's prowess? it is an herb, the root of which is imbibed in white wine the color of the rose is diluted, which I am infallible to drink to the Icfteric fans a long time ago, it was discovered by me. reubar bari, too, with a crocier makeup, as far as should be able to cleanse the bile, no one should it is disgusting. But those crocs, how well-cultivated the choleric, the yellow bile of the fire, they are jaundiced, yellow fever, yellow fever vv loreconfpicuous, who with a certain childishness natures to draw icteric humor, it is said to free those afflicted with that disease. Erythro- the dam, which we call Rubia, is golden burning with light, Chrysanthemum, Anthe- mis, Chamaspythis, all Geniftx, Ab- the Fynthii, and the genera of the Ophirids, either painted, or Yellow flowers, jaundice, biliousness Botanists, in the manner of the ancients, In three stones Jaundice Gem, hidden, because of jaundice the stones on this side make them fall. Among the animals Chara- piohgogi drium, and most fowls of a yellow color It is the author's porta to presftare the same. In this judgment of the plants, however, great of the places and times from which they come you will have reason; fiquidemBetonica, ver two graces, one in the mountains, the other in the valley Libus, aliamhyeme, aliamasftate character He carries the pras fe. For all the herbs in the mountains? more polished of light, so complete the ftccier xion, to use in valleys and watery places they will contract the middle one, and the confectioners bile, these will move the mucus more; which I have made a brief statement, so as not to make any mistake see the difficult business of afleruifle oar Fourth Rule What are the three colors they are praying for? glow with a dark color herbe- 'patras weak bilis students this ipfo gloomy they will show off their clothing. Why from a child
with a certain amount of black bile, fire they will increase the melancholic mood; some, however, will even cancel the increase. Therefore, whatever plants are dark in color you will be either yellow, fawn, or spotted they show their cruel clothing; Make sure you do them what is contrary to the nature of mana delete- to bear the burden By the order of Pythagoras, who things of a black color were said to belong to death, Macrobius bringing Veranius to death book of the Pontifical Words, the black tree He pronounced the unhappy things, the happy white ones; I: Part hence the protection of the gods of the underworld teben, of whom see us at length in the Oedi dealing with two hieroglyphics. Oni- romances everywhere, as it is with Artemidorus through the black holes of the black bile and all that is infauftafignificant. Atri vero ci- nyofdamt dark in color, five wings to the black slopes VKnwUi herbs, are Hyofciamus, whose wife de devoured not men only, fed all the animals go mad with vertigo: Smilax, Mandragora, Apii, Solani, Pa There are several kinds of grass, partly dark, partly light teis, cinereifque, autmaculofis pallore in- grass blowing with terfufo flowers: , fomnia dark and terrible, indeed, the growth of black bile to, fcotomy, vertigo, epiiepia not They arouse the flock, fed even from lethargy they make people. Napellus how is given, if the flower of a dead man is cra- TIT c, t' by expressing mum, he demonstrates fate. A bean carries also a herb of a pale nature Pythagoras Fal, not by reason of keeping the disciples away He wanted, because I am often mistaken for smokers the matter, and the stupor of the mind with the impressive to bring about confusion, but by blowing steam with breath, and with the effects of fatigue, you were thus even He overthrew it, as if he were a futudiofus inca to restore peace to the mental affairs with the worthy tate to be fulfilled; and that I hid something from the na tura ipfi impreffo charaderilmo fatis de shows: figs soaked in water I was demon- ftret: and the water in which it was soaked TinClus with a kind of black soot, what is on the ground a vital matter is to be contrived, as if the fate of claret: whence among the Egyptians and Flaminians Dials the Romans in such abomination rat that I should not tell them to eat, not to eat indeed, among the blooming ones, to rest, they thought it safe to sleep. Hereafter black: tell the students everything that they animate the black lias light up, whose flesh is fre- ventl in the following, he put on a melancholic mood really, to induce quartans, to cause cancers most of the Medici fantasize. hancob cau- black buffalo skin and hair, both sides Alpe&u formidable in food is prohibited: Cats also of a black color, when it is poisoned dam ddethifera quality brain pathways ob- fever, epilepsy, and other symptoms then they are the caufa of the letifers: Pili ejufdem they make phthifim. This is the same because of the caufa ano&ua: , black swallows, and no others they cry out to the birds of prey, Columella heretofore explains the verses. Hence Amythaonius taught Chiron the most important things The nocturnal cruciferous birds are amusing, and high The culmination of the old feral songs weep. Among these, however, a certain nature for- they are, as it were, from a kind of childishness on the whole fubftantiapromanante dark bile fluids no The art of Qhromomticd. Iion only moved, fed the motions to fe atra hant, drawn by the given gate, of this genus are Veratrum, Elleborus, Mandrake; I will say nothing here about meat of grains: Lupina, Bubalina, Pavonina, s; ducks, and other animals, with The best fakes are condemned by the doctors. And from heretofore a few fates, if I am not mistaken, are black the character of color in natural things ret, and what it means, he conflates. But he will object forfan in this place someone Pepper, Bezoar, Bai- hunger, Juniper Baccar, and other innumerable things there are also black aromas; which: however tan- tica nigm then goes away, as it meets, so that it is rather aromatic fduuna, cor fp; rjtLxfqUe vital as much as possible animals a r x i -ti i. black no-borent. Kelpondeo, of those things black. from a very different temperament for they fuse with a kind of fire, &fola-
with laughter, and a warm temperament, to any one whose finger is as black as a certain one there is an index. I give a certain Phcterhclpecifica you, with which the heart of life is filled with figs and all spices they strengthen the source, they are given by nature. She verily, what I have said is feral, eating plants and animals malaise, when from cold, damp, or cold with a bad temper, craffhque, sooty nofo fucco they merge, the malignant pasterae in the smell of the same pain is heavy, when If they smell something virulent, it manifests; certainly in the present, and not of the kindred of the eyes only, fed flavored by every judgement while the effexiflime But this time fc briefly having indicated, let us hasten to the rest. (Rule Five. phle- Mnes ilice plants with white flowers, or fuc- Imagine with crafliore prasditas, which were your birthdays in uliginophic places they usually have: clay, and in a certain proportion, as to phlegm, they have phlegm, mucus, which they report, they increase. Of course, you're doing it at a high level tempers improve the same, pur glove But the plant of Ladeas, such as Titymallus, Polygala, Sonchus, Beitalzar BEgyptica The plant, the milk in the nurses multiply; fic about the rest (Rule Six. 'Rtlbre "R Ubri vero of the color of some piante fan- pUntz guinen they increase, from childishness na- tures come together easily, like the red turnip, Vi- janguiaem. anoint Is it red? He is believed to be gone. Somewhat of the same force they cleanse and purify the tiata, as Rote A centaur less, and his daughters. Here I will also give to hemorrhoids, and these aftcclibus profit from their childishness rice: so Popaver Rlteas, Balauflia, Rote fic- cas, Mala Punica, Rhus, Pasonia, Amaram Frankincense, coral, from the herb fanguineafo bole: from the minerals Minium, Cinnabar dust: from animal mud goat ma the cyme with which to whistling whatever, as well as for the confoliation of wounds I am not the force that charaderif mo, they obtain Rule Seven The colors of Mlfliplantarum, when of diver- ififli color fo confluent temperament, different pUmvvm the effects are also erased; indeed, the color of the It is based on different levels of coordination. I therefore say that the two-colored fire plants to blow with two forces: thus white flowers, and roses they cleanse the phlegm and bile, as Anthe- from Galen. Parthenium, Elderberry, bulus, exdElio In the same way, the roots of Leuco- melons from black and white slime, and me They have been found to cleanse the liver. This ra different colors cause different things in hu the humors of the body with my hand: thus Tripoli, Pa- naca, Triphera, they benefit from going fluids. The serpent also tnApant many and various serpents diftindummaculis, totnocendifpeciesha- muithoU- to drink, as many different colors, Arnald af- he strikes: and by proverbs, Salamanders morph into so many I need to have doctors, how many spots there Opal also has so many virtues, as many colors, it is commonly said. . IV. C chromocritical around xions, Sc various men mo things to be done Unc to men's manners of color well- we proceed by perverting the fiction: do not the tall Goth is difficult and the forfan is fearless rium For with the utmost humaneness complete Zion becomes a variety, as it were; from the infinite by concatenation of caufars, for the most part rises; surely he would be considered a madman, who I do not deny anything apodidice fe aflerturumin that he would promise so much. As for hardly ul a man who is with the other in all things prodigious as to face, head, voice, and the camp should meet the features of the body; so he also mistrusts the natural inclination one from the other: who, however, are all in something predominant humor from four only they fuse with humors; and especially in co lore shines forth; something about the indications of colors probably a fertile universe We will defer some reasons. That while we do, first what color, It is complex in man, and whence it originates how some of the men, others of the mu lyre Finally, what kind of fint uniufcujuf which are peculiar to the region. So the color of the ni- hil something else in the human body eff: , than inport the trembling of the translucent body adu exilente in i0re I heart Artis mdgna Book I Tarsus III. with a determined body; colors it is said, in quareperitur visible, and seen when from an external light he received what was given; each enemy from or from Diaphanus fused, for it is made of four elements fuses, of which there are three diaphanous: with therefore in the fuperfleie it flows from the external light to the transparent, which is there, it is called such color, fuperficies hujufmodi coldrata ap is driven When then the colors fint ends tes composed of the body, and the body becomes. vario just composed, from which also come various things there are even more But tell us about the colors We deal with men who are of the four humours bus fuses in various colors, ne- cefle efl for their miflura vados also in find out the colors of the human skin ri. Therefore, what is the meaning of the four humors? flow from the beginning forming in the mother's womb Dla, even such a pale color of a man let's burn He who was born in a fertile man the colors are found in the ram fimplicit, three There are two extremes, white and black, here properly iEthiopians, Zonx scorched; the other is cold they meet the peoples of the intermediate zone, and so many of the white and red, of which Again, it has a certain width; to al bum pale, yellow, to the black fufus, lurid; stunted indeed blue, and red, and purple. In the regions in which men are naturally white, or rofei, whiter as most efl female vi ro: where the black, brighter than the black woman, than men: for naturally they have more humour which is often found in a man; why man woman lia also stronger, to act prom better Under different climates, therefore, di- Different people are produced. Sub ficoioYPsho- scorched to use the greatest ommuiti of things menes efl variety, so &infign is also, cumob they do constantly leaning on him. effectiveness and because of the natural conflict of the earth, of mountains, of seas, and of plains tarum of animals, and of men Most of whom even so little heaven tra- they distrust the manners and inclinations of the with a turn, that I may scatter them plainly through the whole heaven You think you are born in a climate. And the temperance of figs then their various efl; so hiltoria them prx they deliver to foreign nations the wicked. Oh yet they have no color, Q jufmodi fltthiopibus, or him closely and giving way to the brown-haired man, from the black man flavefcens, cujufmodl Abyflinis, rgy- Ptiis, Indis, &NovxHifpanix, Granatx, Peruvian peoples. But whose behavior from the color it is very difficult to guess, when coe light, virtue three, and natural conflict, the behavior of the parents, and the way they lived most important in the character of barbarians, nations indaganda confiderancla fint About them Igitixr You are in great need of everything, while we hardly have anything reflect, to the inmost people Zonetcmpenity protect us from those who seek refuge of all a mouse; the potifliihum of those who from gradula- tftantif- of strength to are extended step by step. Under Jma' This is a world zone because of the exceptional theme they also pour out a brush of air on the bodies tem, all empires had the beginning of it we have found: fub this oliincs then of the Empire And dominated by magnificent splendor also whether, then, the knowledge of various things the discovery of things admirable, and of the whole mouse Europe therefore diverged very much. they are in the shape of men, their bodies are different: some have a white color, and red tall, brown hair, or red hair fleshy bodies, &rbbufla, aniniosfero they suffer from fever, cold, and fatigue you Others are mostly of the same color rich, fedcapillo fufvolvo, limbs rnobiii- a bus a restless mind is seen here, alas quarrelsome, hot-tempered, irascible, to be played Some others with more ad they are of the temperament of black bile buff color, black hair, medium body, strong-willed, bold, brave, in good fortune difficult to tolerate, m ad- verfamile They are not dead, those blacks ca let them have hair, let the face be bold: use the face different in color, so also different in manners are indicated. Undeutverymumfufum that
principium phyfiognomieum, no ra- vhyfegn tion to be admitted efl: To all that man, mn According to the qualities of the body, which PWKIP! m, in the bodies of such and such regions the snow generally exfoliates; they also pour in manners, habits, and inclinations of the soul characteristic of those regions. For hence complain, to all Italians near Climate the same, the Germans, the French, the Hifpa- I was the same for each one according to the climate. St from the foreigner a different complexion, which experience teaches us to be false. For they are to be found in the fables of this region but the men were wise, prudent, foolish, and so on lovers of idleness: they are found in every but to them I became a vice, I became a lust, a heretic, a pervert, the difficult, depraved character of the former. For Italy took the names of futility, Founders of all those Orders, San- clumBenediflum, Franeifcum. Protu- every natm lit St Hifpania Sandlum Dominicum, St Ignatius; France, too, has fuos, the Ber- vires Nardum, William: Norbert, Bruf the ninth is Germany; Affrica Auguflinus; Antonius of Egypt; Finally, Greece of all the Fathers, and MagiflrumBafdium, from which, as it were, some of the Orders semi- %Ays ChYomocriticd.
In no time at all, people fan- the others came forth with haste. Italy has in- Theologians, he has Hippatiia: let him throw And in France were the Hilaries, the Irenaeus; he triumphs And Germany was Albert's spring of genius tice, that frosty Scotland was fubtiliffimo Scotus; Cyprian Africa Athanasius Egypt you were, in short, Greece to the Gregorys. The same you have conceived talents for each nation; of force and those of each nation proper. I stand a child therefore, and a child in the opinion of all He would be the one who would argue like this: a German he is therefore drunk: he is Italian, therefore he is lustful: Gallus, then, is light, vain, and precipitous Mi: Hifpanus, therefore, cruel. In come to Germany the vices of the Italians, Hi- of the Spaniards and the Gauls; In France, Italy Hifpania, of the Germans. In all lin the vices of all, and the virtues of the promipheus. That some nations, however, to this, or they seem more inclined to that vice, that not so much to nature, as to the abhorrence of the country it must be given, what confusation nefeio what let him obtain a natural in the fuos. They put on Germa neither the vices of the Italians, nor the Italians of the Germans, to the three Gauls and Germans, be these in Germany, those in Italy, and these in Gaul, or Hifpania is a vicious race of people they are made of silk ribbons. But in order to inftitu- then let us return to each other; So the various colors in the human body In fact, they are very faint, very remote all from light and darkness First, and princes the palisade is of different temperatures, potiffi- the walls are white and black, for example pitch and melancho for the colors of the lias are preserved because of each other the relationship of the first qualities, fire heart pores, since in this attitude between fe and moisture, the ratio of colors is preferred; for these are the qualities that I introduce you to through papa- fione, this is, from reciprocal affection, which between faith they made the first qualities; so much so that color can be called nothing else than quality mixed body from the first mutual relation quality rum with a light transparent body emerging But experience teaches us this; for the thin cloth is moistened, the color mu touch let the purple cloth be diluted with water, loses track of time; the same will be made, or returned tur, or acquires another color. That in to men and to other living things also it is clear; so that it is more and less fruitful they dye, or moisten, various colors differences are fufeipiant. We said from habit dine, which they have between faith from the light of the fire which is in things, two as a source of heat, or light; fruitful which is the heat of the prince the pious, and the fountain, maketh odors and scents; at fe since it is fit to produce light from faith Zorue give character men, he buys colors. Go to this place lu is greatly promoting the affection men, and the heat of the sun, a fertile divers climate that For where there is intense heat, the rays are colorfub The solar panels strike the ground normally, tomda zs' as fub Zona scorched,
The thing about men is black, hair crippos, bodies made lean, than hu the conftitution of morals there are the affections of the mind, as will be seen in a little while. But those who have the heat of the sun, and less radiation they participate, as oblique incidences three times striking the ram, their humors, less than from which they are scorched by the sun: hence from fig and wet, hot, and cold fluids after having improved the complexion of the bodies they don't even bother; whence aflavedine, iufcedi- zonttnt nor femper so much to white, rofeumquc? frau the more they approach, the more they are from the torrid zone rint more remote s complex, but me a better character, and a better mind lesfequitur: such are those who tempe the Zone Europeans inhabit the rat, and a large part You will die. Who, however, obliquely emits the rays of the Sun they begin, as in the cold zone of this fubjeel. people condemned to perpetual frost, contrary to failure they are strengthened by the scorching heat: Zona: fubj effis nature; indeed, they are swelling with humor of mine, also the strength of my wits, which in the heat of mo He is stuck in a rut, he is so blunt that he can scarcely ra the compotes of the whence I color also a perpetually pale, leaden thing fqualent, for great things, and great things to be done foolish, as for whom the soul, as he said, it appears that the data is missing. Sola is universal the rice inflow is calculated as an annual inflow law In the same way, for the sun is a light I was in the earth abundance or scarcity, in the heart I will stick to the pores of different peoples, or He crushed his wet complexion; so Sol every year the same movement takes place in certain places with the eyes, while the heat was higher, the radiation that he thins the humor by putting on fiction; whence also the variation of color is to be fubire co it is hy em from true lack of heat bodies they are filled with moisture: whence the color is greener, approaching the album more. Therefore, the body fertile because of greater or lesser heat and the light is suffered, and the humor is produced by the fig, and burned, more moist, sticky, It turns out to be hot and cold it contributes to scornful inclinations: for one region differs from the other in the difference of attitude, as well. as the Sun and the stars obtain with the earth, di- is made one of which is Catholic, of which we said, the other particular from nature and was born of the place: for she was born in the same parallel He dyes some places to dwell in plains say open; others the fumma of the mountains cacu thin, shaggy, frail, destitute of humor; others but Artis Book I. Part but to inhabit lakes, swamps, and trees fortified, and protected from winds whence and these use different colors, thus also different colors Temperament and funpvarig inclinations. That all things are better known than to be spoken of be blessed Since then, different places have different climates let them give birth, when the various airs in the air escape, feu material part for the generation of fpiri- yours, it happens that he penetrates into the heart of each the temperature remits, concentrates, and varies. Because also different places produce different fruits they produce, they have various waters, with which they drink they love to use chickens: It is clear that it is certain to vary and alter that food and drink with air fint to affect our body. So it is clear diversity of trends. So the sun came out the active principle of colors; puffy humors; formally, the warming light of the Sun for they will receive it with fear of diversity of difpofition tis, affecting the humors in various ways; from which Temper with different affections the men of the peoples, and the various colors of the na- it is done From here different people get different income differences in color are made. Hence the other ha bet inclinations that temper bi- the snow has been found with the fubdominio fangui- to them; otherwise, those who are pitiutofu with fubdominio melancholy; this one is low to match, that one Zrmos and Imperandum fuberbus exiftit. The other I will bring about the diversity of behavior among peoples able to education, comfort, inftitu- rioni: for so much did he come from the tender ones and it is, as the temperament of the temperament what inclinations to correct, to correct, mu tare, to draw in opposition tudo, St education; with much strength There is a strong bitterness in man: for man
the best for the perfect temperament comes, which when it is in equilibrium, easily in turned the opposite sides; And from this it is clear why but also from the man's temperament I was a man in the hand of a leader eat the appetite, and eat the fruit of the operations master, to do and not to do which from temperament, or from affection, or from other caufa ipfi are fupped. The third part f0Cietatem, ficut hxc to education re it must be carried. For it is certain that we are such what kind of people are they familiar with let us burn jEtcui ceffitudo intervenes. The fourth reason is the stroke; for different states are bound by different affections experience teaches us: age is born of ignorance, which are tanned, so as to be next to the vulgar di- Finally, everything should go into character. Stu we call the day a kind of life, exercise, and the operation which every one performs fua ele ction, five cafu, five fuorum fufee- perishes Military, Doctrine, Medicine, or Theology. Hence the type of military life dtantes, they put on military manners, religion embracing them, in continuous meditation, and by soaking the meat in such a way as to temper it They would like to change most of them, as well as almost everyone else you will say Hence certain regions are certain in general he occupies others with hatred and disgust to attract daughters to be treated. Here some the people attached themselves to the empires, worthy of ambition as well as dominating the appetite for the most part they are held: by what and where the nations were tempted, do not fail to reach it rent With a word, only the ufus can, con- courage, and control of mind, as nothing together a nation prefers what the other, if effectively, wants it does not swell, nor does any defect occur to one na tion, which to the same other nations, ufu& He is not able to draw with disgust. A certain prxpqfter poffed, having been thus inveBivtin the minds of some of the Scriptures, as at the end of the by law, or by reason only in it even in which their own affection and love particular urges, never praise fate let them be carried; but of the others from the unsupported something, in the first instance, and in the next judgment everything other than what is worthy of praise Cliones fpectate, let them burst out at random. The worst The type of writers, and I am hateful to all of them. who, next to the prudent, and the estrangement to be more exact, they would like to be licked. fed here yt. But let us return to the uninvited the wall, and the art of learning to the first principles let's refoll So we say the whole body mixed, fivediaphanumfit, five adiapha- whether, this is, exuding and participating, from which to blow up the elements. Elements, success while fe bodies are fimplician; fimlicium bodies, one transparent, the other fire three times threatening transparency. This Earth is called those Water, Air, Fire: two of these four principia affiva, two actives: earth ficca it is, why it is terminated; water h wet, then three menacing, fruitful faith here are two little things. Why fruitful They dominate in matters of mass, in the more perfect but earth, in the more imperfect water: moreover, the two active elements are Air and Fire, of which the heat is here the larger, the latter less, both bright; fed more transparent air, brighter fire than Traqueelementum fecund power in the anus they are dominated by evils; therefore, a list of fiction therefore the earth is white or fawn; to this man when the water boils, a black color arises, as in lumps it is evident when it is wet, and it is oftenfum while We have discussed the color of the elements: every for the black material is water, fic- to use the cold is efficient. If a little air let him approach, and so much heat as to prove these two things let the elements be mixed, it will become greener; fix then in vegetables the first moisture con cooking produces a greener, which becomes more airy the fire is connected, a red color is produced, by which niam tArs Chromocritica. First, in this the light is greater than in the green; become A great deal of fire has come in the fire, purple the culprit had to make a bigger fire and make it worse that which he fuses from wet and wet light, as we see in the wood, which burns. Then the blue color follows, there is a black man, who is the foboles of the earth they exuded much heat: therefore these are
ces colors, which from the elementary miftion qualities and elements are obtained: From here they seem to affect wet wet material, fruitful that in the elements they are found sticky and moist; hot, and cold fertile that which was driven they exiflunt, they give form: let them form colors, or conflict with them let the gifts come, not to the extent of the futficca, or moist, fed to the extent that they are transparent, or not transparent; so active, not fertile that which is warm, fed fertile that give light or they do not shine brightly. What li quifpiarn not he would call the air shining, and the earth not al bam, it must be done, elements and principles fe is not actually such; for fi actually would be such, already in the perfect form, and not in the beginning, and prin they would be fed, fed principles, com- greedy: therefore there are such things in the effie begun, and potentiality, but not actually, Scin efte com I am filled with treachery. Furthermore, the humors, from which the animal is perfedtum conflicted, though let them rest upon the four elements of the world, these yet all to the red, and color they approach the crimson, when the fertile na tura difpofiti fint; for this is perfected We have said that the color of the animals of the fluids that exist in the vessels for you are green, of plants: for from almost everything a plant which is brought forth from the earth when it is green it has green leaves and lively branches, and although some: plant: milky, yellow, ru let them shoot the first burst of makeup, revenge the mouse, however, femmer the humor in the green all Ani shines. With every likeness of the perfect animal, BuJelcoi- born of intercourse, not folo viviparous, fed tH born tiiam oviparous, fi would breathe, and the lungs have fuccofan, brought out natural crimson fuccus guuieo p0 gj. aej approaching the red chest, who ta he is a fimplex hon. For the diluted purple it teaches slime, for example and glowing yellow bile, charged to punish the color approaching the sea, and the fufier effects it expresses our natural melancholy. One or the other potter It is widely affected by heat or cold; black paleness, bruises, paleness, they produce a bed, and several others the colors which you see among the Doctors. hu But the hand and the body are made into a universe more than two, the most fruitful na ture colors are not found, namely al in a certain way others are able to be held, who in they would appear on the face and skin of a man. But to particular Chromocritices noftr pre- let's get ready Hegila I fD'e sJtri, feti ftibfufci color in the face the offspring of man. Therefore those who are very black, what kind of people are they? The Ethiopians are timid, weak, pre- nd I fell upon their heads, and poured out their blood, because when ab by the external heat the interior is much evoked, in they freeze their bodies exhausted by their natural pain, They heat the firewood by chance; external dew with the evoked moisture to the skin, and then adfu they turn black: from this it is done, that they become black; Therefore, to those whose exteriors are black, call them there is moisture with heat to the outer parts riore, and there to burn from the external environment tur: therefore to whomsoever this happenth, to him im they freeze worse; but to whom they cool to death ra, fear happens to him. So you will face him she is black, five brown, with small eyes and hair crippi, black that malicious, sly, and whom one cannot trust at all you are in love; also the largest and the most powerful of anger, and as long as it simmers in secret, a place and waiting for the time to be hurt: because when Let such men fear all things safe, let all things be fufpedfca, for fear of the black men there is mistrust, out of mistrust I am bound to do this monstrous thing ra, such as they are, which Leo Africa will he carry off the Blacks, who Numidia They inhabit Libya and Guinea. True this color does not agree at all with the Europeans, too little to be put off about him we see If, indeed, the nature of this conftitu- sion in Europe, that is to say, or of the mother's imagination, or of the father's women, or the mother's womb, which is warmer with the breast it is done, it evokes the natural to the outer parts the moisture and warmth of the embryo, and in the place which is around the skin, moisture it inflames, and dyes the fic of the fetus
let it be done; whence I longed for cold interiors she was prone to fervent fear laughs Rule II fD from white fub favi, fet gray color in human face fire white color next to the preceding women's proper fic, women's ear especially timid feints, on account of the fact that there is little ca heart, much around the womb of the fanguine ha let them rejoice; nature also makes all white people K. fear The Great Book of Art afraid of crying, because of the great return of the phlegm Cttndor in dantiam, where slime with moist, fri- iaflc, the fear of it is finished for all things are damp and fearful of the cold they are, as it were, in the fevers, and especially in the infected it appears But I would like to object to this pollet: English, French, white Germans, they are white; therefore of a timid nature. But hafce The nations have the audacity of no other, and the magnanimous to yield meekly, the heroic battles of fate they shine: but boldness, fortitude, ma The wisdom of the nafci will not be able, the nafi from much with the warmth of the heart, with which they abound, with which they are white naturally we say to the needy: falfa therefore efl rule I understand that many things are done in black do not efl; fear, fertile that excefius efl; of blackness, fed efl; son-in-law the natural desire which makes a man hungry to float: thus much whiteness efl; a son-in-law the right of the extreme; but all the extremes, let it be done whereas such things are defective; why those who do not he wants to protect the man's mind, not the white, like the dung nay, nor should he cry like an Ethiopian. Since therefore we speak of whiteness, not snow We speak of tenfa whiteness, the Zone of each kind; cold inhabitants are soaked. Germans au guU; The Gauls, the English, for the most part, do not mtnirofei rem folum, fed rofeo a certain color, or what color is yellow? mellino with purple mixed pro-! ortendant, who color and it becomes an argument among the timid which should not be enumerated. Whatever color therefore appears, it is gray, when this effect becomes melancholic liae with slime fubdominio, melancho lia is not done when it is hot, but it can be done in the middle in the heat; you will not call him strong fed human indeed, and temperate, not which others desire: who truly it is mellinus, it refers to the color of honey, too he has yellow bile in his fe; who wears a cyborg He procured the matter, and went further to the house he says, the lion is swift, and the eagle is profe carries, when he is made by many melancholy in- heating, and much yellow bile with phlegm; parts of the mud People of different colors Melaeho-imputi} are mostly strong, and large too much, because they fuse black and yellow bile the second of which is related to the earth I will give, and strength, feufolidity, the other with ip-nifitfimil, intensity, speed that, and readiness in actions it's miniftrat Rule III Of the ruddy color, the fox-like fire in man, Its jignification in the hair and face of the human body. There is a double blush, the other is lacking in brightness St to black with pallor leric I. Part III inclining a little, almost like in a sharp red we discovered; and the other was filled with crimson, autropheus, especially the eyes but the exhilarating Rubicundus was furious fplendent is twofold, one incarnate, the other was red, which he fed on Cinnabar a mouse: but here with man it is not natural it happens: it is about the first of us. So here a reddish-yellowish color, when from many black bile mixed with yellow he cries, it becomes, as these two fluids, fall into the heat they are hardened to nothing noble, nothing great a man worthy of his heart and feet, fed in part because of the quality of ter- he will stir him up with his fists; where to stick indeed, it will make it difficult for him to adhere to others, whence tutmfyaTttt; what he eats, he keeps for a long time, He does not easily receive what he says. But bile ca reporting fire, restless agitation, and he strives for insufficiency, whence it is made sharpness; but the portion is much greater how yellow bile, whence fear dominates St. he who would dominate the snow is already bold, but not He will make an animal timid, like a fox. When] they there the temperature of the sharps is caused by much bile black, streaked with yellow bile, and those natural
indeed both, but moderately heated they come together; from which he miftura quality the skin, as St. the hairs will become colored fox Most of these are called Creteilfes of the effete color, whence they were cut, and next to the vulgar Greek proverb tela kW. Disadvantages but those things which arise from affection are easy you will collect The signs of fubjiavi color. A yellow color, such as in Melie's foot, a tureen made of slime, and yellow bile who much phlegmatic St bile yellow with me temperate lancholia abound, in his judgment even Ariftotelis lukewarm, lazy, slow, confe- quickly to the great halls, and she became foolish because of her reduced appetite dunt: and since it is cold to desire more such as he is able to digest, he also devours them when they are cited, the intemperate i? quefigna will utter: but the yellow bile aroused them to anger he will also move, but fear because of ad mixed cold, will render ineffective: in ab-: 'entes tamenblafphemiis, minifque fe con turn whence murmurings, de- surrendered to traditions Rule IV eZ Fire of red fire of a purple color in the face of man. I call it a red color, which it melts from a lot of muddy water when Chromocritical art. with natural yellow bile and thin phlegm which they refer to when they grow up with a violent mo you are heated, and properly purple ell. Who for imbued with it, 6c fanguine, abounding in natural heat, and suffocate with futile spirits they are You are an abundance of spirits minds, the acuity of the intellect tell therefore they will become sharp: but eat the sharp those who are capable of dealing with the idiosyncratic aci he returns it, even if it is choleric and fenugreek too much fervour, they were more moved by what they did, but that he should return his bile to such an extent. Which: this com plexion defects are produced, the reader examines FUmmi I'll leave the swim. A flaming color indeed, color in the fa- with the nave than the inflammation between ce amintt for he argues) at} mania, and phrenefin this will incline the funnels in color, of natures mnium Sc the worst, and the most dangerous: see twice their eyes are flaming, and like fire constantly exhaling, femper to harm while, to be ready to be seated; no such control in words; there is no hum in the eyes strength no courtesy in his manners; no in tr. quarrels, content they live in a way that is intolerable to others, ad for any words kindled into cholera cunt, and while the leaves of the fibiipfis please, the fibifolis they applaud, fe folos pr x om xflimant from others and most of them as offensive they are caught, from whom every one should beware; no one will perish with this, or in any other way It also tends to be light on the back of the head. Because be a little more spirited in the contest rit, easily into mania, phrenefin thus added be brought forth, as the high intensity of a smoker, the non-folk burst into abuse, fed hands do not really bring violence they are burned Rule V The colors of the eyes are fixed. "The smell of the eyes and the bodies of the how are they? hence we see the white bodies as have very brown eyes, black eyes gros concerning which see Simon Portius de the color of the eyes At this point only chy foim rendum ell, why fool man so much variety He should have moist eyes. For in order to properly Ari- foifiibfioteles profelfus ell, each fpecies let him rejoice, for animals have a kind of eye peculiar to them They have the same color of their leashes, like cattle; ciebus: which is not found in man; for among men some have good eyes, others do not gray, some with fawn, others of another color they are closed to the eyes. So go to this one the caufa of rietta is searched. Some light and light: to some fewness and to the multitude of aqueous humor: the two planets they are, others are threatened by another. We give I say that he who knows the reason why man they diverge interleaded, so that scarcely any re- to perish the poliic, who did not want from the other variety He is certainly of the variety of eyes the caufam is also alfignairusfit, which is used in it is not possible for the betterment of the humors to fall, so ell of higher confidence, foii platica; women must be brought by force. So we did it
we will bring the variety to happen, because the man And the woman, while they know faith, I wander, fmt ani mo, and according to the various phantasms of both and they are different, so also the concept of fub to those imaginations they appear various and divergent there For I was born from the mifliira of Man but most of it comes from the bottom the generation of the parents at the time of intercourse, ex the plastic force has a fua origin: of which fua can you find a treatise in the art of noftra Ml- gnetic, head deMagnetifmo imagination you Additionally, no member let the lovers please, as the eyes: no knowledge for those who wish to do so let faith provide the way, and the said eyes from various depths gination with the spouse, then especially of those fighting with those lively eyes in various ways they want, in the spirit that they cook, a variety also The temperature was brought to them by this fixed, and intended no one will doubt his imagination. Plastic au the color in the eyes of the leader near the na tural humor conflict, or mul- the imagination of a pregnant woman; from this it is clear that the pupils and irises of the eyes the colors do not come from the temperature of the leaves; Fed to this figure they determine the circles dam work is done with the chromatic power of plaftic fu- bordmai: a, as it forms the eye, even so bottom with due shape, due to those colors joins Hence the most difficult of the eyes color is given to the Jews in the business of divination while most people do not exfoliate four they are obtained by the temperature of the fluids, fed as said mell, the proper origin fux caufasfor- they are Kecmla VI On the color of the hair. Ubrieum also business ell de colo- rum in the hair of a variety of elucidations, ob to bring judgment upon the various things which the priests have; Indeed, he was fed by reason of abundance, or failure a kind of food, as in children; or because of the union or the rawness of the food with which it is nourished tur: thus the native heat of the first concoflion the right artist, either by disease or by net te m unaltered hair varies; for another hair color in childhood, another in adolescence tia, another in feneilute: that in mourning We see K Ctrhomines so different fis vultiihvs finish eyes ind to touch lovers Dijficile di eye strap rum of the Jews what The Great Book of Art Part we see it happen. The hair is also from the furrow they lose their color from superfluous fluids by way of tincture: ; This is the breath with a bilious, pessimistic, and melancholic demeanor the material of the hair was allowed to be the color of pi they impart, in this agreement, a black hair from the fbe- with black stool: bile excrement; from yellow bile yellow, white from slime, red from permiftion bile and phlegm; and weep when we receive the flowers weep overflowing with inner inclination, &tempera- viverfe re- meflti cerebri. The outside air is also pure gianesdium to impress the color of the hair verfos pilo- for it is certain in different regions IffidlrJ'change the hair, not so much for the diverla of the brain at a temperature greater than that of the ambient air tion: indeed, an external color in the region a white body covered with white hair burning the food, making it black it introduces the color of ipfls; contrary to their truth those who live in the north are soft and smooth the hairs are shed; because these are muddy and sweet they win grace and grace, strength that; hence the color is also more cheerful. This It also appears in the hairs of animals, which for to experience the different conditions of the sky experience teaches frequent changes. Scaliger refers to Wozka in the Sarmatian region not any animals or compatriots or from another place, it was transferred to whiteness. In Canada also, flveNovaFranciaanimalia, Angulis they change color twice a year; which; fane ma gnam in the hairs changing the power of the demon air &rant- She also of certain waters Mutant co-property is that animals dye various co- lorempiio- loribus: for in some places they are white, in others black, you may drink the waters by virtue: of which see We know the underground world of various kinds the nature of the waters; so that henceforth it is difficult to judge of the inner character he loves the confection. I. V. Rule: Of the color of Vrina, and of the clays. Rede, faiente Hippo crates, nothing in He declared that the patient was so sick with acute diseases
rare, than the colors of the urine, which with innu They merge into a kind of sheer variety, the heavy ones a quaftity arises among the Medici, which right in the urine of the chromatic diversity of the caufa becomes Some have thought of urine, when ex the moisture that is smoked will be generated, and pure watery, and thin prims of the decoction from crementum ftt, for that reason ad cojores fe ha to drink, to use water for dyeing: for it is made of water from faith and nature has no color fed him from things coming from the stranger the bus acquires by dipping in the fire, thus urine'co lores from the fubftances of any one who dyes it with permission Others want to return to the company fringed, that which is next to diverge yellow; bile let the miftura receive different colors. No Science Vi- the fantasia can fubfifter; not before, when ie Chri in man fano this us mifturse vegitia appa- they ought to be true, but experience is not he teaches: nor worse, since in many people he dies twice the urine is black, or intensely red, which There is no reason why the dye should be made from yellow bile touch We therefore say that urine should not be returned to co fed from the miftura of any humor; by natural heat through the alteration of the leaf, and digestion; not fecal matter and water with heat warming from the natural fuo color tempera the chin recedes, so that the urine, warmed by the heat, &adufta- For fire, fire proper to heat it is transformed into different colors matter, as I taught in the mineral experiments mouse For it has the same reason as urine to natural heat, let natural water be to the skin is altered; for the boiling water by natural influence into green, and hence into yellow, finally, we try to degenerate into black. Thus the natural heat, while in the cold temperature it is typhoid, it produces lemon urine, or co lore pales, which is the best and the most perfect: He is very close; but the natural heat is intensified He also focuses on nature and color he urinates: hence in tertian fevers very intensely we see red urine: but with heat na- r Dion's fatigue will appear either white or white black and where there is the greatest force of indigence, as in the bowels, clear, limpid, and profuse urine water will be returned. But in maniacs, neticis efledibus urine due to a strong ca The strap is rendered black. Eph therefore, the natural warmth of the color was removed he urinates, but the bile still passes through the next cup it is For the heat directly into the bile, this Finally, it acts as an intermediary in the urine. Exfenenti experience4 He teaches the truth. For if any colored make the water boiled with fire boil, it will produce them for different degrees of heat different colors: as water dyed with crocus, from yellow to intense red, then to pur pure, will eventually degenerate into black co internet The same in all colored waters it remains to be seen. I do not deny, however, that there are others also caufas effle pofie urinates coloratives, quemad the method will be seen a little later. For it is possible For example, a white color in the urine or from a lack of natural heat, a latent rawness viz aquafi, ferofi, little colored, velobftru- dione, or by the impaling of the vital parts by strong humors, melancholy; or even because of the abundance of drink, as happens in drunkards; or finally by admiftion somewhere j us fubftanti? dyeing it white, which very much in purulent sputum, and go- norrhoi" tirs Chromocrltkd. .Tiorrivois pafiionlbus is clear. Yes, I say, burn na red dye to have different fuse stems may; first from the power and efficiency of heat: fi rriMnbm erqm heat has been in the breath, fuo natural, urine the lemon will be returned; fi is intended, it is rendered ru bea it was very intense, black because of too much the mud will escape: it will be hot we intensify with a virulent, green humor it will be rendered: fiextinetioniproximus, creruiea escape That, however, by accident dyed in a red and purple color with no excess or lack of native heat, as it is done in the kidney, and by an acute ulceration, or for the reason of the color, which is an accidental burn He sank three times. Or even urinate from things Efu, even those who could. Innumerable: therefore Cauf efie pofllmt color urinates not in kings
so much, fed in the fanatism of the pnepolientie. Eli He urinates a different color before, and another pofl fumpt him, another in the evening, another in the morning;
children, one in adolescence, another in adulthood bus, one in choleric, another in phlegmatic cis, another in the fanguines, and finally another in me lancholics However, in the fans of any one close to men, and at any time urinate femper adflavedine incline, but que intenfione, velremiflione duntaxatfla- The difference between the two can be easily indicated the color of the fans in the eluccfcent urine; in but for the sick, for the most part all colors urin are pratternatural. what it is time to make a brief announcement oar And since not so long ago in Ara cutting down the records of the doctors, the futile judgment of the colors of the urine It was a very lively medicine here attach a fluidioforum translated from Arabic in fact, not to do anything that is not he omits the flram in any way that seems relevant we are. Chromocritici From the smell of urine, I learned from the colors of the Arabs tis impromptu, and translated into Latin by Audlore. Signs of a white color in the urine. When a white color occurs in the urine, or from ob- fire, as in the hay, or because of the heat the native's weakness and lack of strength, or due to the weakening of humidity; thence thence you will form the rules. I. Clear urine indicates obstruction inflammation of the spleen, pallor of the face, heavy to your physical conflict. White urine with lead ring pilation of the brain, and the primary disease of the assembly denotes III. White and bright, crafty and needy abundance of humor. IV. Purulent ash, renal ulcer, 8c you will White mixed with lead, calculus kidneys, liver V L White, crafia, fat phtifim figni let it happen Signs of the color black. pter of the heat of the native heat, or on account of the miftura of the black matter, or, finally, on account of the total extinction of heat; follow the rules you will form Black urine with fever of the same color in fever, headache, and lie marks the disturbance. Nigra graveolens, peripneumonia, a violent inflammation of the lungs it marks him, and usually near death. III. Urine first green, then black it denotes death, because it shows the exudation fuffbcing the native heat of the cold. IY. Black urine faintly suffocates death denotes fi nevertheless permanferitadfeptimuna day, fpemjalutisprasbet V. Nigra in the quarter of fever, lig whether it is YI. Black urine with burning fever, with the furrow of the he represents imminent death. !Pale-colored clay in the urine. fUm livor urin last cooling for, as the Medici say, it will shape From there you will form the rules. I. Urine of a leaden color, a cousin of riiortis it is II. Pale urine in the lower part, pef- the head of the head is suffocating. III. Lead color in the urine continuously permanent, it denotes moisture, and heat native suffocation. IV. Pale, the color of a leaden fire with granules and blisters at the bottom, ulcer of the lung nis, phtifim fignificat. V. Lead color thin with fat dine inftar of oil, the destitution of natural hu refers to the humidity. A leaden color in frenzied death marks the theme. E Green Artis magm Book Part Fgna of green color. most viruses in the urine 'weep in the corrupt waters' then, you will form these rules from there. A green color indicates a high fever death II. The color of green in the child fpafmum fri- the nerves abound in humors and guides then he defines III. Green color with little clouds I gave, and with the pain of the stomach, the poison was smoked it is an indication. IV. Green color with a green circle on it frenzied, announces death. Red color fgna. ok red urine? arise, or from the hair-dressing between the fur caused by inflammation, or from inflammation it affects nature, as in all fevers; out of tin You will follow these rules. Red urine as a great deal of heat marks the chief. II. Red in nephritic latent ulcers it is an indication. III. Red cloudy liver ulcer no tat IV. A little oily colored urine
by stench, foretells death, because stench the corruption of the spirits, little quoting weakness of power, par his fignificadiflblution. V. Decline the red color into the lead frog, ulcers of the foot, Red and black, I swell the liver marked the mation VII. Red five fiery color, fever newspaper VIII. Urine of a fiery color dsnfa croce mifta, marks the rashness. ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI From SOC. JESUS PRESBYTER GREAT ART LIGHT AND SHADOW The Second Book ON ACTINOBOLISMS S E V RADIATION Part One ACTIVITY OF LIGHT; SIVE ON THE RADIATION OF LIGHT to which or the principal Idea, the nature of the whole; operations are flooded C A P U T I: All the yirtutes of natural things are scattered in the orbit of the dijfufa light. A nature God of things the founder, how much which fuae eflentig con control could, reprasfen- should have died, the Founder that nothing is better more ornate, and prettier he will find; it is done, as long as the body He would stir this world with his mind, form for him He should have died with me as his wife the rise of the whole class of quantities, and in it curved, small, difcrimin, and prftantifma you will do all things in vain. In fact All things were made by the founder, the Wise, who made the Three push the image Hence the center point some phphteric things such as an image, fuperficies where is the inner image, and the way to it will be found while, with each infinite point from fe ipfo ufc the equality of all men should be attained tem gini is understood, at the point of faith in this am threatening the breadth; it becomes a point the fuperficies of denfinity with the amplitude shared in proportion fint sharks. Hence there is a point between fuperfi- ditoremte- mule the equality of the world, the most daring. union, most beautiful confederation, connected, relation, proportion, commenfus. And when three fint plain center, fuperficies, inter wall, yet they are one, so that none indeed he pollutes the thought, but not the whole be destroyed This, then, is the true fitness of the body the image of the world, as either fimplicitly, or with whatever to smoke I have created treachery among the corporeal ras adfpirat Therefore the bodies of the ipfa when through the fefe they would contain the borders of the fuperfice tur, nor do they desire to multiply fe ipfa in or bem, it was given to various virtues, qiun ni- they are indeed lingering in their bodies, but they are true a little freer and lacking material in the body rea, fedfua in a certain way, fusing the matter which om- Dimenfionesfufcipiat Geometrical, egresse-niA te they were rent, the world they fed upon. What mi-m Therefore, let that be the beginning of everything in adorned with the world, light, I say, the whole thing in the corporeal world the most ancient, powerful and the mother of all, corporeal and spiritual of the world So the Great Book of Art It the man of the world In the same laws, which the world was to be adorned, it was passed: see indeed, you diffuse the rays of virtue into the sphere the whole world, and to that extent all others actions of natural things Tarsus He did not encourage them to work. Deque I made a prefcribente with the tongues in order, in To treat the curfew of this book is lively, as ingenious nature: industrious, and imaginative clean the ropes at the end of the workmen He opened it three times. CHAPTER II. On the radiation of light and living beings Jfeeciemn. U M light on small bodies should have been communicated, his ef flow of ejaculation, radiation of fire ipfiobfuam origin in place they should have taught them; but when the light he becomes capable of geometrical laws, commun that nication is not in any line of dimensions It could be done by conjugation. I will share there, therefore, or through the sharp edge of the fountain, which is absurd, when there is no fubftance efie poflit, Phiiofopho tefte, immediate the beginning of the operations of the fair, I would like to admit the middle end of St a mouse, what a thing to steal; nor by another hidden power; therefore by nothing else but by radiate this flow of light, which is like a kind of local egelfio, and flowed out I am away from the body, with worldly bodies he had to defend himself. And this is AmopMta, a radiation of fire, of which the presiding officers were infititut
it is whose true geometrical genealogy, when in ae the quality of the spaces through which the point the middle infuperficia is taught to lift up; cer te fphaera evolution could not be done, nifi li to them, according to the third pronouncement of the preceding: For if he used curved lines in fe ifas recurring; nor should it be done in giving ret equality, nor in the propagation of power I spread my emotions. These things may be better understood; No- vum but only nature, while in his works, feed him ctat either the unity of the parts, or the feparation the one and the other being made by the motion of the fub line returned; for the shorter each di- ftant, this is meant more unitedly, but reduce it are all lines between the same points very short; therefore all the movement of things is one thy will, as ponderunl to earthquakes, chaly twice to magnetenl, in line returned to be necessary it is smoke; for the stool would become fi, contrary to nature Pronounced fence with no savings he would laugh; indeed, we are not all parties they would tend to the same end, fed in me God was traveling somewhere, which was to unite al teri, from this allurement of union, The same about the continuous movement of feparation, which in natural things it is said to be violent, intellectual they must be bound; but when he returned, he did not return to the snow on the contrary Among all things, however, the mtmdana heart The sun is the first to use the pores, so it is fua from the action feuadtinobolifmo cceteris all prcelii- cet. And I propagate this wonderful light from indeed it springs from a fountain, but not from it it is torn apart; hence it is indeed diffused, never however, it was fufa: for it was fua of the root, as well as of the mother He clings to the vine, the sprouts, and the branch from the radium It propagates those who have a Stalker from it are propagated, nourished, increased, con- they are relieved: that first light is unique, and one, Sc brought into the world: this fruitful multiplicity in ra 8c innumerable lines are lost, Se those indeed not only long, fed la- tuifculas, leaving themselves in sharp, those who define me, even if the snow rises in progreflu true interval diftantes, mino- Dkiti6 indeed, first, then more. And hgc uu' It was a mystery why the opticians defined the ray a luminous line, or illumination through for the Latins inve they do not, the Greeks said ViWSe radia- the stream of such lines, Se Whence we diftin- we direct the light from the ray as light three times from the fruitful one: for the ray is the light of faith from the first leaping into red smoke, 8e sharp, nor in a line only, he fed himself into a cone prominent But the propagation of light is not it is conceived to be made of lines around the rays, indeed it revolves around, If between the rays femper more DiftantCs fills every place; The light itself indeed, it is possible to reach the end of the rays a bus it is clear at dawn; but not at the end of the ray light, as from which they emanate. Mode A lively flow, then, now how fue}Ui! l n f r i mnis. let it flow; nourished by the tongues of the bright body dtis, let us see whether it is fully perfected by the sun. In order that this may be done, you must first enlighten us hafce lines by no means like Mathema ticas fed to use Phyficas, Sc endowed with breadth To trust, to bring oneself completely the flow of light from all and fin- with phytic points of the throat, and also from the whole of the Sun to touch with protection, not fuccefliva indeed of light, fed perpetually during the emanation, qup the crowd of dark bodies obftaculis in it is interrupted; with which the fublatis of the ray fspace they penetrate at the moment, in no part of the ma- rDc Affiinobolifmis which they incline to another, to no net quentur, fed redtifiimarum to the inftar line rum, straight from the spring I went through the immense heat rum fpacia elementary athmofphajram uniformly indeed in every country the light is deformed, but always in the same place they are thrown motionless; from which point there is none, or They are driven by their own power, or by another's power, and not in place they have no need for anything, nor if anything they are removed, or removed from their place; moved by true light ipfi either produce it, or are drawn from it; abeunteluce, abeunt ipfi: moto diapha- no, what they had permeated, they did not produce; motion even dimly lit in a place of natural things.
bind Cut into anything transparent rint, five thin, as air, live fluid as water, live the leaf as a cryllalus, at the same moment they penetrate, illuminate, fill: and that in various ways; li into the air, into the ethereum, re the blows penetrate; I used a transparent denfius water and vapours, refracted and reflected so many shade flowers are made, as much as the medium it has been denfius; so as to hofce luminous rays every color appears in clouds, water, and snow We would like to say that the income is efficacious the method is described in the preceding book, and it will be called fufius in those who succeed. CHAPTER III In the de-entity of the rays, are accidents j! nt, mm[abflating, [eu bodies? IRIFIC radiation a little before those narrated you will go so far to all Phi- so far fcurte vifiE are as scarce there was someone who said something ca so hidden nature it is certain that he will bring it: fubftantiame therefore will they be, or only Ipecies, and the first images? light, and ref, as they call it, intentional? Certainly when the rays shine through the light, they emit light, and let them warm, put them in the list of real beings more than the intentional writing they are, nor do they seem to be I will give the accidents, with the proper accidents Iit jubjecfo adhefie, or a fineejufdem be removed corruption; and the rays are seen as alien to no one to happen, do not depart from the fountain, or go to it pour rum; I am from the Sun, and now the light as they diverge, they add to the same fern: therefore, the accidents of the Sun cannot be said they are But with the same rays, the remaining five I fell in love with the world by constantly beckoning him they find, and never depart from him; s. adii'fiU- therefore they do not polish to happen to him, and confe- 'f luenter $the5'is accidents for no reason di they must: fed forfan air to happen polish: for it is well known that the air will be covered with rays at the end, by these accidents the luminary becomes: therefore the rays the air is polished, and at the end of the same corruption; therefore they will be accidents, which to meet in all the diaphanous hyls we see But to explain how she fint acci- teeth, here Rhodes, here broad; forfan as litates? and colors? Yes Ariftoteles. But neither they polish to be reconciled with the lime: for the colors mixed, use proper qualities? itain- funtfubjeffis, as the end of fubjccti corruption they will not be taken away; but the rays are already alive now be gone, now lift up the air, fubjecto ma a harmless and uncorrupted spindle: therefore not a beam they have in the entity fua colors, quality! account of their own affairs. Rays too not at all from air, water, and other transparent things they suffer, or are corrupted by being absent from them or predation; without digging, Sc the air we see it corrupting, when it is not proper fint radio fubjefta; therefore neither diaphanous the quality of the bodies, or the color of the so-called they are But neither are their quality, nor relation, neither aftio, nor paflio nor aaie Mi- time, neither place, nor fit, nor tooth becomes Yt- they have them, and they are not held by them: nui-diM' Therefore, of the kind of rays they are called transparent teeth But we are not talking about anyone here bet the kind of accident, fed about it, that to any object proper, and it is natural, whether that is, the ray to the fui exiftent he needs a tentacle and a support, what be destroyed by fublato? Certainly, things should be better we would trust, the rays in no way It seems to need some support: for they needed no fib, rather a relative fib what a stranger they needed. And if this were done, they needed it They did not need air or water. Why then in they defy the air, water, innonfei- though my own fubject, be in the ether they spin, and yet in these they are every day, none with their help they are in them; fedperfefuntin them and they trust in them with former powers. Therefore, the air water, watery rays are not obj edta: therefore they are lacking in fubj; therefore by faith far from the Sun they exifunt in the light: therefore in fubftance. Chest ra I'm sure I'll tell you let the fubftance of whose kind, materially, or form or composed of both? no first, when below the immaterial rays of God we are talking nor the form, with the rays, etc long, wide, deep, and conical in shape affianced, let them take the triple dimension, fraction also capable of breaking and bending rather, bodies, in what form they are seen, no Indeed, such things as elementary ones; no an antitype, such as fpathy; I'm fed up rarer omnibus in nature rum fubtiiiffimis fubtiliora But how? bodies, fi all even the most difficult cryftalline they penetrate bodies, when they penetrate bodies is it denied that it has been given up to this point? But God ces, forlan the corporeal a day, to the amount of three they are capable of being measured; into the corporeal, into almost at any given moment they pass: not indeed of forms, such as phyphics those needing material to be exifled, neither such as are divine from all contagion of the body thighs, fed half between each. But be this, already a third kind of beings Artit maznce Book Part and hitherto they are able to confer a meaning unknown to all Philosophers. it will be fixed, and a beam of light will flow out then no longer in quality, fed the first Ca white roofs referencing ipfos rays, in fe fubft Rentes, afon te ramen never feparated forms fimplices, and fnbflantias fi lest we should be forced to say bodily things. Whoever wishes to learn it is permitted through me; I am carried away by the force of the light of the continuous reasoning the nation has been carried so far by the impulse of the nation, why? in such a complicated business it must be said to Nepheus: therefore, in a matter so difficult, I do nothing easy I had determined nothing, lest the new Phi in the former li' Bro, we seem to be contradicting you. Abob- the darkness of this light turns to darkness retiring, let us refer to those, which no more light for us, and greater light CHAPTER IV. All objects that are subject to that pattern of light radiate into the world; U i C propofition ipfum test faith city Since one the same living thing, one and that at that time to be seen by many, who is, as from anyone with a living pound, every medium punished, among which the reda is to be led, it will be irradiated. Ex by which it is made that all things are alive, the whole that his fpecies in every punished medium that which returns to the connate, let it flow together, and be terminated, and the whole middle of fpieces it becomes filled with living creatures, and is crowded together therefore the living in the middle, how many points of the middle, each, certain, and its own viable radiation he will see one and the same fpecies. Whence it is done, so as to live in the norm of the rays of light parallel, and concurrent, multiple the riage that he will radiate to those who kill with fear: which: all fuse Vitellius from Alhazen demon- flrat, that is, every point is viable to complete the fpecies and the fuperficies of each that to seize, and in every pound fuperfi- I saw that all the living creatures were gathered together; in equal proportion to any pundurii fpeculi ra diare, and the whole living fpecies in every one let it be a pound of fpeculi, and a piece of every one where is he alive in all his perfection? Yes a living pound in the middle of the air then radiation into the entire fsphere evolved I am afraid, of any kind, almost everything is reliable they are in the opaque bodies, five fuper- in fiction, in the hemisphere; nor yet from the same viable weight on any object it can be worn out and tied, even fi an opaque intermediate, otherwise, no intermediate let him give way; as long as it can radiate. For Sphae may be alive ra AB, whose weight A, becomes the object of the hollow body on the peripheral side of the I mean by the pound A, you can't lead me to anything while the periphery L D H. reda for L H tangent to the periphery of the sphere A B, in the mass A, he made an object the periphery inPun push H, L. Open therefore from the mass A I did not take any responsibility pofie adpunda pe rifferiae HD L, at- 3ue therefore I am sorry for the trouble while A, into nothing pair of bows to radiate, fed in leaves on the side of the arc H C EL: that clearly where q; open in the figures Spherical flat B, and in the Sphere which that of pounds a bright pound beyond the tangent Spher, do not radiate he may, or may not, use it beyond the plane If indeed a pound A, in the hollow of some force at the bottom of the tree sphere would be put, to use in fi figure B, of the previous figure kAElinoboldfmus Lucis. It is clear that it radiates throughout the whole area. holiday: Verbo, every pun&um, five lights
while, five viable, to all those middle pun- tfta radiates, so that the returned line can be led. What a radiation I was elegantly fanemore Lucretius laments as he sings. I will begin to act on this very strongly these things As for the ejfe from which you call Jimulacra mouse: Quce quajb membranee fummo of the body re rum They fly to and fro in the winds. And elsewhere; Now, let me tell you the most important things focused On every side, and in the cages are thrown the learned pair you And so things also flow from all things thrice It is said that ZS is released into the cages on both sides you But let this radiation be fruitful It is commonly known as an optical figure. Since for every viable pundtum will radiate, finally the entire viable width in which libertvifibilis middle point of the pyraniid effi it has as many sides as there are corners. If therefore the circle was livable with rays, and the point of the middle was in the radius from the center of the circle with the ass flowing normally, the whole will collide the radiation of the perfed cone; fi true pundtum be in the oblique central line, the cone of oblivion when he will form: f! indeed, it has been viable the radiation of the wire collides with the pyramid I will draw: be a pentagon, a pyraniid pentahendra, fic ad infinitum For as tedte Vitellius demonftrat, opticg figures, five lighted pyramids with mutual mustaches, and vertices, innumerable figures are formed between radiated True, in order to flourish in let us proceed with this matter, which: about Wa- five didtafunt radiation, they are the same with short and easy propofitions we decided to strengthen Profit. I. OuandocunqueSol ingrefi circular hole fm in the parallel hole of the plant said} he casts a circular light on it,
Let A be a luminous body, B C be a hole, which let the radiant flow of light pass over the plain Is there a parallel for us, which is made DE? I say this draw a bright projection circle: when for, when used in cones, it will be called a flat cone the bafi is made parallel, the fattion becomes a circle: er go when the circle becomes BC, also ipfam D E, fe- dtionemipfi CB, parallel, draw a circle it is unintelligible. The same can be said about the shadow: be for BC, it would be circulusfolidus, projedlio umbircd in the plane DE, it would be a circle. Profit II. Whenever "the bright body through fo ramen is a three-sided ramen in the plane of the fibi pa rallelo, will throw a greater light indeed, [Edfigure of the hole prophus fi mile m. It is bright body A; B CD, hole triangular EF G plane; I mean project light dtam EFG, fi- ipfi a thousand times fix the hole rae BCD, Gtfi ma jor the same; for for three dudes bus rays ABF, ACE, ADG, will be open by ii. z. choose EU mentors cold that is proposed tur: fi veroC D, I was dark rit, there will be a shadow FEG gur? opaque BGD Confession I TTInc is clear, pofle to be done, as well as the perforation J-entry not aquilateral, equilateral the ram, however, casts light on the opposite wall goes Let it be a pyramid, radius AB CD, in pre retreating figure, whose mustache becomes B CD, made and the ipfa of the pyramids is flat to the beak of the oblivion by which, what becomes EFG, will be which is no longer a triangle equilateral; therefore be in is bound by a triangle EFG, bright body A, to radiate, it will be adlinobolif- my mustache BC D, triangu ajquilate the light rum Ditto for the shadow toadaai Cen- Artis Magna Book (Part Conjecture II. It also appears, it can be done, by which would like another figure that is not squishy I would like to throw light on it Guess IIT T TInc is also clear, how given the fora- to be cast, or given an opaque elliptical shadow wants to throw a circular Profit III. Whereof the two circles, and the fi- a thousand miles round about the less rice is removed between the fe, the more to each figure of one circle they come together QInttwo circles, ABC E, ScAFCA, fail in by piercing AC, killing: I say what by what less peripherally ABC, AFC, between fe difti- they rub, all the more if ABC A, from the periphery I will compare the shape of both circles to the circle I will take the smallness of one's ass; or become and the same about the triangles DEF, FBC, etc. ; it must be said to any polygons: quan
for the sides DE, Sc BF, of the said triangle so much so that they have lost faith in each other to the inferiority of one triangle more ac they will give way: but the end of the two circles, and the military and the politic at the periphery they polish to approach, so that the difference is hardly lit perceptible, and therefore each one of the circle game, and both are considered to be one small figure: that when it is plain to the eye, further de- It needs no demonstration. Therefore, what two- then of circles, that was offensive while Profit 'TQidii, who from the extremities of the body of light di through the opposite ends of the hole they fall, between the hole and the body. while they make each other Oh, it's a light bulb AB, you're burning holes CD, through whose opposite ends C, from the extremities of the luminous body let the rays fall down AC, Sc B D: I mean these common slaughter E, between the opening, body that the light should fall: for radii AC, with which that by clearing the hole body AB, two triangles they tremble at each other relepe dtantia AEB, 8c CED; by which rum bafes AB, Sc CD, cum they will be greatly missed if the vertices between the two to exult the means. Eli further rays AC, killing E, common the vertex of both triangles: she therefore between the hole light body ca he says that it was demonltran while QoroUarium (Primum It is clear that the fi body of light and leaving holes A B, C D, there will be sharks, will be E, the vertex of the triangles exactly in the middle between both. If, therefore, So the beams of the beam passed through the hole in so far they would go away peacefully, how great is the greatness of the Sun what would be the greatness of the solar system; but beyond the hole the light was projected by the shark he had exceeded the state, the greater. If below average tate, so much the lesser femer, as much as the fora He hastened closer to me, the future. (Orrollary Second p Atet, too, be the luminous body of the equa- let it be a hole, let the light into the plane of relished by the shiny body of a shark it would be: indeed, if it were greater, the light passed minor: become less, maj orem Who all clearly visible in the figure, in three circles, ST, C D, C N, where the bright CD, the shark of the hole ni B, projects a bright circle EF, squa lem CD; bright body ST, larger fora mine B, throws HO, my bright circle knowledge of the bright body ST; CN, but bright the body, less through the hole B, projects a light the circle IK, the larger bright body CN. corolla light of light Third corollary. p tet also, forms through the hole i fparents are seen to be inveterate, fubin- out of equals other major minor to die Profit V. The sun flows in many directions not in net lines he will describe a figure, a circle it crept closer. The most enlightening experience of this matter it is also possible to see in the fences, through which the angles of the Sun's rays to the object of the wall tem prolapficilucum truer than trian they will cut their throats. The matter has long since passed away Philophophus and all his passions, moved by Neo the thirds, too, were very much fanned; fed by penetrated by a few Philophophus in the cone I paint the diopus of light, and the orbicular of the Sun he casts down the ram: in which indeed he touches I am sorry for this phenomenon; fed not the total; with rays from the point of any luminous body a long rod, not only circular, fed to the figure of each one: let the body be attached gant- So do not run into any ray they run, they gather in fear into the world; fed now who one in one way, another in another. And indeed from the whole light body into one The light fell on the ground, and the storm did not come either the figure is constantly filled with light, fed it, what a luminous body flees Nor in the worse part of the problem for it is not the fate of the Sun light the circular fire, and the light of the straight li if they are brought forth, the snow is also stumbled upon, by which means through the quadrangular holes prolapfu lu the mind is dulled, and from the corners pro- He will be fooled by the ceflis, and he will take care of the body more luminous than the fchemaaffe of the hole he made a fence of a contrary shape. It is true that
to explain the taminfigne phenomenon more easily there; rarity effedus velutijurefibi to claim it seemed Therefore let AB be the body of the Sun, and let it be an aperture any shape velvety CD, per than the splendor of the sun the plane of FE, it is supported, already from the infinite pun ctis rimula: CD, fate will be two C, ScD, confi- to run away Therefore, through the point D, the ra are drawn the gods A DE, BDK: by puntt um vero C, they led there are others ACH, BCF, who with from the extremity let the Sun flow, all the rest of the rays they will contain within fe; . Since then, as in pro the light of the sun is demonstrated by the retreating through the hole inftar the shape of the transfmifli point The round of the sun! to bear and through the point C, the difta of the cleft is taken, its diameter will be KF, and equally from all the other points of the ridge Iplendores of thunder into the fuperficio, where FE, they will be sent We already say these two things to him threats according to the third propofition, the farther the plane FE, from the hole di- it will be done in LM, at the round of one to approach the theme of the circle more, as it appears in LM, where the illuminations are actually greater, L Artis Magna Book (Part I. and therefore bring about a more admirable circulation give It is clear, therefore, that the farther the radius CF, C H, were they produced, the greater would be the dia the meter of illumination FH, for it will escape MN: And in a similar way from radio production DK, DE, the diameter of the other illumination K E, will be increased, and will become L O; finally roughly ipforum periphery fimul majors are, and consequently to one circle of friendship even nearer to the third propofition they will approach And although it is produced from the rays ction should be increased, not folumpredift dia meters of illuminations, fed also their dif- to make FK and FIE different, however in view of those, with no appreciable increase, they are increasing; which arises from it, because it is an angle FCH, majorcftanguloFBK, peri(5. problem and therefore the legs of F C, H C, are more diva ricantur, than legs FB, KB, &ideofipro- they are led, F H grows much more, while she is away says MN, than FK; while it turns out that MO: in the same way, KE grows more, while it becomes OL, than HE, while it becomes NL. Whence of them peripheral to the shape of one disk at last they will be seen to run together; but I lived much longer let them escape to roundness, be of the others except A, B, points through the holes C D, other circles would be thrown out, and finished three times with a circle of light, the circle is made of infinity with bright points, and all my circles de- they wrote, from infinite circles aftinobolifmo At last one of the caufatis will be alive, clearly it is clear Corollary Trimum'. by which it happens, of course, as the whole light, which it is received on a plane, see the circle as an annulus there All this is true in the end, as the truth it may appear more clearly, by the experiments of com let's try Third corollary. In short, everyone's body was bright shape polygons: through any hole a multi-sided path, that is its shape he expresses, whose body is a semi-transparent body as appears in this apposite figure, it may be conducted a little better. Experiment TTIncequitur, Sun through what he re-warmed, all the more in a flat circle, who the term efb is parallel to the radiating fuperfiiei light, projected light to each circle to approach the form nearer, and at last I breathed deceived, to appear perfectly circular, when every hole pierced by the solar ray He would like to provide, as well as the tefpect of the great Sun when the wind, when of the company Second Corollary, You see, finally, how the enlightenment whether the pyramids, the fireflies, which are made of clay the points of the solar body through the four sides, or any polygons with holes, in let them spread over the world: for their axes are near the holes are cut off on one side of the top, on the other side of the center they reach through the beak; therefore a circle they complete on both sides, the other of which the solar orb, the other the place of the plane or he wants, to which the leaf axes of the pyramid through they dye Standing still in this circle the portions of the beaks circle around: ex Any two left, or three small holes close to each other, by which as many illuminations are given to the object which paper should be transferred; litigated, moved
a small branch of paper, and a little hairpin they will appear reclining, and therefore to one when they will not carry the circle. Wherefore the further the paper will be removed, the larger the edges they will become more inclined to each other, and therefore they coalesced into almost one circle never, however, to the Geometric round they will reach their state, although I have delayed it because let them throw The reason for this is that, as It has been said that radii are not mathematical lines cae, fed some breadth of land, &confe- what are the points from which they merge, not ma thematic, fed phy fic fint, of which also infinite, never a circle of mathematics when, they make a geometrical fire. Experiment II. We will bring another to this from Kepler. For if you take the place of a bright body, for example, a square table, feu li but the hole was triangular; of then I cut off the points of the corners with clay a square wire attached to the apofitara poft hole board, so that the sides of the hole the snow shaves, you draw the wire, then the incident you have noticed the chalk marks; no surprise at all you will not see, from many triangular figures one of the holes in the wall to draw a pet, that is to say, like a tabu la, a four-square book. If wood You will make a triangular board with fire, and the holes man InfignU $erknM. expe laughing Try it you of this Mi litas; to quadrangle, and then to do the ratio for you will yield he will give you a son of clay at the corners moved by the points transferred through the hole in the opposite wall several squares inferred, that finally in the shape of qiian- let them flow down in a triangular shape of wood, as is clear from the figures. And it is clear from this experiment it is clear why Solperfenefhras entered the polygons of the day in the remoter diftanting in the parallels of the book let the walls form a circle. For since ex with the clay of the sun, I made the points of the pyramids is called, whose baftsfimil becomes a trian hole a gulch, a square, a pentagon, or something else an irregular shape; that of triangles is infinite you will strike the proj edor so that the You were thick, five corners wmmi difpofitis tan let them form that circle: which triangles a more perfect circle will be imitated, how far from the hole they were; so much more imperfectly, the more the same hole I conquered daughter-in-law He will give credit to the experimenter, so be it first, instead of a bright body, you received an orb, thread from several circumferences; pun ctis a perforation in the fubject wall you will lead for from the many figures of the hole Finally, the circle is made hends Corollary Inc is open to almost all of its offerings l. JL phenomena in place: that nor of the Sun, but also of another luminous body. it can be divided; so the Sun eclipsed and the Moon once again they produce eclipsed illumination, and inverfam: Why even fpecies rerilm them for the reason that they appear as foreign, inside exhi let them be blessed; of which all in the fruitful we will discuss For he taught this only ex experiment Aftronomos Solarium eclipse the lion's sizes, the diameters of the Sun, Lu nae the proportions, and the circle through the centers of lu umtraj was threatened with a vertical inclination Lest on this side I lose sight, and on this side I err a matter which is committed to the naked arflimation, to be released from the circle But I can't leave it here smoke, without creating any illusion in this place we discover; and this efl, that zASlinoboliJinus Luris. Many eclipses are much better than this art let things happen in the sky in which they appeared the radius, the whole diameter of the Moon; Fallacy in heaven exhibiting a much greater effect than on the radio. Tycho did not foresee this matter as the diameter of the fifth part of the moon minor eff pronunciaritin conjunction to them, as it appeared in the oppositions although both are equally distant from us. There are also other causes of this diminution, which elsewhere, if God pleases, we will open it. Ve All these things I test myself in the light They will be added to the list. Experiment this remote body is bright angular turned into fphxncum. It spreads as much as possible, so as to remove weeping from the bright body of any one figure, let us see that it is round; thus
inhicappofitofcemate eye A, fuh rays AB, &AC, looks at Venus BC, fpha; ri cam: where; yet the horned perigee eftinftar Monday, as the last of the Lynce Academy became acquainted with the times; thus on the ascending side the moon's horn, wielding a sword, sweeps the horizon, it appears so round, as sometimes new the rising of the flagellum moved the government tis: also the bright swordsman's limb IG indicates a more prominent shade. same fan fd- It must be said about the flame T, which fub py-lac, let us look at the shape of the branches before us, re- moved, we think that it is endowed with a round shape. Stand Stella Mini they are how strong are given This is what happens ftcUaruM jwttiUcttio. cArlk magnx Book II Part Thus the lamps of a conical shape burn in force referring to these three places, in remote places, to use the long walks of fphasrulse bright, and the older ones are made of fur; all of which they are nothing else, but amusements of the eyes; for there is nothing even in the bright ipfis bodies, or in a transparent medium, which He caufarepofTit this effeflu, he can conceive; therefore, in the folly of the eye, they exist. From where to where that is clear; let me cry the moon's horn, or something no matter how luminous the body is don't cover it, you'll wear the same round pieces will remain It is clear from these that the twinkling of the nettles, indeed they are not so great as the common people Aflronomorum thinks, with the surrounding light their diameter will be enlarged; finally nor is there anything certain about the size of the breasts can be defined Experiment IV. Of the jcmtillatione of the fyderum. TD Requenc experiment efl fcintillation of faith, but few of his genuine cause let them reach death: for we all experience Hel las sparkle indeed, fed differently, ma gis fellae fixg fcintillat, less wandering, more near the horizon, less, the elevation of the thing to go, more Arctic than Antarctic; more more rain than the wind; more today than yesterday; the weaker, the less intense the light riches, Saturn minus Jove; Venus apogee &perigaea minus Mercury Whose who let us attach it to the cup of all things, not for the previous convolution of the breasts; no fever lemparoxyfm, as some are ridiculously fond of they rushed; not of the foliar rays, which in We have said to the previous ones that they were unmoved, not from mo the first, and the fertile tion; not the restlessness of the rays from the tears ejaculation; non-living tremor; no powerful? on account of seeing the effect of the snow, he was alarmed tion: we will bring fed nor is there anything else, but only one and a leaf fpesierum from ipfis to be slipped into the eye I was interrupted by the restlessness of the vapours by the intercursion of various affections- For these partimfuo intercurfu except fpeciem re- they make it more clear when broken; ficfolio to more effectively light a certain moment I was transported, they offer, partly different fua in- a tricurfion, which almost suffocated the aflri ray it is true, through the merely transparent intervals free the optical cone travels to the eye in a number of times they lose For turbulent vapors give of the vine, and at random to others, to another, and di with very well configured rays, others indeed they are completely hidden, others are weakened they are infringed: whence it is, that one fyders another part of the thief, another of the orphan, was torn down, in di it may be seen to be twisted; which indeed is restless this agitation of the vapors is most important in tears near the horizon, and in the vaporous Auflri re it is found in the gione fitis. True experiments tate that which is done doctemm fiin cam a free gilt globule of any tower tr pacified by the vapors of the sun you will look at him with the end of the agitation; all where vapors are intercepted by elevated foliar rays rint, fpeciem in every part of the group you will see that the eye is lifted up, and so far to see that the ball is missing in every direction there Therefore, as for the group, this is the same thing they move and push the vapors into the air. Someone that in the spring time the sun is more fervent in the field the fulcrum of the rum was looked upon, the vapors did agitation, and a kind of wonderful air check out the amazing fan experiment laughs and the agitation of the gases originates from another source He does not lead the nymphs, and rarefaction, and continuous alteration copper Profit VI.
The fields of the sun, and of any bright ones nonpemijeentur bodies. E St some wonderful these rays born ra, propriety, that in aclinobolif Miwpy. mo radii radiis nulld ratio permifeean- trktasr tur, nor be broken, nor in diverfaab- eant; fed any straight fibi path fun it is given, of which this cap is an experiment. Experiment Q Int three luminous bodies A, B, C, qu$ light through hole D, into the opposite side Bula E, let them transfuse; indeed, it coincides everything eA Bion obolifmus Lucis. bihnia fimul lights in the mouth of the hole D, so yet, as it is, confirmed by experience let them be by no means perverted, fed lin let them go on their own path and in a straight line, indeed from A into F; from B, and finally from C in H, not fecus, and angelic spirits, while they meet in some common place: wherefore when the luminary A is lit, the light F flashes; when B is covered, it removes the light of G; prohi bito veto C, that which had entered into the light, that any damage to the remaining lights and di- it is extinguished by minuteness. If, instead of D, if the body is opaque: it will be F, um- braluminaris A; &cG, the shadow of the light B; Sc H, the shadow of the body G. Therefore the three lights when in D, they agree, not tumultuously, and at the end of the order they are confused: fed one and let it be fervent with its own integrity he picks up the road, and continues in a straight path; something the confufaper did not transmute the straight lines there therefore, either the radius of the luminous body A, it should be carried in H, or in G. But this is absurd in optics, when the light becomes impenetrable The body of the ray was directly illuminated by something in fact, the snow, along a straight line, as Alazen's fuse book i. Optician with Vitellius he demonstrates: or three rays in a single point C, which is contrary to experience and optics axioms They went on to this experiment to the strongest reasons. And indeed at first with net lines the lights are carried, impofli it is necessary to commit it: for in order to commit there, it is necessary for faith to invade each other; that or it cannot be done unless we deviate from the right path for so many other things were in their place he would remain, and would not hesitate to occupy another's faith; wherefore I did not permifce. Then the rays that a around the luminary parts of the body they profile around, they don't fade fed diftindti and whoever keeps the straight path. I have gathered from previous experiences he can: therefore neither can the lights, as from the rich the lights proceed between fe commifcen- there; fed one and each continues its own way he pushes with every light. Necobftat that in the midst of the same, gather many lights they deny, as some object; For there are more lights in the same place, for example in G, ea by what reason the two Angels penetrate into faith tes, or figut color, and heat, while in the same they reject, they agree. Necobftat go rum, not poffe, as some object, in it let the lights be fastened in the middle, here one, there the other: for this is true in those lights buses, which are not carried by the same medium; but in the light of many there is smoke Confcelari a paraphtatic ex chelis refultmtia. p X is done by what reason one does everything which I will try in the future We have said that it is easier for you to be done here, and di- and what is more, fruitful indeed ctam fpeciem, nodu lolo of candles ufu in obfuscation just there A picture of any kind, either in whatever color I gladly put it on my chest dip the epidla in oil, this being stuck in close the left sides of MONL. I say; and put candles in as many places as you can D, O, before the image through the hole S, which it must be done in the intervening wall between cu lighted and obfuscated biculum, fpecies of the image j which you wish to obtain on the wall or on white paper with objects placed before him they will be repronounced with every outline invert the image of M, N, L, O, you could make a net: I will cast the nets. For when every bit of the image was fpe ciem tranfmittal in the opposite obfcuri cubi- a culpriate next to it; as he proceeded they are rich; and next to the net lines We have shown the rays of light to be diffused: it is done first, as those which are inferior to the image de-
painted, they become more futile in the image's skirt, And on the contrary: fruitful, as a perfect image from can The devils before her were lustily illuminated in uniform three times the fpecies, and with all the shadows I was drawn into the opposite part of the bedroom as is evident in the example given. From this it also follows, by what reason I was once conceived by another in the secret of my mind obfcuroloco degentitu manifeftarepoflit, carry everything wherever he wants on the wall bere folo fpecierum tranfmiflarum fubfidio- The simulacrum will also be seen to be imbued with it f in the color with which the image is painted: yellow, yellow; fi green, green, &fic you will be stripped: for lu-fiflant in mind. matter mixed with someone, him it smokes the color with which the material has been im- M h buta eArtis magna Libet II Lars I then something else. buta, as fuse in the preceding demonstra- it smokes, because of the following experiment ntytrimn. it will become better. Let the glass lamps be transparent, and green, whose oil together with the green ellychnium also im it should be colored; hxc fi has been started, everything Green, and the countenance to be looked upon: fi ni if you trust to see everything, you will accomplish it immediately I use ink from the ashes; for the lamps to motion, if it is ignited, it will cast black from the fire flame Thus Anaxilaus, tefte Phiiophtratus, luffife is carried, while from ftepia ink ad traveling, he returned to the Ethiopians. Moreover, the yellow power you must do everything, be gold pigment, crocus, lu pine barks oieopermifcebis, you are going to put a yellow lamp on a yellow cord of Simeon also reports to Seth that he became a man Thryallidas, that is, the lamps that are lit in the fire with ink, and he has dipped his hand in the fire, man the surrounding nes were partly candles, partly snow see the gros because of the inferiority of the mixed things ri. But Io. Bapt. c! e The gate opened to do, as blowing the heads of horses, or let them be seen, that is more boasting than woe to have the highest quality: but to make it so the room may seem full of grapes, that is true I would like to affirm that he is a blind eyed man. True dehifce, see the fufus treatise in Ma- gia of light and shadow. And the hadenus of direda fpecierum for throwing Reflects, as well as something about earun- let us call it reflexaprojedione. What therefore the manner of the bodies of the police was fuperfi- cies from each of the points of light, co lores, forms fiuas direct ray in oppofi- to put it in a dark place, as it has been said, de- they will create: make the light together with the color on the wall received. the return of productive lines I refled the poteffin through i. the form of this light a corporeluminofo femper fertile line it is spread over every body that opposes it made, and having a like colored form a little bit of light When, therefore, this they fall, or to another third body, because The opacity of the body is reduced by the luminaries, and of color, a distorted reflection, which is instead blown by a fruitful experiment. by radio matter bending Experiment How jjjcciss things inside the house some re-examination. TREfcend inside some house by fo- Solis, and is placed in opposition to the ipfum put the glass, and again against the glass there is a hollow vessel in the manner of a Scyph a white river, which is so adapted as to reflect light sxpsrimtn- fuper that white body falls: it will appear of the body, into which the light is first shed. Color, therefore, mixed with light, is reflected, therefore, the heart is also mixed with light the polished pore, which has been made of resin, hard the color is completely reflected by the light, so as to color the polished body. If the body It has been polished rare dduciduadu, to use a lunt water, glass, daughters; then they will be refreshed by if colors and lights penetrate it: that It is clear from this that the path of reflection from these bodies are of weaker light and color than from other denser bodies. dljam, that we may teach, by what reason? which seem to be inverted in an obscure place, render: that it may be done in two ways, by the transformation of external things, indeed their condition requires it: or lenticular glass a large or small fubfldio: that is extremely difficult I was able to do so; this is the way in which it is done. On the side of the hole of the fpeculus I stand
given, not that he is rich in difgregauda I did that by collecting, uniting, yielding, removing and advertise, as far as each one is concerned, turn the image the amount due to the approach of the center and be considered more attentively, vefles the colors of the man, his countenance, his gestures, his movements oh man, the sky is full of clouds, blue even more, and flying birds, and what a wonder if they were close to the center of the fpeculi, face the threats; fi spring o outside the center elonga you will grow, you will grow up, you will be the heir, you will be useful. But about hifce fufius in Magica noflra Catoptrica, Corollary IDAtet hence Philophophis, Medicis, quo in instead, let it be in the eyes of the living: it is entered into for the idol is blown through the pupil of the witch, vi and he obtains the little fpeculi of the great the portion of the eye that is dislocated. Corollary Note that all reflection weakens the light. colors, universally all forms: for, when the light is continuous, it is stronger it becomes fragmented by light, by i. Petition; when let us see the light so much weaker how far from the rising of the sun was he; it is clear light fertile weight of any body ris with light to polish the body The small fire will proceed in the form of a pyramid tem, so much greater, since because of the light from. I was the source of the elongation, and also because of the dif gregation, to have weakness, quan to be more removed from that weight. The light but it was reflected by the greater part, then on account of it, which it has from a place of reflection nis, removal; and because of the fragmentation nem, and finally reflection. Colo But the thing, when it is fint flm go of light, in what manner more distant rowing light, fire fire, fire fire they have been reflected, slipped, and pent up the weaker and more inflexible, that they may go before to you fashion e-species give back let them gather in various ways. lAUmobollfmm "Light. with the experiments of the flutes, the danger of the making of the wood it will appear slowly, and from fruitful experience to crush Experiment III. Ve light reflected weakness. OI ih iadio incident ipfius fpeculi eor- pndirlaT piis some colored transparent po- debtiims nature, through which the ray passing in {icfdit Let him fall, you will discover the light in the fpeculum incident, and from this to the white wall bending light, this one much weaker than that. And in the same way the reflected color is weaker lore, from which reflection is made. So everything is clear reflection, lights, weaken the colors; fed colors more than lights; because he they fall in a different way than lights; whence they are also more easily weakened by reflection. For the color is weak, when it comes to fpeculum when he comes, the color of the fpeculi is mifted, because the mixture of that is changed as well, and it is disgusting; and therefore the reflected color appears weak, fubobfcurus, dark; come on diftantia reflexa diftantia reflexa: a reflection is broken from a place nis, which weakens all its growth theme It is clear, therefore, that it is prophesied. corollary Atet, that the light, and the color of the reflection more bilious in light and color first; the stronger but of the fruitful, with whom from the same death spread evenly. Pollet hieforfan quifpia to object, weakens the forms in the reflection do not effle them by extension; fed this foolishness out of the fruitfulness it will be clear by trial: for the light is directed and let them remove the reflections equally from the rising sun tur, the reflection will nevertheless be detected weaker Experiment V It weakens the reflected light "f The sun's ray falls into the darkened room through the hole; but a small hole steel (which, however, is made through a hole in mi nus) is opposed; so as to open the hole let the light fall upon the earth, which is very clean, papy rum the light reflected from the glass into another body the album was raised and reflected, covered yet the same when the body is elevated, as well as in. terca jacenris diftantia from the hole. these fas- your reflexes tls detect the light m elevated body Weakness fuperficie repercuflam much weaker. A white heart appears lying on the ground pores But of this minority no reason can be afflicted, the reflection of the snow-leaves: for as I said in the proceeding Corollary eft, light dlrefta eoiori fpeculi
tur, from the first fua perfedtione defieiis t qua hence, imbued with disgust, he is brought to that i but if some fpeculum can be given ejuf- dem With clear light, reflexalux, utpo- I will cover you with the end of the color miftiorie, ejufdem ra the future will no doubt be with the light of the direction ft. Thus it will also be said of reflected light, and fertile Also about true colors in- for the purposeful, fecundative, bending, falling into the same body from the origin fua diftantia: outside the place of reflection of the pole then, this light would make much more fruitful you catch a weaker reflected light: that reason it is that of those who proceeded: therefore that is clear which was prophesied from the beginning; Experiment VI Woe to the Sun. The bright body of the Sun AB, through the aperture na C, D, E, in a dark receptacle sends out three cones of radiation CKL, DNM, EOP, equal power due to equal lias holes C, D, E. I say in common con- the light of the curfu cones is noticeably increased; Hence the fragment QQL, for all three common, is jucidifljmum, fplenddre fefquialter to the QRMO fragment, to since they intensify this from only two rays? joins, but the second of the three: the triple lake true attachment to which is fub- double the MOQR. from whence I deduce, a fegmen then to have femer fe to the rays of the fimplices fplendor, as fe has a cone number rum, of which there is a common branch, to unity M z Ex- Wonderful for portion of mine of light
VE experiment T)e Fire. A hollow cylinder, in whose con- vexa fuperficie fint triaforaminaA, B, C, from the side of which three torches I will unite the censers which I have passed through the light with the interior of the ED, let them collude, eritqueluc E D, three times the light than the cone ra- aArtis magna Book II lars
Conis of equal intensity He will have faith in the light of all any one of them, as the number of all of the cones to unity. If it is common the stoop is pierced, and it gradually departs from the faith let the cones of rum fall, and let the light shine on each one was brought to the opposite wall MN, it will be queMOP, lunula attachment PO, QR, on either side a double convexity; and each of these to the common not to all the fegmentum P R three times Corollary Trimum. From which the image of the market is clearly evident nes not virtual, fed formal elfe. Yes for they bring about the virtual union of the poles into the les. they would spread fear in every part equally. Second Corollary O Atet, therefore, from this, having made an object, thus cones radiofos divisible eff, with diophidia, IBK, EKC, each of which has by faith: for figuti fe has to i. so light DIE, ex composed of three radial cones, to the cone KE G, or DIA, figuti to so the light LKE, or DLI to DIA, or EKC, fimplex cone a block Again as to so light DLE, attachments to DLI, or ELK. but the former ratio one is triple, the second double, the third fefquialte- ra: therefore the light is concentrated near the multitude a torch, a potion, which is equal to a ha of clay let them be free from holes; and polite ray to any from any, figuti cone from co no reipla is different. I will not conceive, however I can easily convert the part of the propofition, fic as fspecies, thus object divisible effe: for that which is objected to in the confusion of all radiorumalicjus coni, not fpeciem, fed we will bring the top of the fpecies. They are neither are the living species as great as biles, as they are, when in one point con they flow, which is the vertex of the cone. That fiquifpiam in a point bent over fpecies effe If he were more obstinate, we will answer him there indeed, but not so that you are fit to live in truth, let nothing be moved with the cumfupunft; man therefore the power of fua lies safely there, like a tree in the woman, who through finally in the act is drawn. Since that point to the fparfos rays, to fe collected fe ha beat, as the center in a circle to the rays; when which melts all those rays; will not actually divisible only by force, and it will not be in fact, you were fed in the rays divisible: or He will also divide it by degree, not by quantity I divided you. How much further from this kind of ex They will reflect the wonders of the experience, it will be clear in Magalucis, and shadows, where the essence of these ex let us describe the experiences more broadly. whether jfe-
cies fint di- viable CHAPTER V CDe fet radiation of color. THESE colors are illustrious in shape; find them everywhere skin and colors to radiate into the world, not fe- cus and ipfa light, etc a little weaker; heart pore too the lights, colors, and shapes of things the fertile lines of uprightness try to bring them to a safe place He made it almost vulgar. True, as propofi- This will be explained in a few words: Note first, the double effect of this fafta for Aoilnobohfmus Lucis. part of the propofition. The first to trust me the light of the light, and of them: of the flexion of the forms near the fuas lines. Ad the first thing that concerns: Note fruitfulness, her the elf nature of the light; as any co it reached the internet, it was just dyed, not already pure, fed emotion through the medium of diapha- Is it spread far and wide with difficulty? for with every body, which is even one's own it shines with a luster, or that it is in some color it is dull, it is not opaque, as learned demonftrattirab Aquilonio lib. i. optician prop. nor any of the Sublunar ex- tet perfectly transparent; nor any aitvSn adiaphanous, dark fire, which is not light, or it becomes conspicuous in color, bright, colorful that with a kind of opaque reciprocity not done; it is done that the color of the light is permeated, or some affection of his, from it therefore the future is diffused by many rising lights rents: for the snows each light co lore becomes something affected, nothing fuperefl, which one is separated from the other by the light quality becomes, more than nothing in things ctabiie is done: therefore it is necephalary, that pro- to prefer, to demonstrate, to color natively ris color with light in one piece cwplane- to coalesce one affect; from which I will make the lights of taro by concretion, and by moderation for divejftcolo- coiorumdiverfitate, diverfa quoquelumi- difference is procreated: from here the light of the Sun au rea, the Moon: silver, Mars ruddy, purple flames, lighted candles covered with green snow. Nor does it blow that lib. of Colorib. chap. i. Ariftot he said. Light is the color of fire, for there is no other Three times the color of fire is found, and because of the fool vivifibilis exiftit, when foreign vivibilis hu let them escape the law with favor; to no one else smoky to bear, received, nifi light For these things return from Ariflotele there, when neither the color of the fire nor the end of the light, nor I wanted to see the light affected by the color of the snow. of Marfilius Ficinus in lib. i. Ennead Piotini all the variety of We see with different lights, in matter it replaces rarity density. We know (say in the quoted place) the purer the light, the brighter it is brighter, on the contrary, it is red in craft material fa, pale in the middle, fed in tenuiffimanitet. and he also accommodated this to the rear of the cells he moderated, which accordingly said the same about the caufa to shine variously, with which the color of the rose gathered together it is indeed red, but diffused is pale, diffused it shines brightly. The truth of the matter jor, minor or diduftio, hobfolumprsftare it may be that the color becomes lighter, but not, as It changes the pitch; therefore it will never happen, as the color of the rose is blue, however the matter is brought out, or confined. Whence therefore the ears of certain things of flame, some red, others purple, others the rum is blue, and others are green? Sa- not from the inflammable color of the proper material, which shines and shines together with the light Light, therefore, which first infuses the body with light therefore, it is imbued with the same color; what words it emanates from a bright body, but is much weaker it becomes, tenuiorifque elfentiae, ipfum yet co the world, which he received from the source, is a permanent thing holds, nothing, that here also is attenuated, and in the same degree, as the light makes a little tongue, even more, the farther from the origin goes away; 8c fane nifi thus affect the color of the light let us say, no probable reason will emerge, by which light is distinguished from light let us stumble at the same time, when, however, it is sure to merge; one white, another yellow, another red while, or another color of affection Use them
then by the light which falls from the body a smooth body; so by the color of lu threats, the proper color of the bright body through his own image is forged. In addition not from the proper material of the soil, whence it flows, the light lends more; fed too from those bodies into which it impinges: from which for however repulsive it may be, its color it is dirty: make it so that the color is divided in the middle transparent with the light and let the light pass through it; function that these colors are much thinner in the air, than the colors of the ipfi, and not less diffe you have runt, how much light do you reflect? xo, this is the first time from the fruitful one. It is true the right of the world betadferibere, from which also lpecfatornon he will take moderate pleasure. Experiment ON THE REPRESENTATION OF THINGS This is a simple experiment, but I am here for the confirmation of the rich and we will explain it in an hour. Onclave, feu Chamber, which is so close it, except for a small hole with which fenfetra is covered, none at all admit the light; hole in the glass lens to be adapted to the house, which is a little in the middle a convex protuberance, such as are common diopters, which are made to increase things; Qnalia, likewise, glasses, with which the fire is often excited M radio published the great Libeir II. Tarsus t. transfer of solar rays. So it is with them properly prepared, white paper inside the glass let it be objected, that diftanry, by which the solar rays were born they are for you to join together in one place. For here wherever they are abroad, in their proper colors, as it were fat will be made on paper not end ffedus allure and mind with obledation, nothing that will detract from the reality of the image la size fatness For here from the necessi- the father will be inverted, but she will be smaller than him, by which the object was further removed from the glass. He would be seduced I will ask here, who are the colors ifti, and why not they are thrust out at the end of the light of perfidy, and why in short, I do not represent the snow in the dark cut colors tur For the first time, I repeat, these colors "threat well" do not eff others, but them, because they are true faithful fm of God together with the light not through the transparent medium are given they are brought forth: for these glasses are filled with teeth refracted, as if through a narrow hole in they tear up the paper object, in which the rice they appear from the conipicus, which at other times are in the middle they could by no means be perfected colors in- pter thinness; for these are co- temwndes- Jores so much intentional, noh corporeal, absolutely the same natures with those who are colored bus with light on neighboring walls they are refreshed But these colors are not true how diffused by a line of light it is dark, because the light is as if it were colored mind and soul they hide you; but when she went up, to while they are brought out with food, and as it were animated by the living things from which they emanated represent images. Why do I go on? they are represented by darkness, because the light with which, like hypophthalms, they smell, it is to be used thinly, so that it is easy to use a larger light it is bound, with which the color of the tensions alike disappear; for it is not her that force is in the colors, as in the sun; indeed, this light pours forth from faith, so as also fruitful, and the third, and the fourth it becomes effective for killing the aphedus; but coloresadeo are imbeciles, as the first in the tension is this: it, as soon as I open the co lore is cut off, it is overshadowed by the least light, and let no other light be suffered greater than that, that the repulfu from the bodies to ape it while they send noftre: for Uri has faith fruitful light, fire ray reflected inob- I rise at the first light of the burning sun so, the colors of the fertile, feu intention nals to the neighbors, and verofque colors, from whom they flowed out: for it is the color of which Si I have a certain light, and there is light in all things let him have mercy, notwithstanding his treachery he never wears it; and hence it is that never, only by the snow-fertile light; and that in obfcurocommixed species repr- to be able to fantasize, to use it for a while. Why, finally let fpecies be seen inverfie, oft be brought forth infe the river Corollary Trimum.
Of the initials, Jive tepraferitation of things. Tj' of the preceding is gathered, by what artifice they are in any dark place playfully reprefen tations, such as hunting, contests, also apparitions of terrible forms that they may be demonstrated I can barely remember myself by the method of Christ's Lord we were crucified xion in obfucuro instead of being somewhat reprecented do vidiffe. Hac method Ru- dolphol to the emperor from in- of the Mathematician, allRudoipb Predecessors of the Roman Empire you will go from Julio Ctefate to Mau- rite of passage predentatoS effe, so to force as many as come forth they were, that was by magic art, or necromantic swearing thought to be done, by a great no- menis to this fpedaculo man I received the p. Yes, the people really useless the victims Aquilonio tefte They would like to be surrounded by those who Fe Necromantic conju experts in accounting and let them kill the devils stones brought back from the underworld culisfpedantiumpofTe fifte- re; For you have introduced of curious things in ob- it will happen AcBnobohfmus of Luris. a room with a furnace, and a faint signal and falsehoods of things, and falsehoods of words, and so by the expulsion of Ipfa, Dasmon soon to be found, in which form of defense rint, denounce In the meantime, a little bit about him rum fodalibum one dasmonisperfonam in he is usually painted with a hideous face do, &monftruofo, horns from the forehead Tur nations, a wolf's skin, or a tail, sleeves, and hoofed shoes; then he meditates outside the bundle walks in the place from which it was color, figu aper glass orb in con the key can be transfused Things are so clever when compared, it is indicated that the fever Qnafi is about to come out of the machine God Here others turn pale, others are afraid of the matter will happen A paper table is presented, which Faced with light, I soon fell to the ground they are afraid to see the face of the fire they are looked at, they are contemplated. So rude to them men, says the quoted Author, as a shadow let them see the hiftrio, they lose their attention, a wedge, without any progress in teaching those who believe that the wood is all foreign. Lucr. Satyr. book Live, fkefiehomines.
Second Corollary It is clear from these that whatever altinobolifmo diHa are about the radiation of colors too genda: for these skins radiate in a profusion of light they are cast into a dark place so and fspecies of colors, so that evenfi om the color of the species is generally punished let them flock together, but never there they are confused; fed any point fu- radiating perfection at the end of the dark wall ullamiftura, ant fpecierum confufioneiu Punishment stoopfus talla i straight tramftepro is paid Third corollary. T. T. Inc. is also open to any transparency is full of the infinite richness of things bright and colorful, but at the end of faith with any penetration. From here he goes rivers, houses, dungeons, people, and species of animals radiating into the world He produced an infinite multitude of species cunt, which, however, that fool will be able to see laughs, who enters them slyly he concluded let it be for example, a cross I will give, as in the preceding figure appears, whose lpecies per the medium radiates through the hole be received within the shelter, completely pyramidal radiation fua figure through the air was shaped to fo ramen Q then inverfapy I will invert the branch of the former fig Radiant crucifix to show the wall: I say di- the infinite piece of the cross ties inside the pyramid CB, be multiplied, so that so many fpe cies of cross within C, B, or CA, they conceived, quot the so-called pyramids they admit: fcd those eff pof- funtinfinira: therefore fpecies infinite crosses (fourth oratory. Tp Atet from here, the whole air is full of in- after the end of various things, Solis, Lu nas, fyderum, and all manner of rerumfub afpefoim cadeniumfpcciebus, who nevertheless so that each one may be fpe at the end of the commillion with the other through me for a long time, he crossed over to any suitable place bear What a wonderful nature of light fspecierum than the property, which is higher pe
He did not have much to do with nature cana, fed, and many other things about metaphysics the hidden principles of faith have been penetrated he knows rum. The truth about hifcc more in The magic of light and shadow C Meditate femper ple whether he numbers you were killing Artis Mdgte Uber llt I. CHAPTER VI T)e zABinobolifmo five radiations of the phone, each compared to light IXIM U S in progress everything is the nature of light to be affected by radiation; force fo igirur A&inobolifmo object of light and color that is to say alive; now where listen to the radiation of the object let's see if you can perceive the operations of the fuas. For it is certain: it is a daily experience teaching, the rope of virtue, enter soHMhni- what leaf it is perceived, to make, outside but the light was not there, but it was not: he cannot, mfi by straight lines afubje&o I sound through the middle as if from the center of a wave that you distrust, let it be confounded: radiation therefore The luminous flux of ions was approximately ce rnulatur, nor any other difference it is, of course, that It is propagated by vigorous movement. At least the same thing can be said in a certain way men, and the rope, ipfe Yirgilius is seen in while he says Then a brighter fire is heard. As &lib. Vifcz dogs bark through the shade. Indeed, nothing can meet the eyes; for the same reason he was afraid to whisper in his ears it doesn't work. Just like the property of light is to reproduce different body colors turaiteU' rum juxta different rays now inci- txmiZTd of the teeth, now reflexor direftioncs in Jonttm. the falsehoods, afterwards made for the eyes; so fo it is proper for us to repronounce them differently the qualities of these bodies are moved by the help of the air rum fuperficies impinging and ferientifque; so that it is not incongruous that we can say color the matter is nothing but a different im- the sea, and the reflection of the rays in me god just as the phons are nothing else, how different are the motions of the air: let me become while the fubtilifiimas motions of the air reshapes some moldy intrument, he would see; surely it is nothing but a piftu ram some impressive variety of colors to he would see a shadow, which his eyes would turn away in dismay the qualities of the sounding bodies, as differ it is, they would whisper. Prseterea, to use light through faith the trust is unlivable thus the rope: ne- for in this world I was nothing you will finish the colored ones by repeating the amount they fill the Sun, and the rest of the bodies of light xtJtum ac- fa, fpectare poflumus: but the light invifi- fetfibUe kde acis fuPerlue stumble fpecula hollow, which none of the rays Veftigiuifi they leave, the snow at the point of bending the beam rum used with an opaque reflecting body; nay, to speak more eloquently, I say no ac falling through fe fenfibile effe, nifi through bodies, by whom it shall be fuftined, five by quantity, qutcipfis gives the extenfion, the line which in pun- hard, nothing would go away. So use the light on it is alive, so also the rope, which as long as the air He renders it to us more lenient than many hearts the qualities of the pores, which the snow with the help of the leaves We did not know, it is manifest: and be who a little more deeply into the nature of light rit, he will find that nothing else I will give a movement like the air, which I imagine to be dung the first mover of the body let the luminophore shine on her eyes by name, and the appearance of color or light. Thus the rope is nothing but the same copper movement, which carries the feces in different parts fuse the qualities, that is to say, of the bodies he mo of the winds: whence here we have an image of fub no mine, and the appearance of the phone objects: for the form fenfiable, for example the bell of any fo- swimming, fub the same profus: God whispers to someone's heart, which is the same in his ears it happened to anyone. Pororficutilumen fi so that the light of the body, from which it flows, should not flow out of the body. it cannot be fastened, so the rope moves at the end you will be (There are therefore as many strings to laugh at. the cord of the channel included for a long time con- bm fervaripoffe they think, utfufius will be said in Ma- w gia noftra Catoptrica; yes, I give experience let us be better, and with greater pleasure af fici, during a certain hiftoria, five defcrE
We read the living option of any thing; or from an impressive speaker with a variety of words, and the figures are like the colors of any owl we hear an outline of what we can see fpiceremus. As in the case of other objects rum fpecies hidden by a certain reason affi the eye and the optic nerve ad pro to be guided by the help of the spirits of the likeness of the image even so the image of the body of the son the vet affects the implanted ear canal and the nerves of the auricle are connected to the image body to be repaired. Of which, ni I am mistaken, he is clearly offended, a huge optician I listen to what bodies are doing, and producing in men both life, hearing, ftmilitude, Finally, it is fixed in the middle of the denfiori refrin- gitUr lively, so the rope Uti poftea fuse often is given AStinobolifmus Soni.
is given For what else is a rope in the heart? the pore is very porous, and the soft retreat: snow the shadow of some kind of barrier, so that it does not go any further stretched out, objecting? I finished the arum Then a certain method is performed the same cord of the body was made out of the water it becomes heavier, and consequently, as much as the air by which it becomes rarer. For the experience from the impressive A mathematician discovered not so long ago How much is) the sound of a bell of two ages how much, for example, outside the water, inside the water with the same five degrees of heat, and finished extra one harmonic minor tenth cowardly; of which there is no other cause be the rarity, and the narrowness of the different means. Water for Thunder of the fspecie's body within which is more refreshed than outside the water; from which slowness of the medium's movement the slower the rope is made, the heavier it is; become for the skin has a middle to the middle; thus vibrations made in one medium to vibrate do not be jealous of the other; made vibrations to vibrations, so rope to rope. If you go there, as it was in the previous example, as to z. the motion of air to the motion of water, in they will have the same faith in proportion: whence the air the rarity of the waters of the denfinity will have, as ixy. to Verum dehifce confuleMufi- cam noftram curiofam, ubi de hifce, Sc fimi- let us deliver the books from the profilo. So, therefore, with these trust now to the further foni let's move forward Sound, then, is nothing but quality. gnidjit jo-tas fenfiable, which can be perceived by hearing, ne which is movement, as some think, of the body Rum and Fe colliding: it is finished, however the movement of bodies colliding with the rope, not even immediately, fed by means of fra cation of the intermediate air; whence the bodies, which they had more brass, and Levoris, the largest the body gains the power of toning, because the air is more in It is broken by foiido-Ijevi and airy bodies. I will feme terefi cluam not airy Also by the rope there are two crypts the colliding bodies of leaves; fed air, producing mainly water impulses fit, as the thundering sea they will educate each other; therefore from col- the air of the body of any body, fo nut, that, because the weight of the collifio is not fecal, and the fpecies of colors radiating into the fphjera dif it is poured out: for the colors of the fpecies are fluctuating, Ceu buys proxies of the object by radiation they are on every side, and so the rope is fpeciem. .sjqXit fuh- Moreover mecliumfofli, quo his fpecies to au- jettnmfoni are brought forth, they are not fubjed fo- ours; fed air and water; And of the air indeed there is no doubt about the water experience rnm yum. No He also informs us: Pliny said that the follies were gathered together with a certain sound It matters that Pifces is also called by the name of thin Plinius reports the same thing; whom they greatly fear thunders; if that did not happen, they would hear the sound of snow in the waters. the liners, too, are more violent than the water let them perceive the sound, and do so much lius, the less he was away from the fupcrficia of the water rint: that which is manifested is a kindred, a rope through the air, with the bodies of all kinds water, wood, and walls are heard for power to penetrate Water, then, is the medium of a similar sound it is much more liquid, and easier to enrich the sound of the ray they are conveyed by air rather than by water; he reflected
for the ray of light has a medium in it denfius, in which it is broken and dulled, thus the lightning ray in the midst of which which is broken. Therefore they are dumbfounded dunturquefonoraefpecies aqua craflitudinc, Cw! )i so that living species may grow in the midst of the denfior. Hence the carpets which we hear defecated by him the voice of the peripetafma frati is dull, taken away which is more difficult to perceive than when they are naked there are tapestries on the wall it is said, why in a place full of men, the mufuca it languishes, because it is taken away from within the human body the hollow edge of the body loses its strength. So the hall fans or strewn with straw, so blunt the rope as to be scarce be perceived Of which more in fequen- to you Whom The truth in this place is reflected in explaining the reason The loan is propagated through the medium, whether it is paid by real efle, anperefleintentionale, five perefetea. species? At least he propagated through fspecies ra- it seems more congenial to the tion, when in for all things he does with living things: fed fpe living things, there is no other way of life than nature they are small, so that the object is material tendency: otherwise disproportionate, perfeipfas as if through the vicar of the object, Therefore in the same way the fount transfers the obj ect fo- to our auditory power through the in- tetionalefeufpecies substitutes for the object. And I have no doubt of some ufq; fon also really fruitful and phy fice for to be paid, with the money from the continuous agitation of the alris do not smoke the greatest strength, so that you can end it neither real nor intentional fecundity can be propagated as far as possible. Nor any reason can be given, who convinces of this kind to really spread the sound of the whole world in every direction when it comes to their perception let him send the fpecies from them to the fen- fuum factories, nefruftrafiat, Philofopho thee fte, by more, what can be done by fewer. But the arguments against; Let the light be fruitful real fe diffuses into the medium, therefore the cord. Don't tell me the same thing in all of Joni's It is evident from the light of reason, N dwarves Artis Magna Liber ia an F. for the difficulty of the light is at first infantile, foni fuccefiiva; 4ein. de radii luminolieflentiali- they depend three times on that from which they are deepened with a luminous body: not itcmphone; can ederim nim fo ni fpecies itidependenterab objedo lmo flows, through the air, to be propagated, as in "it is clear in which the reflected image of the voice he can bind, not exiftenre fubjccto, with water drew the origin The same cannot be said about Ipeciebus is alive, as if it were a neighbor they are magisimmatedaJ. es, than fpecies fo rni, they also differ in radiation; for jScuti wave pushes wave, &proedus in pi- The pebbles form infinite circles out of proportion national waves of trufionecaufamr; so so can be driven through the infinite proportions of air It is propagated in circles: for at rede Vi truvius: The voice of the circles is moved, says he with infinite bends: use blowing water to im- mifld are born innumerable waves the circles growing from the center, and as wide as possible wandering about, the snow of the place interpolates guffaws; but the difference is that it is waterless the circles from which plane are moved in width, the voice also progresses in length, and He graduated in height, If we were rismotum, which obj edum fonorumeffi cit, we can look, he is about to form lutify Aetna some of the dearest in the worlds of ma femper jores majors bulging. But. by the way! What do you do now? fit5&how to make a video& CHAPTER VII. Phonocamptka s jhe Schobgia, Definitions. I. (Ah, there is nothing else than reflection of the voice: which they commonly call Eclto; whence Ar cem Plionocamptica flveEchologia it we call the faculty, which is manifold He will teach the reasons for the conflict. Of what art in this chapter for the character of noftri modulo ad to give life to the light II. The line is the string through which the voice goes. returns III. A straight line is that line which the same way he went he returns to the ropes. The line is oblique, which forgets which shines in the opposite direction. We call the middle Piionocampticum
air or water, through which they are propagated fo ni fpecies Obj edum Piionocampticum dicit that mouse, on which the voice was impinging is created VII. The line of action is called the cota fonora the length of the line, within which he perceived the rope it's cool. VIII. We call the plionoclaflic body II- lud, within which the rope is broken. Therefore, the light ds into the body of Iseve Pole tumincidentisfpecies vi- he is faithful in a little way at the corner where you were be given, reverberate to po-. live tense; So nora fpecies fub at the same angle, fub where fo-. .suddenly, I rediscovered the power of hearing he trembles: because of that wonderful voice in the harsher ct g. corpora iilapfa repercuflione, than Echo Ch. they call, it is clear: so much indeed, that Echo ni hil something else went, nifi voice articulate, autmoduk- the reflected rope, the movement of the air radiating smoke, I object directly to the plane of the body, which I hollow, and meeting with fate smoothed, thence the ball inftar to the strings, and the voice returns. But I will return a line, fruitful as a voice it is propagated in a straight line, we say fo nora painted it, which is propagated by light, light nofam: fruitful for this line In ae in an open and free matter, make any difference not dung and light are poured, nature femper the summation, which is done by redifliming lines, roaring I said, sadly, free, and open-, fi- indeed, the voice was repelling a bftacle near it fe propagates: as fi the building was hollow and to be circular, according to this fact also carried by a circular flow, as in it is done with arches and arches it will be opened, where the stems of the ungulates will be entangled mouse As i further in the radiation of light winged ra one day reduced, another oblique is given, thus' in the phone rum also by propagation, whose angles In in the fall, just as in the light such as the angles of reflection, as in Art We demonstrate Anacamptica. True clay let us arrange everything with a few prophecies. Profit f. The voice radiating into the world, where the body jive found a hard reflective body, quafl Mammo met with a terrified reflex the world Let A be the radiating voice, to which the fpecies are conveyed in objeda feufaxofa places BSC}E, D, I, nor wrongly, I say the reflexive voice in pundis B, , E, no, I thought, E, I would recur in A, pun- while by the lines IA, B A, C A, EA, DA. Which for niam from the mortgagee voxin dida punda leaf AcUnobolifnms Sonis. leafy bodies incident reflected to straight angles; but the straight line the smoke is reflected, cer then there is all the rays phonorosin A, later, or rather, next to pro expand the portion corporisfonori, &cor- refle the voice of the pore ctentis fivePhoncam- optical reverberation to go Corollary. 'C' to whom it is clear, and clearly conflates why a voice from the trumpeters blowing in the mountains indeed, the valley would reverberate towards us: because I saw it cet radiophonorus to the rock C, normal re turned into A. Why in the sources also in in the deeper wells of the Echo from which that it may be perceived, it causes, that the word A, in fuperilcie aqux D, reflected from where it proceeded rat, let him row. It is also clear why Echo in an the throats of the precipitous valleys shall not be returned, because the voice radiating from F, in G, on the other side, is really a thief is struck in A. If someone therefore in the opposite instead of A, he would exifle, without doubt the voice of the subject he would perceive a bend. 'c Propofitio I F. , A voice falling obliquely into the wall reverberated Let the wall A, the voice B, fall upon him obliquely at point C, and from there reverberate it will be in D, for when the angle BCE falls das is equal to the angle FCD, of reflection, in jlICI C, therefore, the illxfa voice will return to D. therefore be there let the ear collide, the voice from B, radiating in D, he will perceive: but the voice will not return in D, fed in S, perimpoflibile: since they then the angle FCS contains the angle FCD, it will certainly be greater than that; therefore, at a greater angle to cut the ECB, which the shark at an angle ECD, we are fools of reflection. Will it then be throat incidence: equal to the angle of reflection, and it will not be: a voice will also be heard in S, and it will not be heard; not therefore it will reverberate in S, fed in D, fub in the same way throat, the fub which had flowed out of B, which was to demonstrate ConjeBariwn. Atet from this, a voice radiating obliquely I did not reflect on the radiant, faintly orphaned one
diverted; Because in the same way fe has a rope oblique to the reflex fuasfpecies, figuti ob throw a living adfpecies from the fpeculis obliquely infpe&o reflected; The silver ones are not seen, the snow at the corner, at the corner where they fell, that is to say obliquely: therefore the rope. So the sound from B in C, the reflection will be heard in D. From this it is clear, for what reason does someone like the rope so loudly as to where it comes from, no reason to know there D from which fallacies Profit F. At this interval the reflection was polyfilla he hates Um fonorx lines do not fint Mathemati- provided, it could not be done, so as to exafte the diflation of the monofilament reflection is terminated base Blancanus puts this in the fuaEchometria deflation the feet; I'm never36 or even I found the same intenfidne of the voice bo to the first phonocamptic body; I found for the harder the phonological body fpecies: figuti ball flat duriffimo illifa. Himself cundo in the middle, whatfubindecraflius, fubin it is of a finer nature, which slows everything down a great deal the voice of the voice; whence also different Echo gains times different powers. N z For J The Great Book of Art I Part For the air is impure with mist, and variously moved when the bus is driven, it rests more weakly than it does ro, exhausted and at rest, whence she was very tender Irish times are better, as the nights are generally used the days of rest during the daytime phonocampfi they are more suitable; but with careful observance paflus from the phonocamptic object; below for hardly anything from the first verse what you perceive is different; from What happens to is often rendered as the first syllable of the word. NenaBion But we say that the greatest difference is so great Efle, how much is half a line of addition: vo and the camus the line of the road, within which the cord is perceptible, whatever the line B V. I say the line C S, elfe the greatest di ftantiam, within which the cord from C, reflected He wanted to be heard; and this difference is equal to BC, half B V. The reason is, because the rope is from the pound C, in V, fme continued with such a reflection is propagated with intensity, as when the ass in C, found in S, will be restored, because the voice nothing changes in intensity due to reflection lpeciei: for fi C, the hole blows, the voice is the same profuse moment, and you will listen to the same lily there in different places V, S. Determined igi It is certain that there is the smallest and the greatest diftantia including the whole Echo polyphyllabain com the majority For it should be the greatest difference to the sound from objedo phonocamptico pafluum, mini but it becomes zq a little, experience has taught monophyllabam Echo diftantia tryphylla- bam tetraphyllabam let the water flow to be returned, and at last to go away into nothingness: which indeed they are to be understood, when between the body of the ropes is me the length of the access line. For he can do other things to dip, so that the reflected line of the voice becomes longer, what kind of line do you make, when nan is closer to the wall to someone, and the voice is intense it is done, for then he rebukes the one who is calling back a voice is heard, concerning which we give hafce rules. Or for the Anacamptic body half be the line of addition, and then the line direda, and the reflections are equal: or the red line the smaller is half the line of the addition, and the larger fic it will be the line of reflection: or, in short, the line of reality da will be greater and a half, and fic reflected will be smaller it will be {ivctwofyoiMct, that is, he was a curfew of the voice reduced, five oblique You see, then, that as the line of light is given, femper reed reflected dung smoke equal lis, thus in the linen: so that hence the nature of the or it is easy to know from the nature of light we are From these it is clear, by what reason, who Echo po- He is able to conftrure the lyphona: fi videcidete i, odocenp. is protected fertile given the proportion of the population The different bodies of fatmuiporixa are spread out: thus Rome to the Hippodrome Echo you hate bam repeats; I remember the same at the walls the voice of the city will come from the fuftentacles of the walls, which some call Wings, pro- I hate to be partially reflected: the figure here we rested. The truth about the Echo device yes, see the magic of light and shadow. Experiments "various about the reflexes of the voice na tnram3 amazing operations
who stumbles upon oblong wooden beams, even if they were feet in length, it will be possible with another at the other end of the beam conftitutofubmiflavoque any one; will to communicate, not to crowd around the noise of the trumpets, and the tumult: be speaking with force the mouth is sweet for this, but for that you beam from the outside mum the other applied the ears: for through the heart airy pus of the wood, and vocal fpecies of porofum they are conveyed so clearly, and the ears of the neighbors they would burn The same experiment was done with the arches of the bridges, applied to the mouth, and the ear in places For this reason he quits secretly with the other He was able to speak. nASUnobolifmus Soni. diametrically opposed places. On the screws also applied to fcaiaribus ear bafi co light screws, and a mouth at the far end: for he was talking with some friend who was far away that he wills, even Fubmiflavoc, and so much indeed, the easier it is, the more the wood is porous flowers, and lighter, indeed, arches, arches, and pus snail cleaners. I tried to smoke that in the cupola of St. Peter, in whose crown two diametrically oppofki ioo. about cubits whatever they wish, they speak without fear of the Muficos there The account of which matter in Art noltra Ma-
genetics chap. de Magnetifmo Mufica? , ubr And you will find other delightful things of this kind fimul useful Hence some of the secret architects of the channel but thus the palaces of princes overflow, as Prin the stock has no problem with fermocinations in places cognizance assigned to a multitude of people He likes to talk about things, and to be warned about clandestine things: de to whom all are fufi in noftra Magia Ca- toptrica But whether anyone can channel the voice he wants to include it, so that it really remains there; just as John the Baptist passed through the Gate he gave will fall into the magic of light and shadow. Expediency f. De Speculo zAcufticus, (eu Auditorium. C He who had a parabolic mirror, he will be able to marry someone else, fubfidio hu the right of fpeculi, whatever he wills, fubmifla to contribute by voice Let it be a parabolic mirror AB, the focus of the parabola E, where the common not the converging point of all the rays it is Sitfonans, feu vocale C, auri amici ap folded at point E. I say the words quantum- Vislubmifle brought out from C, in a straight line opposite having been transferred to the fpeculum, it will be beaten in E, hence finished There is a wonderful voice that intenfg the will speaking in C, they will remain silent. A mirror but it is necessary to blow a large, fpacio fum. See what my little brother has done tes in the cited place. Corollary. 'Inc a huge rock appears parabolically excautamad o paflusfubmiflam vo Pofle to pay the price, such as P. Joannes Paes in the fua of the Abyflines, Hiftoria will write in to be found in the mountains of the Goyams; it is now in the mountains are huge rocks that nature wears excavated, as a mirror from a remote the bus should appear. Opposite to this is another rock a thread, on the top of which there is nothing adeofubmif- at! f mt- he likes to be said, however removed, that not to be heard. As for those crying out in the said flho, feu instead, I bent the rope so much that the voice of the army a! idttorta- to be seen by anyone; they know the secret the force of the floating nature of the craft of that place, who to demonstrate the divine faith, men in cacu- minemontispofitosoccultishujufmodi vo food warns of things to come, but those fe It is not uncommon to think that, inspired by the voice of God the greatest calamities are rolled away, while The horses rushed more unaided. What if they are true, believe that this cannot be done by any other reason I will give you a snow through the object endowed with a parabolic shape by nature, in which one of the country's poflt rocks let the fpecies of fire come together. Hence many those reported by Hiftoricus, which a mostly for stories, let them be held. Herberfteinius narrates, in The province of Candora last Septemtrion in hU the river flow, which is frequented by fpetras to appear there, and the voices of men and the animals there on the opposite bank of the river no one has yet breathed a sigh of relief; he said where which scarcely passes a day, or a month, especially at the time, do not let the voices of the dead be heard. I am sure of the tree there is no other portent than this
men, of animals that utter true voices in the cite rising from the river plains, from ca the force of the tranftiest rocks reflected in the glasses, that in the banks of the conftitutus flmplices, People are exhausted by this fear and panic He rests with a kind of fear, when nothing happens He prefers to impose minions more easily than lu divunda hujufmodiNaturloquacitas. Car- Caf, M ev. Danish book He tells a story about futility about some kind of family deception. I will give it, said the friend nofter, when he was on his way let him cry out that the river would not make a ford it cries, Oh? to which the hidden Echo replies, Oh? he let the Exiftimanshominem fle, asks Ita- No. or nArtk magm Book 1L Lars I. lice: Ohdedetiopafiar? pafia? reposted: then who? who? is replicated. But deep down there they sprang up with a very prudish water; whereupon he, terrified, asks again, God Who will be shot? fcchorefpond Qtpaffliqui? To whom to the pious questioner, he answered the same question. Why when a friend between fear and neceffi- cfTet swimming ability, and night darkness, tempefta would insist, the devil was given to me to be swept away, so that he fell into that torrent he would have precipitated the exit: why did he return the game told the whole matter to Cardano, who did not Damon's unfaithfulness, not pliantafmata fionem, fed by the nature of the joker lufum fuifle ipfo demonstrated the fact Of this nature por held that Syracuse was also about to be destroyed in the Palace of Dionysius, where in a certain matter nature reflects us so aptly in the vault, that nothing more admirable in such a matter I want to share it with you. So many things through A small parabolic shape was created they are overflowing with all capacity. Experiment Ve fpeculo Elliptico Acufiico. Figure Horn These things further while deeper look you seem na- there they provide such a daughter or auditory gana conceffiffe om animals a more timid bus bus, as I heard foot, foot at what speed hoftium infi they should avoid the gods: hence Leporu tunnels And the deer the ears are pointed mgelOhanSiti, feu raboliform, feu oviform in shape They are adapted, and I call them so accomodating they are able to give, as a recess or inside a cavity elliptical, or parabolic, of multiple reflections At last he beat the drum with the greatest intensity fe whistles III. $am. Kmt, Jiye de fraSiiorte "the voice in me- god denjtori A little light in the midst of it incident is refracted to the perpendicular Q And indeed the elliptical organ ret, so that the points made by comparison they would report two fires, this will be intrumen- and the best for daftris: for from too many vowels the word thus intended by multiplication, utipiri- tus auditory tympanum it is smooth See the true dehifce of the learned Apiaria de Mufica of the father of Bettinius, where fuse this machine and carry it skillfully it works And we are curiqse in Magic Catoptrica we turn around that. Alexander too He had a big horn that was so intense foni, as he the whole army, however much so presiding over the assembly rit, and the presiding officer of the clay would speak. For mam horn in the ancient Vatican Codex no book of the Secrets of Ariftotel to Alexan When I find a drum beater, I publish it here I wanted to make it on the right, the diameter of the horn it was five cubits, and each rope ad it was perceived for a hundred days. How au the horned tem to be animated with vehemence protects, it will be said elsewhere: a figure is made. the matter, so Simia the rope of light: which so offended we give Sitfonus vehemensin A; EB you will make the sea; B, pun&um in which the ray? ic X DF, the bottom of the sea. Sound therefore from A, radiating to B, when he finds himself there obftans fibi medium denfius, not correctly ex A through B into F, fed into C, is carried: Whence fi quenter auris effet conflicted in F, fundo ma rice I say that I did not perceive her voice, fed for the same reasoning is in C the profusion of fpecies of sound, and of light; Fed the eye in F, because of refraction, would not see ob- j cetum A, fed into C, crushed; therefore the same there is a reason for the leaf. The truth about this and my family but see the most interesting treatise on Art noftra Anaclaftica of the chapel
'IC Xhisfectiur, that with which it was denfied the middle, the weaker the voice would be. But the more clear, and the more subtle, the more it will be deeper and more complete; to use the light also it is dkftum, whence vaporofo air, cloud, crafloque, we breathe less than the sky clo, fereno, thin In the swamps too less than in mountainous and high places regions: less again in the meadows her- in bofis places, as in alpeftri, because hereafter the voice is not cut off in various ways, as there. In In churches full of men, less how empty; in short, the water fof the foni we perceive very weakly, and indeed so much weaker, the more deeply we listen. George Buchanan tells in Fliftoria fua Scotland, in the Province, which Fifam ap they drive on, finding the parcel. Deaf from It was said to the natives that it was from the adversary I relaxed on the part, excited by every tremor, nay I burst out with a warlike cannon, but still their tentacles are so embarrassed that they do not even speak let them perceive the swiftness. What is true is at least this matter is caufaeflepoteft, in the first foli- the wealth of the greatest stone, than any ray the sound penetrates: the fruit is fertile, and that is the reason why you don't have any kind of ray of light to the ears; given to anyone even the most vehement phonation of the necephalus let them be ashamed of those who were hiding there. And so they are, because of the radiation of the leaves briefly We are afraid to say it. Who, however, is more circumcised ca the nature of the fon, &decfieftis in the souls He willed more things to stir up men let the world of the magnetic world come of Magnetism Muficse, the Magic of Catoptri cam, Muficamnoftramcuriofam; where- especially for this business he will find it. It follows already that of Phono- critical five about Phonognomia something di camus Maps from: fimvd. CHAPTER VIII. T H0 q 1tg, SIVE c On divination concerning the temperament of the propojtti's body from the phone and the voice to complete the same. Unfortunately, in the previous ones from the colors given to each thing rum infpeftione, Clirimus criticism we instilled art, so in this place rallela by a certain Phonocritic reasoning, leu We have decided to introduce phonology, as Ledtori curiofo immenfc light, and give the shadow the defects were more clearly visible. It should be noted, therefore, that we are double at this point to trust poiTe fonurn, animated, in animated: animated again or rational, or it is irrational. Nothing sounds rational it is another thing to grasp the laryngeal artery with the help of the voice gis epiglottis brought forth by the animal, when with the intention of pretending something: which last we distinguish the particles of the human voice from of beasts and inanimate beasts, and what they happen without intention. Animated fountain the voice of the brutes to the gunmen is irrational instilled in the soul to be shaped. Lifeless! but the rope of the bodies of whomsoever they are not it is the collifio of the animators, whose funtto-j the explosions of the cannons, wood rum, metals, and other bodies collapses Since then the rope of one one body was sharper than another body with a fib equal to the fono, and then to conclude with a necefal tur, the body of a sharper phon is blown by a rarer fub to blow, pngdominiumue air, or carry fire True, as in art come out of court, take this test. The Phonocritic Experiment. From the nature of nature, the generation of trees, officinalis, trace minerals by They must first be properly carved out of all the trees. parallelepiped, or cylinder dri oins equal in size, and the thread strike with a sledgehammer j the most fpecies of ropes; for another whether a different tone, a ditone, or a tritone, another diateffaron, diapente, or also diapafon, ad rock fit while tU nArtis magna Book II Part you will find a different sound; habitué confonan of these proportions, easily of the bodies natural conflict, how much whether the other becomes more complacent, or to what extent you will judge the right and the porophis on the other. When nor is the gnawing of any body from the greatest of terrestrial and aquatic parts arise from passion, so much will one be den son, as much as his parts were more congenial: and as much as the body was more slender, so much
it will be more serious; the heavier, the slower will be moved; how much slower do you move fonillupiex, is the fonab so much heavier? But it is gra- I will be whence the lives of the two bodies of the fount: for some gravitM they have a heavy strong sound: others the act is heavy and dull; It shows signs of temperament: here I am watery, and moist, and badly compacted. A rarity indeed with the origin of the most porophant fubftants he has, he becomes capable of many things, so great is his heart the pores will be rarer, the more porous they are, and the lighter they are, the faster they will move tur, &confequenteraltius, and acutiufque fo- nabunt- Note, however, here we do not talk about soft and liquid bodies, cujufmo- Wool, feathers, liquors, and silks spread not compact, nor foliadafubflancia con fancies, of which I desire; fed from the body bus leaves, and dry; some of which are ropes they will also have a sharp, strong, penetrating; other acute indeed, fed for tufty and weak: as he prophesied, lx- and avoided; so indeed here you have prophesied, but flac the fubftance of cidius; proves the point. that of the bodies of metals or bodies gods, of silver, of copper, of iron, of lead to be killed Which; all in the noftra Mufurgia you will find it very interesting and novel. Wherefore from this time we form thus duly trusted the prolific Phonocritic Canons. Canon i. phonocritic of bodies [oli dorum self-knowledge Q I of the body of any leaf fa pofitnt O rjus body equal fonum heavy fue- qlhitatum rit, &obtulus, is the manifestation of water he will give arguments in the body, as in lead for mer- bws perfi- curjaps supply of moisture; be a rope indeed he had a heavy, strong fed then sure of the terrible, the evil, and the good you will pronounce the stake with the temperament of the body, as in iron, steel is to be seen. If I continue fo the nut of the leaf of any body was sharp, and thin air will give indications of the temperature and of course, but of the flaccid fubftance as will be seen in the future. If, in short, it was fo sharp, violent, and penetrating then you will certainly conclude that the body of the fire is hot cover, five thin, and very light fub ftantia; , hopefully we will see. Phonocritic Experiment The temperature of liquids. A Ccipetres, four or five cali- glasses, all shapes and sizes eat the waters, which you all divert into liquid ZfZbeL you will fill with water, wine, and other so, however, that all have an equal ple the term of the thief of the splendour: after this bum, I wet the rim of the cup with my finger as well you will rub for a long time until you perceive the rope which, indeed, is a source for the diversity of liquids, it will also be different. For the more futile if any liquid, it will sound so much sharper, and the more I scratch it, the more serious it is. From here the lion, when he became more sympathetic, Scientius, so much it will also ring more heavily; water is heavier than ropes bit water vinee, luec heavier fpirits, live of the fifth effervescence. Noting, meanwhile, that oleaginous liquids, etc as far as fubftantity is concerned tearere nature, yet slow I will give the fubftantia a little maj ore fo to avoid gravity. In the rest, however, it is liquid for those who lacked this slowness, from the prsedum you will easily judge of the elementary things, whose fint rule; Canon z. Phonocritic of liquids. C The cord of the cup was heavy and dull; the aqueous temperature of the liquid the marshy water, as you can he sounds more acutely in a squeamish temper. sefd pif- Siphonusfueritacutus, thin, air tem-P- You will have an indication of the end, as in the dead with trickling waters, which; femper sharper fo Do they have any elemental water? Yes in short, the rope was very sharp, futile, and penetrating, of a fiery temper, I tell you that he will provide a chin, to be used in fpirits, quinc It appears from your emotions, which; the same amount in glasses equal to a sharper fo whether they drink, as in other liquids. How much, indeed, of each of the liquors of the other fub it becomes more linden, ipfe the rope will tell. For if the diapaphon played their piety to the other,
it is certain that he is twice as futile as the other cry out But from now on, let Mufurgia noftram curiofa fufiflimoste all through clattering Qanon q, Phonocriticus 'cooks animals'. VOx animals brutis this end by nature it is put in, so that by it paflionesftuas fi they signify, either to men, or I have been to the likes of them. For experience, birds, dogs, cats, the cattle form another voice while cholera they are moving, while another is melancholy, or critically phlegmatic, while they love another; flattery there, while they desire and fear another intercourse, or they desire something vehemently; While %0phono When cholera moves, it is sure to be acute with a voice, ani remfon to eat them, as while hungry let them go Cholera therefore is rare, small, and thin Inenulm voice sharpened, that which melancholy, gnofcatur phlegm subsides due to slowness of humor; but the boiling of the fenguin renders it tempered. If, therefore, the mantle was choleric, the voice of the it is sharper and sharper, as in dogs and cats bus rabidly agitated to see ifbdum coitum ap they ask, let out a sharp voice, and moan bu-ndam, a sign of boiling water: another therefore, and moved by the humor of others, another they eat another voice; from which knowledge the soul may be formed by the voice of the tongue Who can understand the matter, how? it is read of Apollonius Thyaneus; We explain the language of animals in the most difficult way in the work we know, that the Tower of Babel in the wild bi mouse, where I was at the time many things were rare and new The curious reader will find a wealth of information here. m. Canon q. Tbonocriticus teaches hmnam. (Various is the variety of words among men, and multitude does not become less variety human faces; a Roof, however, inte of a better man they forge more easily, and with more certainty through They polish the voice that the color is to be traced. Hence the character of any one knowing Plato we read the folium to say rum; To speak, as let me see you: indeed, nothing else, nifimo- whereas through the inner voice of the soul temperature He seemed to hint that he would be polite then, everywhere he goes. Ifacus also did not table, fed voice gnofc5' the difference between the brothers cognoiffe facr pa the strength of the chest by the voice, when he said, those who have a strong voice, what an end to continue with the interruption, great to have a chest Galen, of course he speaks only of the voice of the strong, whose head the chest is large, cvaftus with a lung large, and broad, and with strong larynxes gys and epiglottis. There are, however, other words different, that not so much from the chest, pul warning, epiglottis, than a temperance they are strong for their origin: it is of any kind voice slow and quick, sweet, catchy, deep ta, confufa, fridula, acute, grave, balla, average, temperate, ridiculous: quereo- mnes of different words for different themes there are signs of the dead; easy with the colors are combined and polished, as it is done.
De Doceintenfa, grave, which corre- It is black in color. therefore with a loud voice kiter, tefte Ariftotele, refer to Who finos, confequently fuiitinjuriofi, cOiltu- meliofi, petulants, accusers: akin but those accusers, and cdntumeliofos their nature is mischievous, insulting, and Meliofa, while she is well-behaved, teaches fate. One of Ariftoteles he concludes thus: Affinus admor while he has a great voice, &grave, akin is indifferent, petulant, St contum liofus: therefore, whose loud and heavy voice it is, they are petulant, indifferent, defiant snow But let us see the reasons for this, it stinks YoCem conjeBuu a great blow to those animals we see that they have a great afpera ar- avofJni terium, and thence emit a great deal of air; They have a lot of air that slows down They drive outside the artery. A great vow therefore they have a cem, that they are great animals, which niam, and to these great intruments are added Therefore, even such people will not be punished. Who they have a great voice, and amplopedlore there are, and a great artery, and a crooked neck; I give it in them the dominatrix was pregnant. RatU d$eft Especially with a loud voice and gravity tem, which the slowness of the cold makes we perceive that cold temperament the piccum indicates that this is terrible; to whom such temper, that avaricious, and timid who
he who is indifferent to the latter is base; who in they are extremely intolerant and intolerable, in ad- You are more timid than nature Cornelius Tacitus noted in Caligula. I went De DocegraDi inprincifiw, &in trusting, with which it will shine with a bright color. 'E' Os, which at first begins with a heavy voice in they define us as sharp, we complain, we are angry let us enumerate the gifts, rumhc is nature: but we are the reason of this We will explain a few things. It is certain that mceftis with pain and heat from the circumference to the center around the heart together with the spirits ligiluperioribus coiilequently members lore of the destitute left in the cold; because of the cold Gus, therefore, in that place, spoke in a slow voice it is, and it is heavy, so that the heat is abundant around the heart the piofo needs air: whence it is much blackened hunt for air, which returns slowly, much air external moves: whence it is finished in the beginning a loud, heavy voice emerges; and since I and complaining, as with the Poet I will say It is done with tears, it is done that I give; It becomes, as from the chattering of complaints, heat around the heart moving out with great speed let the air tremble, whose motion I do not perceive a sharp rope will also be made i n i: IQO eArtis Magna Book II. Part
Ve yoce sharp, soft, broken, which white color Wherever, while they speak, the voice which is already sharp, soft, and sharp they send out, we call them soft people effeminate But here we call vo soft cem, that it is slow and slow yes, it moves a few airs, such as you hear a mouse in flattering women and boys while they were speaking, I stopped in the middle of words They say that they have great things about their hearts the wood of the poet is woven in this verse: It begins to be stressed, and the middle reftftit in the voice. I believe that the cause of this matter is the effect of the heat the fetid and humorous excrement for when the heat fails; so softly, it moves intermittently; but it fails, be compacent returned with excessive humor, from which almost rushes Let us therefore reason in this way; sharp voice soft, interrupted teaches the moist fupra ca web domain; but the temperature in which this happens, is effeminate, and soft, and prone fiones to softness, and to the rejection of the anus He tells me: "So the voice? He does not do this Fed indicates the flexibility of the mind and nature a woman Woe yocegrayi, and perplexed, that He hides his son in red, a fiery color. Whoever, while they are speaking, has a voice bent, heavy, great, and perplexed, they, according to Philofophus, are bold, strong, ready hand But we say full xam vo cem; when indeed didtiones pras with too much speed of the speaker you interject between they are, and inarticulate, and so they speak from the mouth they are eaten rapidly, so that one fu- when he arrived, he confused the listener; how they like to speak, for the most part, who when he naturally feints boldness, he is of great spirit rather, than seem to speak ZLT. This is the beginning of this matter. gtamu mus, For with a strong temperament iiabe exceedingly hot, thrice reftre, and they found a heavy voice; let the air move a great deal; voice in It is neceffe to arise from a great and complicated for while the intense heat stirs, by which of his powers, and of certain vigor therefore, it is disproportionately mobile, vehe a wiser man, than is fitting, pushes it, alas hementer propulphaposterior voice priorifu arrived; and with her feed, etc so he is confused, the voice is rendered perplexed. Whoever, therefore, has such a wish
cem, that bold, precipitous, ve He was not a little strong in his body we will say finished.
And the yoce is soft, and with fine strife, who answers to colorifubflayo. T TI those who are strong with a soft voice, ftne con- -intention, they face forward for they are manfueti, and are referred to ves, tefte Philofophus: this in children, to virgins, while they are merry bation, and the fertile nature of the difpoftti you will perceive: whence we form this reasoning. Whosoever speaketh naturally, Reason of voice ftne affectftu, they have a small voice, mol-molls- lem, and remiflam, they are manfueti, and timid naturally starched, fat sheep, of the same kind
they have a voice, and they are the same manfute, timido: fed who naturally suffer in juries, they are moderately angry, nor ad they break out for revenge; of the same kind as more therefore the sheep rejoice in their voice. For they are of a moist and cold temperament, to which faith, and attitude of mind together with voice and com modifies f. Ve yoce sharp, and intent, which color corresponds to intense red. while they utter a voice acu- They are so, and fiercely, angry Lantes, libidinophis, and Typhon, Caprifque are compared For the goat is an animal a warm garment on the verge of death he has mixed melancholy and melancholy; when they do not agree well, I do not know what they indicate the decay of moisture in ftcco, and a grave smell, which they exhale, that is fate declares Wherefore whoever had this nature; and they will have the voice of the goats lem, and the same impulse of inclination. Ve rum no one we at this point so inclined he thinks to accept violence, so as not to oppose He is willing to be tamed by the virtues of these virtues; when not so malicious and perverse becomes he who is a man he is not able to protect himself. I therefore conclude with the Poet: The envious, the hot-tempered, the idle, the drunkard, the lover, No one is so wild that he wants to be kind. If only the culture adapts to the patient au the matter But we are now left to the rest of the matter adtinobolifmos diquirendos, pen let us convert CHAPTER Ofmetictu. CHAPTER IX Of the rest of the fenfus, smelling the touch,
T)e radiation Ofmelica jiVe odorative. then Radiation ofmetics how UM fragrance is made of quality of the first commiftionc supporting qualities do hot and threatening the sense of smell; surely he la by no reason fiftipoteft, nifiper ofmetic, feu radiation afub- jeclo fphgriceper medium diffiifarmfi for oder pu. that we may teach the matter by experiment, a group of ex dimr. A stream made of silver thread from the ceiling is learned, experience teaches from every part temediiodoremmufchipercipi; but not if it were to be done, you would deceive the imitation of the light Expenmen- pQre ocaroato would pour through the middle; It differs, however, from the radiation of light, which I smell the transfer of rice is made through the middle of the fuccefliva, lu cis it becomes infantile, it becomes the Sphsra of virtue of the fragrance material, but light from all matter g fej un give strength The doubt finally came out here tur, how hgc radiation ofmetic through me a long time is brought: a day through a real fire, whether through the medium or whether it is intentional. Prior to which: Part of the ition is protected by those who hold it then fumofum, the evaporation of the smoky fire nem, and the fubftantity, not what they are afraid of the smell Many others leave no doubt; what about both we must open it now. We say the smell which the ipfae thing buys in the middle don't take a breath formally, fedfub- Jewish that Ephthodore, whom we perceive he is not to be feared at all by the smoky elf the exhalation from the odorous body the smell in the far-river in the medium diffififa, fed in the breath of that ineft htfioneineft f'uJecftive, from him through the middle as if to ride it is carried by a kind of ass; fic we understand those who smell smoky exhalation they call: who indeed, as the saying goes, unkind bodies of the first qualities con It is supported by growth, by a dominant color, by heat but by boiling the moist, drying it. Some wet, and warm prsedomi the smell of the yarn, the argument is that the matter the smell of the rifene plus the requo macerated through they give: then the odoriferous things are not proved they shine, the snow in the regions of the most fervent Sun fubjecfis On account also of the ofmetic organ is convinced that the predominance of the smell fictitious, which is filled with humor and phlegm the organ loses its olfactory power, as in us We experience a cold catarrh of the flu: heat the thing also required in the smell of the hair in the tempe reason, experience teaches us: for plants florefquelocis paludofis, uiiginofis pro- fitbjeBive not the form liter Vndeodor. coming, no, or very much missed they fpirant tuff, not other than caufa, for want of snow excessive heat and humidity. Water: also fragrant: also, they present an intense smell. God The hair was tempered, because it was made fragrant by fire
be reduced to ashes, not so much as Vtrumei, they smell, fed lose all strength. It becomes very real tur[so that we may return to our inftituturn]ra- fereratur diation through the middle and some indeed through f. be a real thief, but an intentional one even in more remote places, not faeces and defpi-. We have taught the phonetic transfer. Before rice is the reason; for when the middle, let d with sound and smell, tefte Philophus; medium au nothing else is made to suffer from the smell, than the air q in such a way as to suffer from the smell of the thing, so that it reeks: but with the thing there is no need to grieve, let the scent of the snow be fertile reale effedto, as a white necefle, nifi can let it have a smell; receive the real, and finally by air to be brought to the fruitfulness of the royal uniform three times deformed Not to be feared, however let it spread the fruitful scent of the real world the whole magnitude in which it is perceived, when it is not verifiably done, so great a force is given to him, that He was able to communicate all the words perfectly: therefore it needs a vicarious object, which is nothing else how fragrant fpecieseftmon therefore fruitful Efle only real any one, fed also to remote locations, be fruitful and intentional smell is carried Cleaned up the corpse fields The eagles were roused by its foul smell, Crows fly even from the most remote places you will see for yourselves; but it is verifiable that they were not excited by with the smell of the real corpse, it is not possible to conceive it becomes that that smoky breath leads to even more He was able to radiate the distance of a mile; therefore from intentional scent from evils, lest they should fail in death, by nature organized Therefore, air and water are fubjeftnm made of light, and of sound, and of scent. And of air indeed there is no doubt they doubt: at the same time they have a complex experience of com- fubjecium to radiate even in fragrant waters. Pifces aittd pe enimrebusgravioriodoreimbutisallicinul-! f" the light must be clear. They will object, however In this place some people, pifces of the living thing obj ccto, or aroused by a hidden quality to make really I am wrong: for it is the grass that moves living things pifces; therefore noftunulluspifeiscapietur: at experience teaches us that there is no time for the poor nodturno is more apt to be taken: therefore by smell from they are quoted, give some experiment be said
experience io8 aArtis magna Book ll. JPars I An experiment. On the radiation of odor in the medium of water. Take the earthworms that are afraid of fire with the hook stuck in and at once aroused by the smell of tufted worms pifces in a train with the greatest pifcarator they will rush to profit. But become the same worm m a fiam fucco Afse fcetidx you will be infected, no just don't attract pifces, fed& all you- You will be driven away by the smell of this herb. Like ex the experience of Centumcellis fumpli a. For when the sailors were at that time in port I am a nation attached to a certain Polypus they would seize him, and there was no way to weep for him so many times to tear away the entanglement from thence; I was confused, as They would smear him with public paint, whose us 'Expmmw- dorem herb? as much as possible I had known ijpofum- traria. Said, fatftum; barely for the dicfaherba had touched Polypus, when Behold, the cirrus blossoms, fleeing because of the smell of the enemy pouring out the thing, put the tank in the naflas The tooth provided the captive fe. I add, you will find others I will give you five friends, not five enemies from a different place than by smell. Ad also the propaganda of the foboles, books and dynes, with the scent of incense, to use 8c terreftria I am so certain that the animals are aroused, that those who he denies, trying to make an irrepressible force can be seen Who kills Lucius with the smell of a thief? the back is especially attracted by the aromatic mufco Ba laenas, seaweed, Apujas; slowly nes, 8t fic about foreigners, which is a long-winded reciprocity tare Although I won't deny, the smell of ob- I would have been more affluent than a coward animals, and to have radiation someone to the radiation mode outside the water, fi- cut the refracted radiation to direct: for use a ray of light is broken in the middle of the flower, and it is blunted, and thus the ray of fragrance. But these things let them suffocate from the smell. The remaining fenfus Guflus, And more silent, when they are not moved by the object of the snow prcefen, to finish them with radiation and it was not so proper as a scent: a thing
they would still claim some impunity fo fenforio. This, however, cumfab analogy lu we decided to leave them out. C onfeElarmm. x this class of odoriferous things it is clear, no stone, no plant, ar I am a bore, an animal, because I am not material with the emanation of an odor like a certain vehicle in He will radiate the world, when no body is mixed He loves to be afflicted, because he is full of scent ca therefore let all things be perfumed with some perfume. therefore they will radiate; indeed, they will radiate uniformly three times; therefore, the limit of the activity of ra is necefalario He will give it the figure of which it was a radiant body, as if it had been mufehum ro tundum, fplura border of profufa virtue will be a circle: fi will be a square, will be a term a square nut, and you will reason about other things. And these things about fenfibiliradiation should be done; about another radiation of fympathic power it must be said that things are put into the fruit. CHAPTER X Ve Mvjfeu radiation yirtutisplafica, feji formative internally. EM dicipfilem, jkplenum alex, let's get to work while the whole of nature the key is broken; it is these things illaplathic virtue, which from any woman then and the heart of an animal? it manufactures pus: it is hardly possible to say what these things are most Medicorum, P hilophophorum- who exercised his talents, as in desperation even many, to the astonishment of all wears For there is hidden in it the divine Worker, who works in the bottom of the body with great destruction, and with great commotion, and opufce He produces so many things worthy of admiration crammed with variety and elegance and that from the raw and unformed matter in which no difficulty, no variety, no de nor does the division of parts meet the fenfes. For we see in the woman, however, to no end the whole side of the tree with the root trunk, branches, leaves, twigs: from grain hor the root, the stem, the shoots, and the grains proceed from the god: In the egg of the female bird hides the bird with with all, and with all color differences. In female animals the body with all the members, the heart, ce rebro, lung, liver, fplen, cow, fto- macho, kidneys, nerves, veins, tendons, quorumfingula certain fuafigura, color, they are endowed with properties. Who else matters? so various, and disparate, in the homogeneous hides the body s? what material u now in snow, now in liquid form he breaks the matter, but now the soft flesh of Peter he says, does it extend into the tendons and cartilages? Surely there is no other, that virtue of snow-making, for but the workman of Almighty God to things that are propagated by generation entered This is due to each member made Affiinobolijmus Virtutis (palaftiue.
fig, color, shape, proportion, he affirms the quality; I divide the body into so many channels, channels, passages, tubulofque is dug. For this reason he should make a play, no one told me what to do. We are for we will try something with the modus operandi of our knowledge. Let us, therefore, briefly prafteing the clay; women to tain to spread three times over the whole mafla of women, id ultt pme. effe the whole in the whole, and the whole in which I like women on the part: the reason of which is that ex sometimes with one, sometimes with several foes and no less from some one in part, as from the whole, complete the conception tur: finally, that there is no confu- become, there is no perturbation, the snow is very rare, contin gat what ought to be done, however, must be deformed he would have three fe to the fubjeet; for in part with threats, a portion of the fce would perish tus fubjedfa to that virtue which is with women a portion falls short, and the figure of a transfer of parts would be introduced. Etfi but the femen is not in order to the fenfu beat heterogeneous parts, in fe so em confi- has a derated, when it is not done at all plex, fed composed of many: fiquidem that portion of power which comforts the brain he preferred not to have any heart or liver in effect ra; and which gave shape to the works, not at all will stretch the membranes, or fpi he will roll up the ras, so as to dodliflime infinsilleac imtomQoi Doctor Marcus Marcus in genius
he demonstrates the working of ideas by work. the difficulty of follummodd, which virtue in so far confused, he does not act confused, fed maxi me If you order: that to be explained, the experiment before ch. bring us here first then it must be repeated here. Expmmen- It is depicted in the object' each ball the figure of a man shot out with rays, with all bus, lingulis members When this is done in in a darkened room, next to the experiment of this book bitum, through the most minute and punctual fora men fpecies of the image of man a little before the effigy is inserted into the paper in obfcu- the rat chamber was burned; and experience cliffs, fpecies of the image together with the color of the to be represented within the two members. If true you have applied the chara to the hole, the whole fspeci- rum will be disturbed by the diffusion of rum, and nothing, snow a bright circle will appear: the more so from the hole you move the board, so fpecies the image will be further developed, and so on the natural perfection of life it runs Here it is certain, the razors are made of clay gis members of the image through the middle of the ra diare in the pundtual hole unconfusingly niri, where etfi to fenfu fimplex radiation of light to be seen; developed, however, a little, no fimplice fpeciem, fed by an infinite then I imagine a rich variety of colors the dispute between the parties, and the end of any confusion IvTwm you will see with astonishment when you take it apart to corrode the members of the clay into clay, and which, together with the fpecies of the colors of the moulders because different members. If there is anything in the matter rum nature incomprehensible that pla- he will explain the manifold variety of virtue, hgefane exphcat. I therefore say the same prophus for the reason that the plastic force is contained in the fpermate fiveformaz the worker, figuti fpecies of colors in the air For the seed is from all kinds of clay a mat of falling into a woman's womb, ceu a place of abundant natural radiation smoke; there the matter is indeed complex and homo- a fertile genea wrapped in fennel, born but the rays of the heat of the vafus promote gradually begins to develop; and through Ideas of this kind, and practical reasons, parts begin to differ, soon members diftingui, a fe diftare Therefore, as in one hole pundto all living fpecies they are restrained by virtue; developed: still I am stuck the branch, the shape, the colors of the cast members they are dying of rum; so profuse fe has plafti- ca in fpermate virtus: for the rays of others, because longer, and pertain to the utmost fuperficia go on, some end with a shriek from the beginning, others iphtheric fiction, some flat, others end differently there; from which every variety returns to the foetus gives, as shown in the figure. Where do you see it from? to all the members of man B C, to the clay in women in A, the position of the uterus projecting to the pumila collected and rolled up from point A, in which they are indeterminate, and the potential by virtue, from here gradually arouse the warmth of the womb first into the main members, then the other members in water time mo you are different. Order the ear of reason it seems to have been raised, more noble, and from whom the rest depending on what, parts of the radiation first I rolled And so we see the heart before others the rise of fanguine fibers also manifests fteceu vital instrument, spirit re: then the brain, then the liver, then from the lung, and the ftomaclius fupaulatim line they stumble upon the minds of those who take us for granted experiment A wonderful experience. A Take the egg on the third day of incubation -tufum,
then bread in the development of the lingula members at all Artis Book then, fmicrofcopiodiligently infpicevitel light, and the manifestation of the heart will appear in it effigies of concrete drops of mud; alive, and stirring faith in a strange manner of bleeding fibers, from it on all sides as from You bring forth rays of light, and streams from the fountain: although the pod appears to be three days old the matter of the movement of the heart and arteries, but nothing the remaining members are yet to appear you will find, nifipod four other days of ffina dorfals, as it were, derived from the brain rudimentum, and foggy fubdantia com he faces Then red the rest of the members
j juxta pe rfetrione cuj ufvfs, in which fin- the organs of the body fit for the work and color each one of his own in the clay pin they are heard, and by the sound, and by the smell of every one born the rae of the day are endowed with their own, until in perfe the mass of the fabric grows. What happened in the days of the clay, one of the sheep from the first my elbow is broken, he is not long bi-dating the order of the members, pro- And the head in the generation of which any one can easily co- gnofcerepoflet; to use in man, with it then the system of the limbs in the animal becomes, which in man It is clear, therefore, from these, that Omine not cuyytom, five fimultaneam; fed juxta denial God a more insidious development of the parties, now more slowly, now to touch the loan: which om nia are also made of colored fpecies with the exhibition of rum, as, the chief snowman from the fora show me what you have learned; beyond and on this side, neither hil another, without the crude effigy of fpecies you will find out. Just as well The hooves radiate from the center to the globe radiisfuisinconfuse, so, fpeciesplaitica Analogy of power from the center to the circumference; no the body and mind of the worldly worker from the center the worldly machinery of the world tibm mttn-fpecies in difparaditida members, in ele mints, and balls of coeledcs: at first indeed Like the sun in a certain heart, megacofmi gathered: Support in the brain, Saturn in the spleen of the world, Mars in he par, in the lungs of Mercury; in spirit and the scum of Jupiter, and Venus in femen of heaven, and finally in Hypochondria the Moon, all things into a great man's covenant with the good he fashioned; so in a small man of fpecies together with the color of the wood there is no doubt that the evolution of the price will take place he must The only difficulty that arises from this is the force of the placard would develop fspecies of members in fpermate hidden, infallible proportion, there are all men in the drawing of the body rum, and other affections similar to
which, however, is only abed, to be fint, unless it is in an obscure place, or with some kind of fpeculiar three thousand thousand have been found two by om- recolledhe have been. As the colors ex-. i. verotorameniiiob- nia fifniles In a man who does not marvel at the trenches, by the sledgehammer! e vero foramenmob Part V the variety of faces and two swords in clay, with such a man by the diversity of natural inclinations, obdupefeat? I say therefore; I don't cover up I would say that there is such a variety of things to be thrown out; fed imaginations, af- perpetuated by the hatred and perversions of human genius your move in parents while fe know They make it powerful, which is like radiation reaching the difpofit matter, the same they print it, which we have said variety; which is a vague emotion when in living things it's not surprising, it's so feminine individual rims to be found, so that I could scarcely dignify them poffint guide And the way in which parents to their children they are the first to be greatly moved by the spirit rum fpecies, we have said in the Magne Arte tic cap. deMagnetifmoimaginationis, ad which we sent back to Ledor. Confederate W radiation of imagination. Mnia In the world mutual corradiationc to be done, by fate and beyond imagination He declares the stars, whose rays have such great power bent, as a man in that matter, as an ani he stirs violently, let them see him convert there What is more ridiculous, how those who are deluded by the power of radiant imagination. to come, as if another person had come upon you, that he should turn, lest he should collide faith another was roused upon him by the song of the roosters turning, with a wave of arms, with a voice what a ridiculous thing, with wings attached to it concurrence, and other things proper to the French the side is read. No one is deprived of faith he thought Use some in different animals I hunt wolves, wolves, dogs, and deer read at Schenchius in the offerings of the Medici. Where do you want these wonderful things? I answer, cause the efficient efle radiation of fancy destroy the material things of the mighty bottom gination grasping: formal, cautious exemplify the melancholic humor of wonders
received by the brain cells, which because of di-e mm' perverted and pastime immovable tenacity, fpecies extrinsic feceapprehenfas, by means of pantafla, ceu the principal agent, the carrier of the spirit in the difpofi- to impress with a kind of humor sends, which then the reflexes move the phantasy flam, to that they determine what ipfe refe runt, not faeces and fspecies of colors through me radiating for a long time, then they first appear, ABinoboufrmts Phantajiic Power i t turum tranfmiffi; I did not make a deliberate noise they acquire; so and extvinfccre things by the strong and violently grasping it through the tafiam, ceufenforium a certain mist smoke and vapor of the brain miffe, iilifs reflected the rays of fancy to it they move what they report mdancbo- of the fpecies of fomnians; for not any hamm ea- difference between lomnianes, &melancho- m. jjcos nif}, qUdd them in the natural vapor fpe- with their ass sleeping, these in a preternatural force with the help of fancy let them be given, who, indeed, drink from by the fumes of the stomach, as in fomniants, in thirdly from the liver, sometimes from the hypo chondriis &fplen, to use hypochondriacs, to use and from smoky exhalations in women he traces the origin of menftruatis: and this I have said mouse ad aptiffi- cry mum; who has the most intense humor whose object I was apprehended, or by violence with some passion of anger, of love, of vengeance, fear, a long, fervent meditation of the mind lest the tail should be aroused, and the brain tus, stubbornly hgrens there, in the cage where I will give things to the imagination (understood, in the mean time for the rational dominion of the Ipirites turbulence, &craflitieligato) like a refle xo was reverberating with a certain radio. But this experience teaches us to have a dark ueUn itafe: for it has been changed of tfoiicom. let fantasy give way to childishness. So doe's horns bus, as no one could imagine excreting A certain doctor has real deer horns on the head of the child, and then ipfo fpe- by giving, he could only benefit, as from infa nia would free a man from time to time. Such me God delivered another xiitcuU dis inftar was imagined to carry the nafum fe. nTfiirT For I sit with a long sausage on a child's navel tied up, which he thought was a real ship I'm sorry, even that childish fantasy disappeared So he, who was deprived of his head from the tree was carried, by the wearing of a leaden cap, of which The weight of his head finally recovered it overflowed, free from childish imagination he was But the leaves are released of the sailors let all be affected with great fear from the thing which the Moleftia of the greats apprehended Ma, it is certain that this humor is melancholy with grief of mind greatly increased, and instead of this, the blackness of the brain was affected by the soot the man to the priest's breath soon to return: but these soot in melancholic diffi- parinonpotefl, nifl with great joy, cujuf- it would be right, do this so abominably to them by removing what they fear, they would be freed. If, therefore, the physician is an expert, he must be trained that vain horn, for example, a deer he would cut off the grasping rum with such faith, that the fantafia believed that she had been amputated; no doubt it would be done with great joy I will expand with the help of corporal spirits rarefcen diffuse that moisture into the brain they would soften, and lead to rarefaction; rare tate introduced vain fpecies and shadows phantaftics through her they were rent, and at last they were freed by the priests the kidneys of the mind will doubtless be restored there I declare the matter by example. If you are in the nionlf the horns of a stag, the head of a fpecular fuperficia a phantom, a man with the end of his head, or the like what about the transparent colors, that is, let faith go riorum tinduris, of which in noftra Ma gia of light and shadow, he would paint; then in lo I block the sun's rays in a small glass let him in; it is sure to be against the wall part of the light reflected together with the colors the figure there, as we had painted it with a little I will exhibit, then the horns of the cer will be seen the wine has been kept on the wall for as long as
ramanferit in fpeculo Dark gray If you take away the small matter, it is already all one the appearance of fpecies Yes, it's a tall order melancholy affections should occur it is, in which it refers to a particular fuperficia soot vapor thick in receiving images we fit it in the brain reeeptaculi A man who acts in a fiendish manner is a wonderful man he will stir with vertigo; the flowing waves will be crushed, funny fan, aflwSmvariar fpecies in man he will mold his tears; but he has been gluttonous and you nax immobilifque, as in a fpeculum which Let me imagine the strange object to the same impreflu to fantasy give, as long as this fimular reflection tarndiu fimul even the childish conccpty of the matter is acted upon it will be lost; But it is a cloud of money, vain also the fear of the conception of the thing vanishes, why some But it is strange that this should be seen by anyone pollet, why in the rest, about only some obj would eat melancholic fa- lick? I reply that this is done because of the conti-PkKtes the nugget of the thing from the vapor of the fimulacri motionless in a fancy reflection, not otherwise than in the catoptrical image of the thing I did not determine be seen at a born angle; you eat an infinite number of other objects living creatures outside the radius of the living creature fleeing And whence these wonderful things are harmony, they explain a little more while I cry It moves There was no Philophophore here and there, which have a lot of fluids, to use in the body, so in He had denied his mind, and his experience Rum magiftra clearly teaches; for they are used Galen tefte, the temper of the mind and manners of the body; For when they are fimuljundafint, adin- it is murderous to pity the turn; but in these which they are for something fruitful, fada by a change in the one, it is neceffe, and the other change various pages anu effected Ridiculous body Si- mia. ridtcu- lam ani Jorti's mother then from fi food such a rum you do a lot he will be able to go the soul said ai p. hanta physical movements to excite Foundation then roar transfixed serious III it has also been said to the preceding fta, melancholy fa to stray the mind they are but with melancholy humor the mind is rectified to ferocity: the loves of which that, fears, pains, five trifles, vol ptas, feulaetitia, are paffipnesanimx; Fe for when we fear the soul, and love it the mouse as a principle; but in these the heart we see the pus suffer, change; afraid for they are pale, and bruised; zealous the shadows of the vain buffoons were delirious; funny rant lovers; others are driven by other passions there, which invade the heart of so many tomatoes, so that the snow can be planted at the right time for them, they are thrown into the open pitfalls of death: For when matter and form, body and soul But, as we have said, he was a fruitful child correlative, one being changed the other being changed it is impossible; what kind of body, then, soul: the ridiculous body of the Monkey, ridiculous He is also a strong soul. And this it is the first of the wonders which con- dye, the basis of operations. Another is the quality of food, which he can only use it to propel a man let him convert another; so manfueti in anger It is important to change the way things are done tibus, Urforum, Leonum, Tigris, Fimi- and the most ferocious of beasts guine, as Albertusteftatur For it is hidden in I did not know who the animals were the fires of ferocity and cruelty were extinguished Impress the same qualities from man sent, in the same movement aftedlionef and fti- mule Against the wild, ferocious, inhuman fumes, things that extinguish bile, phlegm (Galen) the book teaches about food; so the feast of the lamb and the frequent flow of the water-lily from luxuries He makes the continents: from the continents, indeed, Sa the soul of tyranny, skins, and deceit lyum's efitation renders the Salaces, &ficdecite rice; so that all fantastic operations they seem to derive their origin from steam bus, vapours Artls Magna Book 1L Part suffering, of heart, of brain; hsec from quality of food; quality you will inhale the vapor of the brain with that quality,
which ipfa is together with the objects of representation, affects; which, finally, was a reflection of the imagination to become, fantafia further the whole soul al grind Finished first. Foundation From all these things it is plainly clear, by what reason I am burdened in the sick, horses, and children, let the news be made. how can one speak of the confection of the body from them it can be divined. Also, on what grounds? do I fantasize about folaillufione? in any a thing can be transferred by natural force from another. Ve Whosoever trusteth more of this Magic rat, is the legacy of Oedipus delivered to the Egyptians and of the Magic and Sacrifices of the ancient Aegis of freedom where there is much unheard of about this matter From x hieroglyphics we produce diciplina. C onfe&arlum Secundum It follows from these also, for what reason vidx fosmina by reason of imagination print the potsherds of the spoils in the ice they remain True, when about this time fuse exadte in Art noftra Magnetic lib. Chapter of Ma- We would have given him the power of imagination We sent back Ledlor. So let these suffice fce a few all to light 8t shade system nem effidla, demonftrafle It will shine further This is the power of the imagination in ipfis also animals Surely the chickens are so strong I find that the tafix is powerful, even to the leaves immovable by the cordx, and as if pore quodampercuflaemanet Whose woe Experience will teach you how to do it. A wonderful experience GDe Imagination Hen. G I will bring Allina to the floor with her feet then put down something: which one first indeed, fanning a captive, winged by sculling and all the movements of the body I try to shake off the fibilinjcdla by all means it sweeps away; zABhiobolifrfuts 'phjlic virtue. it sweeps away; fed at last with a futile attempt, of escape as if defperabundant to rest fe compo nens, trusts to the will of the victor; Be quiet then fic, while the hen remains, from the eye of the same in I will put chalk on the floor a string of every kind of color; fix bring back the ram, d uces; then shackled her you will leave it dirty: I say that Hen quan Although he was covered with heavy bonds, he was still a gentle grandfather it becomes a scourge, even if it is made to fly away you will have changed Whose return indeed they were ed, the violent imagination of an animal, quece I doubt that line on the floor fua, with whom he is bound, he seizes. Try it This chin is more often than not the end of the swaying ad I went out with astonishment; I do not doubt that the same in it may have place for other animals. Indeed Ledor was more curious to see him. CHAPTER XI. from the radiation of the soul to the outside. They came here last some times, who a once condemned opinion nor of the rays of the soul from transfmifiis through the body recalled from hell, publ these books were brought to light They tried to defend themselves. wealth but the soul is bathed in rays from some of them you vibrate into things intensely distrusted, to which thicaradiasamici, Sc cousins of close nature To the agents, I have also added force, let them vent a great deal (say) experience will give change the death of his children in the remotest regions of those who were born to be predeceased by their parents a bus and they tell various stories, fe u rather fables about the soul of the dead; pain outside the body lying; do not desire that all this should be done they bring the end of the radiation of the soul into the places of God latencia But we accept this opinion what Orthodox Faith I will lose mouse for he did not pa that prefenfion rent to the sons in the great calamities of life which, being prepared with dangers, be sometimes con tinges, from the soul of the parents; I will be fed by Genius no, or by divine inspiration immediately successful, with all the Orthodox fans a mouse; We are not flattered by them to act in an extrinsic object, to change And in any way I was of the right to do it tumult: that all things in this place are often oars, boats, both in part in the world with a magnetic head, heads of fancy, of love, magnetism, partly in no- Itra Hieroglyphic Theology from the prophet, we will deliver the fuse; Wherefore it was not delivered let's hand it over I am afraid CHAPTER XII. On the radiation of elements and minerals ON we are joking here about ele mentary the quality of the rays
feddefympathic, five fpecificiabefie cujuvvis emanating from the matter. They note while then, no matter be in the world, because you are naturally with someone it does not agree, and disagrees with something else: His humility reveals harmony to him, and unity, but disobedience, discord: that I was going to the conference another way as good, this is something other than evil he avoids it at all costs. When the real thing the diation of fuppofiti, as fchola; they speak they cannot spoil the effect: provided nature in neceflarils benign opitulatrix therefore he infused this, as a utfudanti They don't have the luxury to act as fiends tranfmif they would touch the fione. From here to all, and the language the matter of things which are contained in the machinery of the world hujufmodi adionobolifmus conceflus ed. What else is this wonderful athmophphaeta to "nUditi tius generation fublunar bifis, nifi radio- eftquhm which one would be permitted to see, fub other than the oval JhilT it would not be seen, because athmofpheera, live fphaera reda because of the rarity of expiration a higher ground, fub obiquiffima the state of exhalation becomes nearer. What gra the road and light movement are one thing, the perennial snow a kind of radiation, while exhalations in ab then diffused, yonder kindling fire pervaded do they shine on their heads? Of which read in No-nonsense art ftraMeteorological Magnetic. What heat mom fire, snow radiation from a fiery body in ad itants fphserice diffuse? In minerals who magnetic adinobolifmos, their what wonderful powers and properties P eat you Artis mdgti& Book II. Bars L do you express yourself in speech? of which, when inte gro work variously, and fuse in Art noftra Ma we'll get rid of genetics, fupervacaneum I will talk about them in a larger place in this place to do Between metals this wonder- it lacks reason at all, not radiation only to found virtues of virtue, fed with material fumes, efflorescence I don't know what to copy the radiation: so go rivers of vitriol, phallus, and nitrite of the city, the snow also flakes in some (they are formed from clay), which expe We decided to check the news. then An experiment. TJ1 X nettle reduced to ashes lye 'Thou shalt make a wonder; lye in this heaven at night experiment in so far, until the skin is icy he contracted, and you will see, a wonderful dkftu, in ipfa I extirpate the whole with ice, and the nettle is perfect: shape, by the guidance of fibers and leaves the ironwork of the lacinioforum, than in the truths of you would catch If you further use fmicrofcopium, vi You must be surprised In the ashes of things years ago men mnium co lores the whole shape of the nettle, ex the smallest, and the infinite fteiluli concrevifle Go there in each another plant I believed that it would happen velhincapparet, in ash in the affairs of the world give side radiation fua afte&ans manna, soda, vitriol, alum cro fcropio infpe&um are nothing else than
it%e bodies of various shapes and sizes. Why? tem nix prsfcrtim ftellata corfucula expri- tfxfleliau mat, various have tried to explain it in various ways. Who-tmi Let Democritus make all things into atoms they contribute, some in the political power of the snow: others, driven by the desperation of the matter so hidden, it cannot be defined at all. We are called This mouse was blown by the snow from no other place come from a warm spirit within the snow concentrated flakes; while they were cold on all sides it will be surrounded by the bodies of the pusher, then give rushing through the gate with a snow-covered body they form a radiant figure which the multitude manifestly demonstrates, the variety of rays: for some have the shape of bent as in B, others in C, some use D. No those who also have such a figure are dead inEpofuimus; there is no force at all; hpc conflating, per but he gives a definite shape to things. Er go a concentrated hot spirit inside the flakes snowy, those for rarity or condescension of matter into figures now other other; everyone yet ftellatas difpefcente. That everything with this experience you will be difficult, for you will be in a futtile fo a lot of ice, of any kind, as much as possible
on a winter's morning, let the waters freeze we find, put it in the middle of this kind of leaf there they were fired with coal, or a ball of iron, can tooth, and soon you will see the heat from the center of the distrust the ice is formed into a crufta feltella. therefore it must be done in soft snow it is How, however, and Cryptallina, and alu- live the minofa bodies in the prisms they would say to the world noftro futter I ran CHAPTER XIII. T)e ejlBinoholifmo Sympathico, otipathico of medicinal matters. more secretive medicine foundation then N no re aftinobolif- the mouse of natural things so it shines, and me in things to the dicinals: for it is here double, or for life, or tending to destruction That you may understand; No but it is safe because of the man mnias have been created, and so also the Angulis in part home powers, with which to strengthen a man "Poffit, concefale elefe: for he who intends to be. he also intends the means to the same con- to produce, such are the virtues of things natural Since then, none in the body He becomes a member of the human body, because you are not suffer infirmities, we have mercy Con ditor Angulis about appropriate measures pro- he looked When even the limbs are at the bottom of the heart pore receflu herb, plantifque unaccelerated they should be established, certain virtues for the exam the glorious rays of light spread over the world, which the whole body passing through the member for part of the fibi correponding aclinobolifmo to penetrate, he turned to concretize. Hence it happens that Medicines of the thief of power explained by the rays that member, that to him in the proportion in which dam nature correlpondet strengthen, con- and they are strong. Yes, I will do all the cardio liver, not liver, not brain, not ple they ask for a fed heart; Hepatic not the heart, no kidneys, lungs, fed liver actinobolifmo confirm: Thus diuretics do not heart, liver, brain, fed kidneys and emulsifying veins, and they desire a heifer. Yes, we are aclinobolism Diaphoretics secrete bile throughout the body tem, compels, in victuals he sees confess Aciimbotifmns of natural things. rum me of cement T T here it is clear, by what reason I composed imbued with different qualities compofiui- ta corpUS as, without any hindrance the other, do not excrement and divert; ray of light they act together. For when the fanciful fpecie- he specifies the virtues of the rum ingredients; on foot reuniting with the first qualities in composition let them remain, it is done, enter in with the same kind of staff a flomachum of medicines, as if in a place na tural, clay; fpecies at the end of any miftura, and by the confluence of rays, as we are attracted by the rays of light; tongues in the limbs in some natural proportion the teeth will be on fire, and they will do this aftinoboliimo They strengthen the effect wonderfully; hence to all strengthened limbs, and natural warmth life is coming; He will not fail to be strengthened, who then it will prevail, only the diseased force ma gis and magifque will fail, I come as in medicine so many different centers of power can be imagined how many species are there? to enter it they burn And indeed many cordial things, all they will radiate to strengthen one heart, pul monasteries; lpecies into one lung, he pacific; ra to be gathered into one liver they will go And I will freeze them as if they were virtues the whole man strengthened, as deadly as It is impossible for him to take advantage of it. Antipathetic but the most destructive of things five venomous happens in this way: some the poison of things soon where in ftomachus When he had arrived, he was ready for action Binoho- heart tanqUam the primary fortress of fibi expu- tipathicKa gnand attack: thus poisonous minerals, Arphenicum, Ochre, Auripigmentum, come whether or not the killer was exposed to radiation infects the adjacent subcutaneous tissue This radiation fixed the fur coat of the neighbor and the neighbor's mud, until it reaches the vitals he refferit, where the snow was checked by an anticlinobolifmo there, finally, the final destruction of man is bent They also have fine limbs fua poison; For a certain aflumtanon the heart immediately, fed the lung ask, to use the lung of the sea was devoured, from which it became ulcerated, and with a corrupted lung, a man perishes hard it is not necessary to perish. Celery sardines to use Tarentula; , I was poisoned by radiation
factories of spirits, arteries, mufculos invading, into the reef, fakus turns the man. Dypfadis morphed and began to radiate, the liver leads to putrefaction. Dog poison rabid radiation fua on canine behavior mother from here he is constantly barking, biting, water that he fears The brain of the cat was pierced with a sword linen wins the character. Schenkius tells about a girl, whom from the brain of Felis, so transf- M! ra, oii He changed, so that everyone imitated him he would return, he would express the voice exa&e, the mice of God to infect the gits in the manner of mowed nails there The poison of Afpidus is an enemy to the nerves radiation fua man stupidity to all He trusted the members of the inductee. So ACfinobolif Mercury's snub-nosed mouse the drilling of the vitals of the man at last completes So you see the different members of the par- tefquediverfa to have poisons, which; everything in the said members not proper fubflancy They act with the diffusion of the power of the fedradiator: to whom yet poisonous; do not encounter radiation poffiint, nifi contrary ipfi fubftantue ra- with a divine quality, to which a poisonous quality he is blinded, and not dung and shadow; and of course the radiation of light by DC radiation fluttered But of this, see the fuzzier treatise The Magnetic World chap. demagnetif of poisoners And from all these It is clear, briefly, that there is nothing in it let the nature of the world shine, that which it does not radiate I will give it by virtue of certain things and from the Author of nature it is betrayed into the unwashed ends of man, and thus radiation to the pattern of light all together; so much so that Letlor using magnetism, thus of natural things aftinobolifmis, from which individuals as two natures; wings easily in the highest of things able to reach the depths of nature. But now you are going back to another pen we turn
part PART TWO ON ACTINOBOLISM Optically. OR ON RADIATION VISUAL, THAT ALL OPTICAL DISCIPLINE ROOT And it is the foundation. PREFACE Um in precedentims de lu cis, shadows, and other things you are surprised by the radiation of rum Jiicis propagandize in diftans tium adinobilifimisfatisfiu- and we shall say, nit re flat, niji, as from Aclinololif- let's say something about my optics. I am not ignorant of it The numerous authors of this Lippis almost Ton- hand over the entire volume to the better-known art, and so deservedly to be delivered of the time in art the most famous of all, they are injuring me with destruction more educated Veruntamen olmurmuraredejinent, where nojlrum in the delivery of the fcopum, propofi- and then return the end intelkxe rint. Not here we intend to deliver the optic, fed only that, when it concerns the radiofam project, art tem, and that not precisely by fe, fed in order to the magic of light and shadow, in which these fce as the foundations of anyone using exo we will produce the effects of things. After leaving you and to those who are commonly taught by opticians, those who are infiitutinoftripropriafiunt, viz. let's advance the optical nobility. DEFINITIONS. I. A Ctinoboiia optica, five radiations viviva, is nothing else, but fumu- tears, fpecierum objeftarumad the fivxpotentix organum fub in the shape of a cone, or abutment of the pyramid II. The ray opW7 is the living ray refta in obj edum, and that normal three times: it is also called from the axis of the cone return to radio III. The ray AaWMi is the ray vivivusfur- the approaching fiim, such as it is during the height mountains, towers, let's look IV. The radius wmmMli is the radius of the former oppofitus, with which from high obj is a delpefta- mouse V. Radius AofowTmos is a living ray i obliquely, fire sideways into the object a tooth A pyramid, or optical cone, is a figure ra folida, than the living radiation from the object let him mold into an organ, whose mustache he produces living things, the apex of the eye is the organ of the eye. VII. The division of the pyramid is called interpo- the fission of the body of the diaphanous intermediate between the eye and the object, five between ver and the muzzle, which is a cone, with the fire of a pyramid fever is made VIII. But call the plane mefophane there is that transparent thing between the eye and the thing a lively interposed plane in which it takes place feftio Seftio afWjK- eft when feftio ad the axis is fiery, when the axis is alive
the pyramid at the corners is made in pla no mefophane X. Seftio ro? olfio- eft, when feftio ad the axis is oblique, when the axis is flat mefophane to acute or dull the corners are made. XI. Obj eft um ofifouw eft bifis pyramim push to the rear axle. XII. The object of the mustache is a bonfire midi oblique, five in the oblique plane fun data XIII The object is the muzzle of the pyramid push radially in a higher local plane. XIV. The object of the profuse con of the preceding trarium, bafin on the floor it is based on something. hypo- ABimboHj) HYPOTHESE S. I did not cut the snow at a sharp angle it is completed; but the shape of the living rays the cone is understood: feupyramis, whose us smoke in his eyes, and his breath at the end of the matter vifts is based on how they see things properly tur, whose fpecies radiate into the eye. Euclid L. i. Opt. II. Maj ora fub major, fub minor minor, fub at an equal angle, equals compare. Eucl. Perfp. common Whence it is close to what which, with the greater fub, is removed from the lesser fub at an angle are seen: and the floors of the temples the teeth appear worn; of planes which lie in the eye of the furthest away from the living optician I i J parts seem to be emphasized, and accordingly the horizon is even more edifying than it really is fft, right-hand lines into finiftra, finiftra against the inclined III. But of the plains, which vifurn in lie down: the more remote parts to the bottom by they seem to slip. IV. Of equal magnitudes, which fub vifurn eredfteconfiftunt, more distant, deeper they appear revealed: against which; fupra vifurn let them reach out; more distant relatives they appear to be relatively unprepossessing. V. Parallel lines in a plane to infinity produQ, in a punfto horizontal line, quot pundtumprimarium, fiyeprincipalea ob- it is said of the opticians, they seem to meet at last CHAPTER I T)e Oculiftrutlura Vifionc. A fertile ass so much fubftantity not at all efficacious experiment the eyes of animals, of man, by experts He taught surgeons the facts; fed this figure, which you see here attached look, where ABCB, hard skins, the form of the vafis all the rest of the interior with it is made of tinentis: but DEF is of another skin the inner, and the deeper, stretched out within the dida the former: ZH, the optic nerve is: compo- you will be stretched out from countless filaments, thence is propagated to the rest of the GHI environment. Where infinite veins, and certain mixed arteries a certain kind is composed of molliiifcuke the flesh and the tender skin of the town fuffining three-way slide they are our fpecies, enter the whole fspace the skins filling the contents, its figures, cu they appear right here, next to the denftatem, or ra fpecies refracting; medium humor Cryptallus, the rest are akin to the waters: the former uneven skin enjoys the environment as in part the two sides your prominence ris: Pellis EFin- worse fuperfi what fun while the eyes fpe- gives, all black it is, and obfuscation and the hole round bet EF, which is a movement volunteered by handfuls, and the smallest of damtendones, filaments BN, origin I am now fringing from the fertile skin of the leader now it can be expanded It seems that the brick is clearly visible on the ground non-circular matter, fed lenticular effe a nature to reprehend things exactly safe By means of these kinds of hnmores fpecies the external transfmifl of things? mind? to the fan they are objected to, and the same profuse ra becomes alive tion, with which the fpecies of colored things lenticular perpupil in place the rum, except the white paper, in We saw that the bottom of the eye was presented; so as a room in which fpecies are exhibited, re- the inner part of the eye, the opening of the eye Crypthalloid lenticular glass pill, re- liquids adjacent to it: paper indeed receiving the small pieces of the bottom of the eye li. If the skin then through the hole pupil lenticular in a dark room on paper all external things are presented fpe you were together with colors and phymetry; thus the radiation of objects into power then the living agent at the bottom like a piece of paper perforamenFF, all living things fpe times, before the aphantafia were apprehended
tur, let them be drawn with colors, and fymme- three universes That I would never believe I will make a certain experiment by fagaciffirao with the anonymous optician first, then the same I am informed of this by a fact of my own accord he will do the thing. P I. Experience sArtkmagm Lihr IL Tars l L L Optical Experiment.
take the bull's eye, or any other I will give it to a larger animal, or even ho threats it has been coffee. This eye was washed by the devil on the lower part of the coat is thicker, and the rest is identified and then to the greater parts you will give it until the water begins to clear. To do this, make a hole in the eye put on, as the outer part, make it illuminated the forerunner rules; in a dark place, my rum didu, any objeda adinobola, five fspecies of objects by crvftaliinos eye-penetrating fluids at the bottom of the eye li fpecies fuas together with colors, figs properly, and naturally so exactly within they will present the spices, as a brush de- they may be seen as pious, yet with a wicked reason; so much so that the demonization of fpecies in obfucuro instead of being represented by a glass pupil with m fpecies at the bottom of the eye through the humors the same thing happens with the intermediate reprofutantiptolii. II. Nov. experiment, mi rum, any objects in the dark presenting Josephus Bonacurfius, next to the nobility and by the honesty of life and the reputation of the dodrin hide we beat the man when he was with me not so long ago of the nature of light, the bus would depart, among other services this is for tilt: pious objects in the dark, not the feces of the middle he would see it crushed in the light. This is the first thing paradoxi indar is held: but sometimes ra tions brought by the thief of alienation, Hatim ap it seemed to be in the least deceptive, because so much for It was based on a false foundation. So huge in the spirit of waiting for the business riurn t preferably with the proceeding experiment a surprising amount of confidence in the mind I would like to see that he brings the proposal to favor; pne- not infrequently com- I perished, nodu fubmde raised from the fire all the objects of the room so loud and clear and they were lighted with a candle, reprovented coward Therefore this good thing happened to the Bo- animated by nacurfii, the experiment I was not so much aware of the truth of the matter, fed and I conclude much from this single experiment di poffe find, which huge light Op tics of faculty, of infallible quseftions fint enodation profiltura. Try it and therefore, curiofe Ledor, this induflria an appreciator In a certain place, which It is very difficult to close it, so that it does not come from any side let some light shine, leave the darkness paper t on which any pictures you will rather paint the shadows of things with fire. Let it be turn the sun so far from the sun as to face it from the sun he can be threatened; At this time the char was fixed with his eyes I will be silent and look into the darkness for a while, I do and let not the bottom of the eye see his image imbibed; then hold the left hand put a piece of candy paper over the eyes instead I will give And behold, I gave him a miracle, on a paper at first you will look like a kind of dawn first crimson, then red, I will soon punish everything (which is in the rainbow) Look at the fat world in terms of color laughs, and desires at last the figure in the south I will turn it into a blue color a very beautiful, intense red milf of will generate The image, however, which first in lu with a black circle, only a yellow one, from the base rede, sometimes the inverse will appear. Which fimulacra finally in the shade denfif- they turn to fire, and are drunk with spirits, fpeciebufque evanefentiens, the image of the ori gin fuas, that is returned to the darkness, the eyes he will flee: and this is a test, that all curious investigators of nature I would like to offer Moreover, how fpecies let them remain in the eye of things, and how they go That raison d'être of colors is protected, he says to render To the first refpond, fpecies the light and color, as well as the images, are the same let the prodigal have an eye for reason, the skin has a light like a stone which book i. chap. Let's write it down. For here A sun-drenched light imbibed in the darkness fub form of red coals often optician, it offends; see the reasons for this matter in the cited place brought So I say it happens in the eye, because the drinks of other images are illuminated by light tarum fpecies, when they are somewhat ob humors connatural to the eye and fur, let him keep it becomes like light received in darkness let him present them also in the dark. Neither whoever here objects to us, I will accept it you are only fanciful: for this the inverted shape of the species But why should it be? turn things around fa to be seen, fe- next demon I filled it with friction I married mouse So let it be eye CD, fun dusoculiE, ob- old sun fought AB That is to say, the cross in the bright window later fat: pu eyeball GH center dempupillI. Si who then du Soleil then, untwisted someone's eyes infpexe rit; fpecies from ob je&o profufae, along the lines AT, BS, in fun while his eyes were fixed on the next object they will depict the preceding experiment; obj edum juxta propof. Par. z. necephalario at the bottom of ST, it will be inverted. Since the pupil due to the strong object of the bright in- fpedion is contracted into the smallest cir- cells, it becomes like the line in you, you also turn away from the things that are out of place. fpecies of rum should be presented. But in the dark when the pupil is gradually dilated, so to speak grace in GH; hence it becomes fpecies from fun let the eyes reverberate through the pupil GH, lines SGM, THN, at any end nefadaremreprefententin paper, as the infusion of the eye appears. But we're running into it in the preceding experiment, fpecies in it write them all down, therefore, and on paper MN, as the figure is clearly striking. They are invertible they will appear on paper. Usually, however to meet with the fubinde, so that even the rede com they save on paper: which then happens, when the pupil is constricted and constricted by a voluntary movement is given: for then, because of the interference of li of these fspecies of the paper the reda will also appear. Diversification indeed the colors occur according to the degree in the pre they were declared by the giving book; for at first
a crimson color will appear, which is caused by the light of the eye lo the abundance of imprefia; by which steps I went and when it is lacking, the color also comes from the crocus red, from red to pink, from this to blue, and finally turning into darkness, and with the light it will fade away. And this genuine vivacity The artifice refers to the eye perseveringly of living things through a single Glass convex in place and in the objects of the paper there is much reproof the joyous flame; remember so many things image by a single convex lens if it happens, nothing else happens but the eyes of the poor I tried to represent the artifice of living things tation And it is done in the natural course of things, with the eye of The perception of j ectarum multimg interven junc varieties, thus into the same tranfmifllone artificial For the eye is male and female the movement of all the orthodromic rays in the objedo reda opofito more clearly diffin give us, than those which do to the sides: the same it is done slowly, by which the pieces are transferred to the paper the closer they are, the more difrent they are, with each obtuse removal of the thing from the same. Because both in slow and cryftal moisture lino, along the axis of the fpecies they suffer hardly any refraction, hence they are exactly painted, but what is the quality of the piece a picture of rum in the eye, such is also done I live bright bright, dull dull. Again we fixed our eyes motionless, Sdnvaria- tus obeda unevenly he perceives vividly; fcure confused immovable convex lens He casts things on the motionless paper pofitaru fpecies effectu quite diverfo. Ratio utriufq; it is that the neighboring objects are to be divided let them throw out their beaks, which are alive or dynately, breath or cry the fthalline is longer, but the remote one is shorter: igi there, when he was in the pipe, let him receive that char this, in the eye of Retin, cannot be done such as a horse and a horse, or a paper, or a net for a tunic let him take the bottle that I drink and the nearest more remote Rurfus made obj edum in di- at last some remotiflimaab eye in any way they are not completely different, so give intromiffion into the fpecies through the lens
there at last is someone so reticent as to fpecies let them disappear completely into the paper; it is given so much he is bound, so that he may never be separated; reason because you have a common moustache, in which you will look well ordered, it falls outside the network for in the eye, outside the paper tube or lens obtenfam ab obj edis distant cis, a ni- to pass by my neighbours. From which it is clear, How fpecies per fin going convex intromifllo, in omnibusrtm' graphically imitating the natural organ of the eye express Whose account from the former is nearly 8c potiffi Len! with imitate the vexation there is an organization whether the eyes He was fittt Myopia tArW magn& Book II. Part
it is best to cry through the moisture phthalinum and female lens and proportioned refraction For these rays are otherwise random by breaking the streams he forces them into order, so he spreads it in one beak, as if painted objects The most beautiful image reflects. In this one ali by which the deformity is found, that the paper of the lens prxtenfa becomes flat, the coat of the eye becomes the retina hollow If, therefore, a group while the Nofterbchcinerus says that he has experienced it The Most Serene Archduke He would make a million, huge, and him you will exterminate the uninvited fpecies of things within concave through a convex lens, he would surely find fpecies near the model eyes, much more diftindtius, more orderly, am to be seen with more passion, than in the fuperficia pla na exhibited. Hence it is also clear how God kindly provided the eye with nature, which fspecier picture not on a plane, fied He wished to order a hollow coat, as He would have helped me more with this account of my life. It is clear x. decluttering of rays in ipfo to be done by the eye, before the image of the object in the net let it be fashioned: all things in a beautiful shape he roared; whose this experiment to light you will be able; fiabrafain bottom of the eye fchierode shine a merciless light through the pupil you wonder, for that is he eats of the book, in the coat of arms you will discover that the tin is falling into the necephalarium; one of in the bottom of the eye supports It is clear that those who live are short-sighted they use a short ftant, and the brain becomes a hollow lens for them to be not to be seen For when ipfi geftent hu Crypthallin custom from small feg- a group of minds whose nature is rays received by refraction within a short to force it, it happens that the image It is indeed a Staccuratiffimam femper pin gant, but who is formally alive to fentbrium, tuni cam vide retina, fxpiffime not affect- four, fed inside the glass abfol vatur, by which it happens that the eye objects or not at all, or he may perceive it very confusedly, due to the common radiation cone, not by any species into common piety they meet, or completely coat the retina it does not reach, or you are already sheltered between the rays of the sun is affected; and the eye of nilfentitnifi that It is offered to living beings, and in that way as offered. If clear, clear, be dimmed, di- In this way, fi confufa are offered, confufa sees. In Myopia, therefore, the subject was removed by fe rays faster lq muzzle the common neck gant, however close, is very hot at a distance gynose; because those fpesiesfuas far away in the beak they configure the quier, hxc into the neighbor: fic that tunic is attached to the retina, hxc vi three are fuftbcant in the middle. Because the lens the hollow has this property, as the rays re it dilates by breaking, and by this means together with slowness Convex fpecies verfus produces a retina, It happened that Myopes was attached to such a small object gie, indeed, to the distant well-seen youth tur smaller, because the angle to the decoupling of my knowledge is produced. In Presbytis, however, five those who look at things from a distance, in the opposite way they proceed It is therefore clear that o culum is slowly convex protected by nothing else than a par-tube a natural, partly artificial tim from the lens a bus adorned with two domes, with humor that is to say, with a cryftalline and a convex fpecillo; but the tube being used for a small convex everything will be seen bigger and more diverse. Experience clear visible to all ad the presbytes found most useful to help, who since they have a very crystalline humor
broad, from the greater fegmentis com agreement, it is made that the objects cie feu a vivid picture beyond the formal the living thing that is: the tunic of the retina, tranfmittant, ficv the power of elu they give: which, however, he accomplishes according to his wish I was the arrival of a convex lens, for hxc fpe- He recalls that night wandering more freely, but which checks between the above-mentioned boundaries See more about this in Magia noltra Cato- ptrica Finally, the eye is slowly convex surrounded by nothing but a pipe partly natural, partly artificial e adorned with two convex lenses, hu more videlyte cryftalline convexo fpe cillo A tube with two convex lenses bus infrucfum effe like a mere eye ar artificial inanimate. Experiments of this kind, therefore, in which nature first paints wonderfully at the bottom of the retinx fpecies of extrinsic things, not faeces, etc on the walls of the dark room, do many things I had a lot of speculations about me to innumerable numbers in natural philosophy riches of myth and sacred nature perished, so that already these experiments the owner of any animal from the farm eyes, I will dignify myself with poffe: fafeini also nature, and the child in the womb with the mother of the characters you are drinking some propin the light animals of the created system nes, and several other things; who is everything, when not of this inftititut, it must be treated elsewhere we see Therefore, a double act of vivification comes together Pyramis: the former extrinsic, which is the most important leaning on the object; the intrench inverts the beard in the fundus of the eye: before fpecies re rum objedtarum potentix vifivx fiftit, hxc more e making the hair more tame and intrepid Tyrdmisvi-in the bottom of the eye, jlixta the optic nerve con- fudn. it came to pass, that the soul of those who live by the spirit you have been awakened to a perfect fanfation, I live nor would he use what was to be effected; the outer mustache is like the inner pyre foreign object of middle color it is inttinfecum; that is the reason why of fpecierum m obfcura reprasfentation in We taught the predecessors, he compares. To whom indeed, in this way, some pro- optical aftinobolism concer spinning, with whom, as if in an epitome, what the nature of the whole optic, and the attachment to be contained to advance the life of God in so many things innumerable paucifli You have written a very clear and concise explanation we would take them with them. So let it be Profit I. All the straight line, which in the plains and hori zontals, iifqie, in which the direElos walls incli and are parallel in the plane: all, in than the adpunftumplain of the mefoptic primary conte? iclunt, from which indeed all things project Bio draws its origin. If the lines land, so the castles directly lie which the primary ray parallels between they affect the valleys in great abundance, with ipfo finally the principal ray, when between fe Affiinobolifmus Opticus, paraiiel? , from every aspect in the direction let them go, there will be a gap between them I gradually reduced the fertile afpcCt, and ip- therefore, the straight lines which are extended in a straight direction to draw the lines finally. With the main truth If the ray falls from the eye, cast off the fat all in a line, as if from circumference to circumference the butts will be seen to converge to the center of the ray, by mortgages and and lower indeed to shine forth, and to be lifted up on high; more distant but as if from a more edifying place in the fubje- to collapse the main beam; which I denied that from the right, to the left, followed by the left, to the right, not to deviate mnes to the principal ray, which the middle it holds its place, adjunct with equal inclination; until with him all fruitfulness was accomplished let them meet, but the principal ray in the folita- the plane of the mefoptic plane fell which we have named the primary one. Ve with this the rum of the whole carp is thrown into the wine it becomes the mind, and all things will go to those who are fruitful to it fubftftant, with more of that demonstration eno I took it to be given. The eyes are formed in A, the mefdptic plane HB E, lines directed with the eye objefteBD, EG, infi nite produ&s, but the mefoptic plane ad
both BD and EG become straight, and in that first of the sea Punishment K, I say, tell I will return riearu BD EG, project from at the ends punftis B E, for following ffi to the point Marius K, fi bi mutual bmohftrd- that (In the ttiterfe&ib- Rs s read e) to compete, what? all parts demon we will break Let BD, EG, be watery, then they will be DX, Sc DG, iplis BI, BE, equal and parallel by x. Euclid wherefore by DG extent the mefoptic plane BHE can be given, paral this, indeed, and the table, when the diofafuperficie D AG, will be common fe- ftions DG, RS, parallel by Euclid Wherefore I triangu, because of my lowliness lorum DAX, &RAe, eftutDA, adAR, so DX, to Re. But AD, rather than AR, major therefore DX, this is BI, the same Re it will be greater; ideoquelines BR, &Ie, produdt? sometimes it is convenient, namely in K, which so it is often denub For &Re, ipfi DX, ideo between fe are parallel by i, Euclid. erit because of the triangles B KI, RKe, the affinity as BK, to KK, so BI, ad Re: when it becomes DX, ipfi BI, equal will have the same proportionDX, adRe, how BI, to Re, by Euclid Utterot) X, to Re, so is DA, to AR, and dividing as DR, to RA, so BR, to RK, and the former is an angle lus ARK, corner DRB, asqu alisper football cold therefore by squiahguia are triangles ARK, anglefq; KAR, angleBDR, equal therefore, AK is parallel to BD, by x Euciid. Therefore AR will be the ray of the prince palis, K where BR, le, meet, punch primary. ES, also at the same point ca dere so demonltro For as DA ad AR, so BK, to KR, as DA, to AR, so Gt, this is B, adRS, it will also be as BK, adKR, so Q BE, ad III The great book of art II. Farsi L BE, to RS; ES, therefore, will fall in K, which it was to be demonstrated. This propofition is due to nature he raised his eyes in the inflr ument, somewhere I decided to propose. Let this be done first with a wooden square A, M, B, SS, whatever is great, which is affixed to a certain tabube ob- longx, live parallelogram ad return angles in MB, while the table is long into any number of squares the fig is divided figure teaches; let him have a log CN the same with a square wooden height any direct difference from the square, that C the place of the eye of the principal point; which mefoptic plane wooden wire; oh primary pound With these thus prepared, ap folded eye to pound C, refpicein KL, and a wire is drawn near the vine PQdta as a thread, and the line KL, in the same plane do not pretend According to the same ratio, the rays in HI ten the thread RS is drawn to the teeth, in the thread AB, near the rays comprising C the line FG, the wire TV is drawn, in the draw AB, and from there draw as many lines bring down the leaders, as many in the plane of the rays of life the bus will include squares, and it will be MB, common fatigue of the projected lines in feneflella AB, linearum dudarum in ta horizontal bubble; from now on smaller and smaller ones will come, and while in let them come together in the first place. So you see. parallelograms MK, BL, horizontal plane ineas in feneflella pound O, fire pound primarily, a line; horizontal, with an eye C in it then quickly the horizontal line conflicted at last they will come together, so that consequently they excel nothing operation of a more natural nature, and this intrumen- then in seeing he demonstrated, as in which the entire fccnographic, optical ray proper is explained. I Cpliiges at first from hifce vifual rays to infinity for d pticum to be made MOBZKL, whose boundary efl the horizontal line, ej each half py living branches And the square will be MB SE, in feneflell MXYB optical projection, also throw out the square of the rest rum SG, FI, HI, they will refpond with squares in feneflell optically proj edis XV, TS, RQ I gather from this inflrument, how is it to be done, that all diredjelinex tan then in O, the principal pundus, which fem through, the eye and the eye, in a horizontal line must be included in the conflict. In the third place, you will gather how from the rays of the sun to the vifuals in infinity for dudis, the first of which d give the optical conflruatur. like this OMB ZKL, the boundary of which is the line OZ, the horizon
such; and in the same way as the same half of it becomes a living pyram, fertile I would like to split the price: that everything here is more we wanted to deliver geometrically and mechanically so that in this single propofition whatever in the whole optical fuse, fparfim is delivered, here (you have a harvest where, however with the briefest propofitions We will explain the matter better and more clearly. Profit f. An object radiating into the eye, in the mefopticofeu interpophaodiaphanous plane, which is parallel to the object lum Jh, cauf at fe Bion of the pyramid, indeed a smaller object, but in all respects similar. It object objcStm y&iw ABC trian- the throat of Ifofceles; in Diaphragm therapy whether DFF, eye I mean faith DEF is indeed a smaller triangle with radii GDA, GEC, GFB, by, fed by the triangle BCA, draw side of the triangle ABC, of the triangle DEF, on the sides bbjettum SpecicrHm biphilia mircc system Aciinobolifmus Opticus i it was homologous to the and fedio bafi paniam for fedio efi bafi pyra- rallela, they will be finished by n. proportional triangles z. Euclid. the figure of the fimiies, and the proportioned ones are not at all puffy; therefore you will not burn; so, indeed, sides by sides, rays by rays. Owing to therefore, indeed If the object, the 'welvection', was either one or the other loxotomum figurafdlionis ik plano me- foptically, it will appear like a flame of fire a similar object Let there be a living figure of the pyramids proceeding; G A B C, feclio D E F, mustache B C A clita, five abcedat from the parallelism of the flagellum. I say that the figures are also intet fe improbable; where- therefore they are unlikely which was to be proved. it must be said, "Fi fi bafis refla, fi fidio" it would be loxotoma. Profit V If the object was a circle, meffe the hat is a parallel object to the body to be born, in it, like a fetus of a circle he will express the light. O It objedum DE, eye A, adinobolid vifivaADE, fedio BC Because therefore radiation produces a red cone, but coni redii bafi parallela circulosjuxtaea queg Apollo lib. I demonstrated, let it happen; will be Sc the same from the hollow figure BC, in the plane optical circle; which was to be proved if In fact, it has been used for various purposes jedione cone, various ellipse, parabola, or hyperbole. Profit V. If it was an oil jet or whether the mefoptic object is parallel; will be (t fetlio in the realm of planofimilis objetlo; the mefoptic plane is not parallel They would also be difficult to figure out. Since the reason for this matter becomes the same as that in advancing propofitions shown The same must also be declared we do not want to tarry; bakery, tj' x hifce is clear, first Iate so many divers the pyramids of rum are radioactive, fubquot the corners of the object seem to be edu. If therefore obj he was a human figure, the extremity of the figure of the ra dians struck the same fire into the eye; whose faiths and manners I fade into a human figure protect five regular, five irregular, transformed So the end of the pyramid having for a muzzle the figure of a dog, in plains of casts for different fe- dione, the figure of a dog diverfimdde effigy bit Not the feces of the rest of the living obj push each one to argue. Yes for the radiation of objects is unknown he would leave the fada in the middle of the pyramldem viffi bile, infirm and false, the thing that you breathe he would leave the shape of a pyramid. Since then he becomes capable of infinite faiths I now imagine the same thing in countless numbers redo now Obliquo, modovniforrnes, mo do difiormespro various fcdion, as we said they would rebuff Hane's optical property In many respects nature was able to be imitated is given For in the field of plants, a tree and with the marrow, some figures were drawn from it to portray; with which I figure in the clay Roofs Thyrfi compare, because of the fibers of the veins which a long time ago; cujufmodifequens efl experiment; Experiment ISLaturx Opticce, iHclricis. A Take the cylindrical cylindric fern groffioris, and him around the root in you repaired several pieces, and in clay the plains of the fairy tales; who does not know
they will either be circles or ellipses; as out of fear the cylinder is clear; ai the nature of the Imperial You will find a picture in the north; for the fiber, through I fear some fuceum, but it is easy to nourish then the plant draws it, so d nature difpofitg the rope I make a fertile length, so that through it make an optical cylinder. Like for the pyramids, the optical cylinder, cu Aquila's mustache would be right, in any part He will be faithful to any part of the middle Aquila to form; so I do the fiber dido. Before for several years, with the fibers of the bush tZq. Artis magm Book fars in the various fe&ions of the trees, in order to the magnetic botanists fcrutarer, in the Willows quoquefe&ion He was referring to the image of a twisted person I killed than in all the rest find a bus; it is to be seen in the figure propped up. Of which there is no other reason, of course those which we have said, of the fibers He was buried in Ipiras. I do not doubt it the experiment was smoked in other trees and plant fermentations, and innumerable other things nujuf ra to be found. So in a certain pine tree parts of a dead man's skull I remember the perfect outline of my creeping laugh. He who has penetrated these things more deeply, the method he will easily find out which of the various torfione conftrkftione thyrfi aiicujus to sketch a given image in it be worth it But of these elsewhere. See also what dehifce, in part, in the Magnetic Art, chap. of The magnetism of plants, partly in Magia lu cis umbtE rractam ARSSCIAGRAPHICA or On the natural outline of things. CHAPTER n On the organic delineation of things. PROBLEM Inflrumentmi Mejoptlcum ctmftrulre.
which is not without difficulty. Only this of us, though the most complicated of all, On the fire ro diver audio channel different organs season them with whom of things wherever the deli of the fitupofites complete the denials rent Sportula Du- many people like not difficult rolofii menfa opti approx. it has fuos fufus parallelogram CH Scheineri, et ti neither; Dantes too various barbarians of this meal Na they delivered, fi Vmainflrft none of them men(a 0{tiz however, the polygraphic business is expeditious. I found mum. when there is no the light Now it happens that I am an optical adinobohfm ius report. This, therefore, is almost infinite then it is necessary to make clear in a few words, if not anything in the art of light and shadow we may be seen as omifile. conjlruBio First let the parallelogram ABCD be ZeftftlcL four bricks are closed with each other fum, whose sides AB, &CD are five; A. C verily BD, let them have four spans the character to this the fubtiliflim veil, and profus diaphanous they are fond of using papyrus to seal their faces, be obtained Second, in the pound E, side CD, log lum tranfveifum, mobile, feucurfororga ni, so transfixed, as for the machinist's ar the vitreous was now protracted, now retracted. In F, but in the putrid curforis EF, another stick GF, tranfverfumagatur, so brick EF, in carried, as necessary for the things to be drawn He was able now to be raised up, now to be let down; and I would have a perfidious intrument, as the figure teaches. Multiple and impressive mind The use of this weapon is so extensive, shallow, as almost none in the whole ca, five theorem five problem occurs, that the theory of this intrument does not con to hold First of all, to the eye of the shows the nature of the optical ray, luminofi&: dark, to use shadows, and others the reasons for all the projections, as it will be clear to the expert examiner. Himself cundo, given any object, five id a figure becomes, five body whatever', five bottom go, five ftatua, five houses fine or tem a plum, a city, a field, a fylva, a mountain; all of them by no means with the help of this tool the natural, by which they are objected, the deli- thirdly, with the help of this instrument wonderful metamorphosis of objects fess, and so much so that they are all prodigious you will complete the drawings of the clocks. True so that in the fertile it becomes so much more expedient pain, as much as possible
paradigms of greedy things propofit we will give some de- But the delineation of things in three ways lineation, or- jnditui poted: or orthographically, or fce- velfciographically. spelling I'm going to write this article through graphics we say fi cent, when the object is five to draw things parallel to parallel a mefoptic gram, five veil, made he obtained and make the facades of the houses towers, temples, and whatever you return let us draw it up to the eyes of the gods. everyone is godly five fceno-
graphically delineated, to which the likeness on the screen we are supposed to paint. Scenery we say a drawing, with an object Xophane, draw the object with a slanting fire the mouse, cujufmodifunt, which in the oblique hour zontis fitopofita are ordered to be drawn, or in a vertical plane away from the bus We say sciographic when we project we are commanded to cast the shadow of any body draw, then between the log GF, ve lum, the body should be delineated fciographically nor should But in all things you object, in whom bus with the greatest transformation of things we had given the paint, first the spelling the thing in the object to be transformed in the veil to be depicted ed. So, now, you are going to make a garden for them iple drawings are ordered. Profit F. Given any shape of a polygon, trilateral square, five regular, five irregular in the mejoptic veil, then fceno- then to draw graphically, orthographically. For this reason, everything is geometrical the plane must be cast, a few days later be sure now for what reason Let's see if they can finish it graphically. And before I am indeed a certain object or something he trusted to draw the figure graphically he will draw a parallel veil; fi fcenographically away from the horizon, or the vertical plane, will explain When you finish the log lo EF, for the size or smallness of the image if thou wilt thus establish the intrument in my place, so as not to be removed from the same for any reason gat Then he applied the eye to the hole, five extremity G, the GF, and the hand quiecente fupra wood (which two ful cris supported by the sides given the annexed works fuftinetur) near a long time alive in shape I objected to be addressed in the ipfo veil, red, chalk, or any other fabric coloring matter, however, it was easy to destroy, the figure beyond ve I'll throw a light on the screen with no problem you write And this figure in the web optically I will write it down in this way. For with a pencil li extremity of weight with weight G, eyes fat, piled objedsfiguraj in it dem femper fint line, fi necellario in the web The optical projection will be drawn when such nothing else is to be reprehented but the faith of to return to the branches, or obliquely from the fpecies I object to the radiant in the eye: which indeed I'm tired, it's been reded in the pyramid rededa, figu A quick and easy-to-use scumbag will be the object of the object. become but the pyramid of the pyramid was filled with disgust that incident; or I burn it obliquely on the pyre in a terrible incident, in the veil of the image juxta ra optical representation of the pyramid He will be tempted. But the matter is demonstrated by example mouse The great book of art II. Part III mus. to be lined, the mefoptic screen is parallel to the quadrilateral ABCD, eye in I say i square outline both, and on the screen of the painting together with the figure Eagle: inscribed with the same, logammoAB Aquilam aquilg con- often the sides FH, CG, are broadly parallel ribus AB, 8c CD. For they are led from G, connecting the points of both parallel logram, and let the pyramids be GACBD. Pa tet luculente from lib. Euclid. Himself ction or the bisector of ABCD pyramid FHverb&CG, be parallel ABCD parallel ABCD, as it were, will be the son. And so the bisector of ABCD, has sides FH, CG, homologous to AB, CD: and because AB, CD, are parallel to the sides FH, will also be the son of ABCD, and sides parallel to the sides. What was de- to be shown This is also true demonftratareperies lib. x. chap. x. prop. Confelis the candle. TTIncpatet, the fiprototypici Oedipus was
parallel, similar figures too he will be found guilty, he will be taught to use the evil ones Propofitiol The leafy body was propped up to outline A Pplicato eye to the pound A, the body an object on the mefoptic screen juxta du I lived on the crest of the ray, which formed the lines of the body of the term let the swimmers fall in line with the design, and you will have fever Let the body be the prototypon cubtts ACDS inftar puteqedypon in V, in veil feu to draw weapons; A, indeed, the weight of the eye: I mean, applied to the eye at the end of the log, the brush will go forward for a long time the shape of a cube, the shape of a cube ACDS. a tall man: for you have connected the pun Gis Cubi CADSVIjCum From the weight of the eye pyramids, whose base VBOT, with parallels, the muzzle is made the same, and the sides also with the sides they will be parallel and homologous; therefore also eat Scidgrphid. i vj ectypon BOT, for a tall type which was to be demonstrated. This dress although another leafy figure, whose kind the shape of the cross is radiif and viable in BDCE, cru points cis you direct the figure of the fish in the mefoptic veil GFHI theme, you will outline. Qonfettarium I qka ratio- -jv bis yeluti foundations is clear, which ra- tiaTpifai- tion of all kinds of pictures, with the help of this They want to be delineated by the empire, even from the im- m peri0 pidurse; be applied to the eye 'proplfiZs to the hole A, brush next to the vivid image ddineare nem prototype terminating radius pro- It was done; for it will be left in the armor of the veil of fire mefoptico defiance. Confeoidrium II. on his own account C intrumentum this in a certain publisher In this way, if you exhume the whole citizen, use eofitusalic let the state of the city appear from every side, even in the veil {ptifrprZ fcenographically fertile all the towers, he can do it. temples, palaces (applied to the eye at A, the end of the log GF, and the pen I fell into the prototype with the hot rays of the sun tis proceflum) the most perfect fymmetria ad you will write down the shadow. I finished aria his rathne T-JTIRC is clear, in what manner of cities, camp- aliturum, fylvatum fatus commodiffime, ;us fertile natural power in the veil he puffs can be squeezed out The truth may be asked here, not to mention the registration of things on the screen finished transferring to paper fint? Ref It is thought that this can be done in two ways. Pri with the punctuation of a needle: what will be done, become a veil You will apply the prepared paper and j according to the definition of paper points impref- you are wild Secondly, the drawing has been made it is called a kind of rubric, a kind of lead; you will have the said sooner requested, fi paper first moistened with fuperimpofita veil you will be broken; for a veil of every color inhering together with the things delineated at will derive the tract in fe. Pfofofitio IIT The dimensions of all things to complete with the help of an intrument. C It height and width of the thing to be stolen CB, BD, and it becomes only one pale known in the line CB, fcilicet CI. You will know the height the length, breadth, and parts of the tongue the proportions of the intermediates to each other, and Finally, you will have to know the quantities you For when A becomes an eye; GFHI film squinting at the object it will be the face of the pyramid ABCDE, the feu which it is the same, the figure of GFHI, delineated on the screen, daughter; liS femilis proportionata figitimBCDE la tera homologous proportionals GH, to GF, so CB, to BD, commuting, as GH, to CB, so GF, to BD; and again, it is done AH to GA, so AC to CB; therefore finish three times, the total surface area of the triangle HIA, Qd fuperficiem HGFI, so ACE to CBDE. Therefore, everything is proportional; therefore I cog test one of the mantle at the height of CB, knowing the rit the whole height CB, in the line ectyp GH. Si- for the skin GB, to GH, thus the first palpus CI, adHK. Now let CI be the tenth part of CB therefore &HK, the tenth part of HG: therefore the height H G, will be known. As, therefore, it was discovered that it was high the whole menfura is common to the parts of the whole of CBDE, so HK will be common Menfura parts of the fuperficia Ergo when one is known, all are known together quinterquantitates fuperficia CBDE, fe
whence the breadth, the length, the inclination nation, Qonfetlarium From these it is clear, by what reason alone with immovable height and breadth lingular parts of any fabric Let us know the fathers, as long as they are small ma part of the height, or of the width, or between a fence of two col umnas in the device of the cog it is done By this technique the height of the Cupula; St. Peter, knowing the height of the column of one of the jis which surround the Coronides. about a foot of Geometric, from the bottom of Col beginning with the Roman law, together with the latitude Artis magne jBook Part we find that in front of It must be offered, however, this difneitfiro- let the elf be the least permitted, the snow in the greatest for this is a scarcely fensible error commissions: the nearer you are to the matter to be torn; so much the greater the errors, I nifi with art mejh if you rush, it will be necessary to commit there is no other reason for the matter, the nifi then some so much greater de-" it ends, the closer it is to the bath, the more the smaller, the higher; from where three times a well-known menfura in some places, in the rest it cannot at all be equaled by the broken parts. At a greater distance, however, when the angle of vi- fivus, with all its height and length it seems to be stolen, it becomes very sharp, the other parts too are barely noticeable they will have a quality difference. On this account but I will also measure things out of propinquity with which he wished to be found, a few bees to be laughed at First, it is known from the frequent with the propofitions, which the figure which was painted I like Geometry: in Optics, I do the opposite Optics can be reduced to geometry there is no optically projected line, whose value tes perredublio to the line of the geometer cam not pofllr to be found; which indeed they teach the leadership Atquehiceft the first method. Another method it is done by Arithmetic, which some ex it is better to make it clear that it is alive. Let it therefore be the height BC, twelve spans; but the height EBjiq. . pedtimfub compre- at the same angle nc, height, diftantiis columns ejuf- henfa, diftantia AD, palms. Which g ritur diftant of one from the other Let CB to BA, so ED, to DA, And the quotient will give AD, a by which fu b drawn AB, give remaining bit BD, B D spans: &ft let it be AB, adCB, so AD, ad ED, it will be clear that the height is unknown tudo ED, i of spans If indeed it was high I give some things to be stolen by chance, so pretend You will find the dimensions of the parts. Let them be parts of the mold CD, and the rest of the eight palm rum let it therefore be as CA, the diftant note u, v g. pafllium, to the whole, so CD, oclo of the palms to the tangent of the angle D AC, pro- and the tangent will give the degree of the angle the amount of profit Let it be again, as AC, z. the whole end was left, thus CE, i pal behavior towards the tangent, and the tangent will come out EC, whose degree will give the quantity E AC, from which fi the angle D AC, fubducas, will result lia redlt angle EAD, somewhat smaller than the former, Bion's jtgtih a smaller thing will also be seen and indeed so much smaller, as the matter was my father it will be seen at the right angle. Not a faeces of any kind. you will proceed to invent the corners. You would really like it to have the quantities of fub known as deep angles understand the operation of the op- preference: how much would you like ED, compared to DC: let it be AC, ftnus to tus to i. palpus, thus touching DC, to another ABinobolilpnuS S'ciagraybicusi
it will come out with a blast, for example, between nenda fpatium Again, as the end of the whole AC, to i z papulus thus touching EC to another, for dibit fpatium EC, aquo CD known fubdudta dabitED, a dirty mark. The same judgment it is made of the ioxodroma projection. The truth about this a wonderful reduction of optical quantities to a geometric quantity, when the matter is fub- tiliiTima occurs, and especially in Architecture, Pi when the riaque has its place, elsewhere from the proffess we will deliver Why only mention it here? let it flow And these are the things of this mefoptic man let the plane dictate Who more had trusted the interests of the right of infteument, this Gno monica noftra, and the magic of light um let him come to the brae, where the truth and hidden of this
txfum will find no end of surprise. True since not all are of this kind let them have at hand, by what reason Gemstones can also be completed in geometrical terms we will teach them briefly. CHAPTER II r. rf)e projeffiionihts feenographlcis geometrically expediting T fufeepti service nego- somewhat more fortunately give way, some Hebrew let's send the information ftren, tx, turo ambm- science while, therefore, two principally Exifter worthy of being noted for mvifion. is the fimulacroruius appulfus to the orga? whether, whence the various adfpeChiS come, par partly true, partly fanciful: on both sides It has been said to the previous ones. Aletrius eftphdn- the product of the coffee is bent over, with the object of which I will give it plain: for it is the place in which the matter tafiaprofufa fell, a certain figure from there is what we call a projection it is done as if it were a thing, with power and efficiency afpeftaus projected to the plane in either direction. Some of this They also call it a section, because it becomes a com the killing of the plane and the living by the thing fpe&atam of incidents; with which they also speak in this way they call those figures which they are made of cones or cylinders, of which in In the next book, more will be given to say ma teria Projection is therefore nothing else than what happens fuperficialis, autfolidse figure on a plane. transfer To which three points must be made they are, first of all, cefalaria: the matter is thrown out must be: the eye, from which the optical rays reach all the propofit parts of the thing flash: plane, in that the matter ipfa through the production of radios will be transferred I will therefore mark them properly I figured I'd throw a metric let us prepare a few things. Where do you go? let me be, Note, in every optical business two fspaces flat, four-pointed, two points conifide- randa The first plane is called natural fire phyphic, let it be that plane which I desire cas projecion i inferted There is another option when the plane, as it were, the optics projection; we fixed it with letters AftCD, thisEDCF. There are four linear types: rae, a horizontal line, a radial line, a line The line of the earth is efbline, which is the mustache of the plane optically, use the CD line. The horizontal line is the line of equidiftfts line? CD of the earth, terminating the optical plane, of any kind is the line AB. A radial line is said to be that which is certain to draw an optical figure at a certain point to the horizontal line, to the punfinirn, which It is said that the main line is drawn. NM. FM There are five diametrical lines, which are drawn from certain points of the desired shape ce to be drawn in a horizontal line, in pun&um, which is said to be the punftum of the eye, cu The lines NR, CR, DR are of two kinds two pounds of the best in the options to be trusted: the main point, that the letter M is fixed: and the point of the neck is lig born literaR, which femperin the line of the hour they use zontal conflict. Propolis Artis magna Book iPars II Profit I. Given a punBo in the geometric plane, punBo principal& puriclo oculi3 to find the punSiutn in the optical plane. C It geometric square NOPQftn where Z is punished, O is punished culis R, the principal M must be punished in to come, this pundtum in the plane of Phyficus AB CD, in the main penalty M, line NMS OM, then the arc ZV is drawn from N through Z punished aflimptum For from the punished f you will draw a line in R punished by the eye, feca bit that NM, in the punitive C, quaffed point, and thus the NZ line in the Geome plane tricot will refer to the line NC, in the optical plane: hac all things are punished by reason, and the lines are on a different plane with which you will fix the geometrical data on the plane optically, the demonstration of which is from propofit. i V K, iii-L IIUClU jpidlHJ JT Liy JULL. U ix D i P X CD: they are led from the NO, the pundt lines of the earth intruding the mefoptic clear. Profit II. Given the optical projection of the square, in the square an eagle Q It given the square NOPQin proce- the shape of the tooth given the punishment of the eye R, in the main M, it will be optically projected as follows: They are drawn from punisNO, intervals NP, OQmrcus occulti PS, QN: when finished are drawn from NO, radial lines in M, Diagonal ex punitive SN, punished in R
eyes, &ubiSR, &NR, doingNM, &OM radials, punished there by being fixed; which con- i uniting the straight line, they will give a square the optical DENO, whence: he will reply and ND, to the side of NP, and EF, or EO, to the side OQ& the side DE, the sides PQyNO but the side is common to both. Reason the hair is from the bottom of the nose no, I am writing a book, in which there is an optical space ACBD, the curtain raised vertically, NOP will refer to the Geometric Square together with the figure inscribed at the plane of the hour zontal reitum: but the eye should be washed with in dioptro G, tigilli GF, so fpacio from the veil plane, how much is this punished R, punished by M; The log must also have a height BD. perfect eye is from G, infpicien- tem through the veil, the square fire of Geome tricus NOPQ, in the quadratic optical fspace then AGAIN, optically drawn, not fe- why and here you see failure: see Propofitio- advancing, where everything was more you will find it shown. Qonfeffiartum Q who further in the geometric square what would he paint; Aquilo was punished three times looming in the optic square the same protuberance they were to be found in the manner in which the propofition he is a god But this is clearer in the paradigm they appear to you This is the most common profile profile. IWJ The number of radial lines, than a confluence of diagonisms which is easy to find in the punishments lime, and you attach it with a great saving of things two foot-strings of the principal M, And with the punishment of the eye R: for the first of these be four points drawn in the geometrical plane, that is to say, NO, but the other is false The optical points of the SN will be extended the optical plane at the points which are straight con together they will give the propofition made ipfa threads are represented by SR lines, Profit III Draw a triangle, W square, that removed in the geometrical plane it is made from the line of the earth For example, given the triangle ACD, to be projected optically. Let them be led first sArs Sciarrdbica
from the angles of the triangle ACDB, lines, perpendicular to the line terr. And fint ver bi grace, hidden lines ES, PA, PK, GV Second, from the punites EP G, interspace ED, PA, the arc of the hidden where: on the line of the earth they will end in the punits The third point is GPE, in point Radians are trained. Then from the points ar whose KiHG, the diagonals are drawn in M. Where for they have done the radiating, there they have been punished Ition lines of reiteration combined will give trian optically projected throat, Videlicet MNP, what was sought: the reason of all of them, as before, it is clear from the mefoptic intrument he proposes. I. go ahead From this it is clear that when every triangle di- becomes the middle of the parallelogram qua- hm paralyzed wire Y S C D, in the optical square of the logarithm rj f0ym by drawing the line 1H, parallel! m tm' linen of the earth: for when this is done, it will be a square optically projected, which it was repaid Through the threads also in the points L, M, tied together, you will very easily procure the same. Profit IV. To delineate Bjoomb optically, Rhombo Q Given the rhombus ABCD, cipale E, 8t punitum oculi ita earti you will draw The first lines are drawn perpendicularly diculars to the line of the earth from the lingulis rhom two terms CG, AB, DE; 8c from G, intercape-, dine GC arcUs CA; from A, at a true interval AB, arc BI; exF, and finally in the interval FD, the bow of DI, they were cut off, then from the punishments F, A, G, in F, radials, through punita IE A, dia- you will produce gonias in O, the punishment of the eye; feces they will be punished so that the optical rhombus of the FGMA qussfitum The system is based on in- mefoptic fire Idiri will be easy to overcome I was fastened by strings in F, and punished with a whip geometrical and optical extenfa, to use in the first We have taught it to be done by propofition. Profit V. To project the circle optically. O It circle A, to be projected optically. Pri you divide him into every part, and through the lines perpendicular to the line three times ras to be erected, as in the preceding fa- R so lb The great book of art II. Part I love you. Then, to lead the bow, take it apart according to the normal rules, by which fi do they draw three diagonals from the line? in pun
while the eyes T, in the points perpendicular rium in a line with three radii in V, notands- that of murders: for by these things Figure will give what is drawn; as in example is clear. Profit VI. A regular optical projection of the body. ip Rimo's beard given to the body, bi, you will project optically near propof. Himself cundo, after this, take the perpendiculars the matter of the height of the body, which line For example, the soil must be covered with soil D: Errurfus in any fspace I doubt other ae as in A, so that the line AB, parallel to DH, normally, the heir becomes the heir to the land line. Then the third point from the extreme points of AB at any point of the horizontal lines in any case, let the lines be drawn in a pound, for example C, and fint lines AC, CB. Fourthly, when this is done, draw out the mustache points figure DEFG, optically projected to be led to line terrs, which end in the line AC, pa- rallelsEM, or GM, &FO Fifth, exile at the points MO, erect normals to the line, terrs AD, which terminate in the line BC, and the lines MN, OP Sixth, from pun push NP, parallel lines are again drawn to the line terrs, to which finally, fi ex pun push D, G, E, F, the figures of the mustache perpendicular you will lead, they will make the lines NL, PK, in the pun push, which returns, let the heart be conjoined pus given opticeprojedum, of any kind cube Profit VII The tetrahedron optically projects jets as one plane to inject punishment. p Rrimo is assumed to be one of the tetrahedral ribus for the Geometrical plane below li neam terrs, as in the example, below the line HA let ABCD be an equilateral triangle, a line difting, or not difting.
x. This triangle is projected optically next to him and it takes place in the optical plane ABCD It is transferred to the terrs line from which any weight, for example H, line CD, or AD, or DB, (which are sharks, are led from the center of the square triangle in the geo plane metric of these I say one is transferred from H, in I Then from H, draw the HS line through infinite perpendicular, and intercepted by one of the sides of a square triangle in the plane of the geo metrically, for example AB, from pound I, in li neam HS, for example, is transferred to K; ha- and drink a certain height of the figure a plane From where HK, they are led in what bet pundumlinef horizontal, for example L, thus the lines HL, KL. Let ACB be drawn from the points of the triangle in the optical plane to the line HL, parallels AM, CO, or BO. From where MO, they are drawn to be assessed culars ad linea terrs, five parallels ad HK, which will make the line KL, where NP from which again parallel lines are drawn hidden to the line terrs. Where did these fe- draw perpendicular lines from the angles A, C, D, duds, there will be pundas, which you return joined together they will fasten the body, which the arms it was necessary to throw away the given form. propose Sketch Propolition VIII. Given a square shape with cells bottom gine placed within them, I will describe the figure Eagles prophesied in another square optically, together with the figure, which I am worthy of it doesn't pop, I'm sure it's a snow eye with a pinch Let ABC be a geometrical square D, to whom the Eagle is here inscribed is thus optically done to be thrown, so as not to be punished with certain punishment given that it can be seen, work in this way. In some on a flat wall, or even on the horizon such, let the line IS; at the end of which I, other let the line AB be drawn at right angles, given to one of the sides of a square, so ex the third line AB, from the middle line IS, equidif- tent This AB, therefore, is divided into as many parts vifa, into how many square sides is divided; then de ex pundtis AHIKB, mediifque fpatij s du sing a line? in S. Then the length becomes culineaSO From O, verily, in B, a line red is drawn, and where those lines AS, HS, IS, KS, BS, killed, from the same points li and we will have the lines parallel to AB an optically rich square on the wall, or pla not horizontal, to which it is in proportion of the squares corresponding to the square ge metrically, the shape of an eagle is always inferred bes For if this figure is in the vertical plane li, you will draw five on some wall, then with the eye in O, Ityli SO, the wall was normally fixed ap
pleats, an eagle in its natural shape to use in a square will appear. No faeces bet you refer to other figures optically, which are from a distance confpe&ae, nilnifi confufum, but po fit in O, they will refer to the natural shape. But these things are vulgar. Let me note at this point: on some floor the said figure is diffipanda fo ret, then in the geometric square ABCD, Aquila rta is to be drawn, as the body of Aqui lie in the square ABCD, the horizontal lines it normally sneezes: next to this draw it tion of the Eagle in the grid of the triangle SBA, it would be necessary to draw It will be seen on the plane the horizontal figure of an eagle, divided from O, at the point of Ityl SO, perpendicular to the horizon I inherited it visually. Profit i. e. in another geometrical way to transform The third way. And so the figure of an eagle was to be transformed into a certain mefoptic plane AB i Descriptive quadrilateral CD, within me- optical AB around the image of Aquil? and then it is produced into smaller rectangles on both ends of the sides cular to the muzzle, five root plane mefo- ptici, HD in I, CX, in Y: then from K. ter mino, a normal line is drawn in E KI, KY, produced ad infinitum. Then by the last pundtaex of the remaining lines K, the lines produced to infinity will give fpa- cium, within which anamorphic lines, five the transformation of the figure must be done. a Then all the vital radiation from E, per the mefoptic plane is propagated into the plane the horizon is projected by this art. Height Transfer EK from K to L, and the line KL becomes ae such as the lines KE, and the lines KI are normally low ftat: the line HI, from punfto I in M, pro leaders along the line IM, lines KL, parallel, sides of one HD square image with divisions from M transferred in line am MN, as indicated by the points M, P, QN, through which they will draw straight lines from the L point side KIR, at the points through which to the beak YI, the mefoptic plane AB will give two parallel lines quadrilateral image redtse, on a horizontal plane with all with the red rectangles, as it appears, transfor the mat Enter what is like a grid I will give an image of Aquilina next to the image nis prototypes graticulats ratio painted, you will have the transformation R maginis
Art ScidgraphicA. i l a little bit of magic. Whose demoiitratio or The exipfa ftrudura is clear. The same mechanical transformation by light. The second method. Q features of the image of an eagle in pl-ano you pierced mefothetically, and in E the light of the eye betlurnen through the holes on the plane and the transformation of the aquiline image in fpacio with the same profundity which a little before it was described geometrically mouse in the same space. The same transformation through the shadow with the help of in- the corn of the Mejopticians. The third way. Q I the mefothetic plane AB has been dia- bread, to use as an intrument mefoptic, thus the transformation of the image you will make it through the shadow. The color is sharper painted on the screen any shape, as hlcA- which, in such a way as features on a transparent plane slightly more opaque in color there When this is done, f! in place E, the light is pofu- you will be, as before, defcribetumbralineamento- the color of the rums is thicker than that of the inductees on the plane did the image transformation cure as well; or be a projection in different planes con he would dip, depidss in the veil of the Eagle's line what is the darkest thing in the principal punds of the bed it would be necessary to apply a dark shade to the body they transform the image in the remote fspace day punda would offend Confe artum Vrimum. ID will freeze, shade, and light all transformations can take place. They admire but see the refutations of the Eftedus from here in the Magic of Light Shadows. Second ConfeSiarkm 1J Atet also, fi mefoptic plane fpe- would be to scrutinize the conflict from afar to, so far from the plane, and from the height, quanta ab eodemEK, diftatlumen, tranf- iormat image with a natural fituinfpeculo I will appear. Profit X. Although the figure is defined in a convex cone, so that it may not be seen for any reason, igrdrSimt fiuh determined to be punished, with the eye, that is, on the axis of the product conflict We will here give the manner in which Ni-
ceronusin Curiofa fua Perfpediva do and he is the one who is made. From one center they were struck by the smell of the tequidiffing circle, which the circumference of the rum into the same number of parts the rays of the odo diffefces, as you see in ST, figu ram ix. Icononyms i. z In this fchemate any figitraM you will draw a natural fit. A cone similar and equal to this you will prepare The diameter of the intercept is drawn fchemats ST, twice fumpta in the line CD: de hence from D, the interval CD, or CA de- fcribaturfemicirculusDBA, which in two quadrants, along the line CB, dilpafces. Draw a line from A to B, an arc CX, a long time between AC, in odo into what parts will you divide: through which I am from A, line as you will bring the hidden ones, they will make the side CB, in pundis, through which I smell a circle in a quarter you CBD, dudes will give you an optically pro- I ate; in which near the fchema of the figure within ST Return the eagles thin, you will paint the eagle ugly and difficult, which nevertheless from cer it seems to be the closest to the archetype. See figure q Hocperado thus completed the quatrain so that the two sides CD and CB meet there in the weight B, you will have dc prepare a cone then So if you would like to see the figure, that's it the eye must dilate from the cone as much as the apex the flat coin, to which he trusts. And you will have a fic in it held Note here: in the shape of a concave cone the issue would be drawn, the opposite projection nis account to be held. Spaces for open the lower part of the cone, wide I hit the lower edge of the sharp point they feed What reasoning is better for He will teach everyone, than I or Mul to explain in your own words. (tAlm method. In the cone of Jbecfilari to delineate the image, which they do not compare with the eye of the snow outside the cone Uterine conflict. T N papyrus cone folded plane caret infifienti, oculoq; fixed in a certain place, in God di coniABC turbinatafuperficie, image quo I like the way in which we will teach directly, e a fat lie will be drawn with an unmoved eye. But in order that the drawing may be more elaborate, papyrus li the first cone is ircuvolvito, but it is finished drawing, it was rolled by a wooden cone on a plane stretched out, and a needle, or a flute while the features in the cone fada papyrus through having been pierced, we ordered it to be done. In this way when I finish, make holes in this paper you will surround the cone, like the figure of a natural cone, receive the ram, and then remove the cone neo, and light the cone on the DE side, the candle, put the fire light inside in place E; light through the holes of the paper cone m plane for will throw a transformed image. If again exfo lio Artis magna Book ll. Part 1L from the leaf of Selenitis in fpecUlum opacato co do you form the same papyrus cone, fpe- cies of the image transformed into a small one so the eye is reflected from the side, they will represent the true image cono pellufln GHI, the Eagle shadow di bla reason is painted, it will throw light again niefig. ir tro pofitum in the optical plane Aquila um a deformed bronchus; who is in the same cone of specular size, with the eye from a distance it is safe to use natural fat. Propofito The image on the optical cylinder to reprove Viiefig, v. JQ lat first juxta rulesPcrfpectiw cu- riolse, geometric square AB GD, together with the image of the Imperial Eagle written From F, the center in some plane let a circle be drawn, whose diameter is drawn of the shape of the cylinder, its semidiameter FN, divide it into four equal parts, on this side P, draw circles with the desired circle as many of course as you cross the line: they are square. The first group will be missing those di- distance from the center, how much reflection the lum is suffocating, and the rest are flourishing let the asses grow in proportion as they have to or the same circles at the end of the fcrupulo you will be able to draw parallels. It is divided into a third first circumference LSTVXY, in par tes aquales, by which means from the center F, line? in cir the conference of the last circle of doubts: present they are the optical squares of the geometer's square cis refpondenria &LY, as if you were a fool. fourthly, therefore optical fpacia juxta ferirn, proportion the eagle's limbs are drawn by the squares,
as if through a grid you will depict an eagle the most difficult guarantee, of which nevertheless into the fpecular cylinder at F the center of the circle reflected in his appetite, he drew the natural figure of an eagle. force it will rise again, as figure VI. Iconifmi I. hi e anointed by him. C onjeciarwm. is also clear, according to what was said drawing a system with the aid of a cylinder and it can now be accomplished much better and more easily; to be sure, in the papyrus cylinder before ram, reflas in the plane of the depidls femile, eye in a certain aflumpto punclb conflicted depin xeris, painted near the features of the fua perfo the rate of light in the proportional diffusivity eX- you could For the light through the holes at the bottom diffipatiffimarhque transformed gene he will throw them, which he will then roll into the fpeculum from the formed and into the natural bit What a geometrical transformation also in the same profuse manner as the fupra prof. We have ordered, you will be able to complete: all of which I would easily stumble upon, with many examples innotefccret. I believe this trust the fufiusfeire, let him go to the apiary the dung of Father Betti ni, Perfpeblivam curiofam of Niceron; who failed all in this part then they will be easily deceived: for they are known to be infused not efl, in those already handed down by others to dwell, fed take it to a further end, make yourself a fool only touch the nut.
CHAPTER IV. On the Scenographic Art. 'Regulate the fervandain Scenanm with ferrifition, and other pifluru. IHIL we are talking about here the triple generation of Scenes re, Tragic, Comic, Sa- tyrica, as the most famous in general: fed only mo while we open, where they are very easily optical radiation they can be delineated: he contemplated not the slightest fufeept of fantasizing He claims a part of this for us as if from the precious knowledge of this matter Scenographics received the name efl. Since but with lines, plains, and foliations push the sides, the lights, and the shadows in a variety of ways let the poets and poets imitate them, neceflariaq; ha: c becomes known to all painters; some instead of the crown, we will add here a smoke. It should be known, therefore, that in all the re- the prefentation given to the common fccbione pla not mefoptic, just the primary point to conflict with the fertile data of the high eye health; For this, all the lines are dubtaz in whatever planes are extended. That in It is possible to notice the porches, with them not from the adverb, fedfercund length we infer; for this is the pillar of all rum fummitates, capitulorum, acbafium we infpicimus, and also of the epiphytes and crowns while the directions to the primary that the eyes, instead of efl, contend: here also each other common ill? belong to the line to which pa wickerwork, and floors, and whatever else they are tied to the horizon they are sent to the straight walls. z Then, with the greatest importance in It is polished at the height of the eye, not small in It will be a work of genius, in which case the primary pun while it is properly placed, not high, or low, or in the other place? From here we can see everything mode into Optics, Anoptics, Cato- We read that it was distributed, even among the ancients known When, therefore, the hiltoria he desires to be carried on the plane, in that there is fuperfici as if by the eye, and the horizon is led, fce- naordioptic radiation should be installed. Since but the upper half of the eye line stands out, anoptico: finally catoptico with hiftoria the line of the eye is lower. It is an optical illusion in those matters of design which or in the mountain aA$inob the last scenographer. ll7 bus, or infublinii aere, v el iiifuperioribUS they exfoliate the floors of houses; have for we look at it from the bottom by looking at it. Cato visually, however, the object exhibits those that in the Valleys, or they are in the earth or in other lower places, when we wear them out of the lower places. But those which are fastened in the middle place they belong to Orthoptics, which again plexus: or the height of the eye is a human blow dry up the tower; or be removed from it: be done first, He is the manifestation of all the righteous men whether heads in that straight line, what hour it is the projection of the zontis, it is necessary to cut: fi the more greedy, the higher the brain for men The pink ones will be seen more distantly. True with these thus confounded, already the entire fcenographise
the fruitful account of the three Optics? , Ano Let us open the account of optics, Gatoptica. PICTURE ART SIVE Fundamentals of Scenography PROBLEM L Of the artistic design of the pavements, EMPLORuM, walkers that, of any things within the walls of the enclosure would you like to outline the wickerwork: Pri mo to the line lands QR, let it be the square ABCB, whose side AD is in if it is divided into equal parts; we are here life into which we divide it into two parts. Then they are drawn from the divisions of the AF LED, in any pound on the horizon line such MGX, aflimptum, for example in G, Sg form, which is the main point in the proceedings we said, radales: from the fact that like on the same horizontal line point M, diagonism is drawn: and where he did it radial lines, through that punda to the line three times ras parallel dud, they will give a square ADN S, together with squares, circles, and other or geometric square ptis, opticeprojedu Have a way to go twice, be the diagonals in the putrid AFLED, exM, you have drawn: for the NA side, you have laid it will be fertilized, through which they will give parallels optical square ADNS, as before. If true I turn the projection of this optical square G, proportionally decreasing the content you would like to know, so work. From pounds of eyes lead another diagonal to the last side S square optic pound; and where these dia gonia will make the radial lines AG, FG, LG, EG, too many parallels to the former days will give a proportional degradation optical square. If, finally, another diagonis am from M, in K, the last pound of this If you draw a square, it will make radial lines in some places, through which the parallels will give doubts the third square decreases proportionally fcen, so much so that AKOD, the whole project fpatia becomes equal to the geometrical square ABCD, three times in length. This au tem square degradation for proportionally decreasing to infinity which G, you will throw back; to all of whom um reasons depend on prop. i. chap. i. I went how much help If, indeed, the principal pound not in redo, fed oblique fit, was, as in X, two radial lines as before from X, in AD, and the rest of the punda, and the two diagonals from M, in C, will make rays AX, FX, LX, DX, in which places, through which give parallel lines they will throw out the pavement in the fat of oblivion in which case
Conjecture It is clear from this projection, by what reason the pavements of the temples, of the gardens 3Prin- and rambles, for periphtyls Throwing columns will be erected normally for them infifting, you will have some things about which fu son in the fertile PROBLEM III Conjlruere the optical quadrangle. P Rimo is asserted for the line AB, fu- for which the triangle ABC was described, But the mustache is divided into as many parts as and let the pavement become radiant, five degraded, as we have previously taught, led by figs viz. , from the center C, through the points of division lines Secondly, every diagonal drawn A D, then the eyeball becomes, C: then the point common diagonisms of interfeftions: ra let the parallels of the gods be drawn, and this the basis of the entire scenography, the pavement of the theater Thirdly, let them produce tur AC, inO, BC, inE, fpacio AC, BC, as- such as Fourthly, the extremity of the parallelograms tates are erected between the lines, fire rays CO, CB, CA, CF, normal, the ends of which they are joined together again to make a square optical, whose projection is EO IH, anoptical; AEDB, catoptic; HO BD, ej and ufque opofita EAIF, loxoptic: C, finally orthoptic e; rite If therefore within the loxoptic projection nem If you paint a magnificent palace, it will be a feast Tragic; become private houses. comic; fi ar bores, will represent the scene of the myth. In anoptical clouds, behind, the Sun, the Moon, or even the very beam of those running forth, a projection, to which she was prostrate on the floor He is a son. Conjecture I Atet therefore, the square of the hujufinodi the optical aspects of the entire Scenographer to contain For if instead of parallels nor pillars of evil are set up, you will have peri- some flylium, five Tolumnarum, for portional, loxodromic degradation of fe
vifuiad natures model objects Close the ceiling as tightly as possible would you like to give, instead of parallels in the anoptical Ipacio, the oblique beams correfpon the leaders, who proportional to the degree of degradation rent to nature's model of the beam in the lake ari some difpofition. But if you turn left somewhere you would rely on an optical outline, in the center C tied with which thread, stretch in HH, inside nor threads CH, CH, in any place on the left? They will have an optical problem: Art SccrtQgraphicifs, no feces on the opposite side within two threads CI, CI, If indeed within the lines CR, &CQpor you will draw them, they will have them and you will use them for them throwing Therefore, with the help of the foal of the threads from C center led optical projection Is it possible to find all the phymetry? Finally, instead of normal parallels trees, or garden walks with various ar- borum, bushes that fornicus con texta fe when the degradation of the parallels you didn't know You will have the desired work cam to natures model conformed for throwing All these things are better out of shape They are more intelligent than I, even with many words I can explain. All this therefore the optical pet depends on the first de gradation of the pavement, the lower part of which is parallel erccbenormals will give a wall, reunite that the projection of any kind of erection of floors, doors, fences He will give two of the beasts in the order of the beasts wires drawn from the center inside these fene- ftrte, gates, images, five images they will give certain projections. Look at the picture branch II Iconifmi JonfeSiarium 1L x this way; it is clear, by what reason Ae men and other animals on some floor, fe since optic? reduce the projection smaller things are to be delineated. For if between the lines CS, AC, as you see done, depin you bring forth the dead, or men, and this fruitful one I will make a hole within the parallels of the pavement, which image, include height, cor- responding to people from any place you will paint, you will have something. With this art let men, animals, and trees, on the plane every optic near it of diminution the proportion which the optic requires. See Figure III. Iconifmi From now on all Scenographicaruni methods of projection, although no fua- pte nature cf teris becomes more prgftanti, fed perfect let them all be made of art yet for the diversity of the places in which they are ftatuur, and from what they are fed us, is made from ac to the fallen, so as not to the eyes of those who approach please For let there be an immense light from it the image offends the eyes, when it becomes neceffie turn the shadows of the light Be a fool fertile catoptric, image from below should be seen instead, not weeps of witchcraft, which fiefuperiorilo be made, and in the same manner, as whether it is a fruitful or an optical torch, be it from above the less it is wasted, the less perfed it appears. Then verily, the eyes of those who gaze upon it, make their fates Yes, then jPfitxis Biir#. a great book
fate, when it has made him fertile whose image is inlaid. Yes A thousand delusions occur when from an oblique angle that which is from the open view is affected format, to use in the images in the process bus professor transformed into a bright appa ret: from which the adversary indeed fpe&ata nothing represent but from an oblique yne ray through tranfmiflo exil hole, not out of the region for the first: it wanders about the foundation, for the matter pria, Sc they present in their natural form. II. The rule, of the wonderful splendour, with which the eyes are directed towards you femper, wherever you turn, I will turn he gasped "O Eperta, there is a kind of wonderful reason, from which the human face is thus brought to life it is received, as the beholder, in any place let him fteterit, fixefemper be contorted in the line, no as if the moving image had eyes whom to every place where the fe fpedator he turned, he circumscribed by his own power: how Many are surprised at the matter, and yet not with reason his safignarrepoflint, the courtyards of the wild smoke, some of the painters around me destruction of images to give It must be known, therefore, that the plane magines, but never read
reanr, than when from preftituta eye diftan- such, and they seem to be at a height, yet they are not as much as from the proper place of the eye of the beholder it is moved, only a false image from the truth nor did he stray from the truth. For the snow to be weighed I brought the eyepiece of the mefoptic plane near me you approach me, wherever you turn the same femper the difpofition of the pifta matter, and the re- fponfus fefe offers I will therefore paint the image let him reflect in whatever way: so work. Let the husband of your faith be satisfied with the dress you choose for him a prototype that keeps your eyes open with fixed, immovable eyes let him reflect: therefore the words of this man to thee by reason of the reflection of the face, come to life you will be painted, you will have a request; e-mail no matter where you turn, you will be forced to repaint yourself it will be due The reason for this is that it radiates that of both eyes of a man reflecting in the painter's eyes are made of pyramids the wings of which are the eyes of the image; which when they were founded to live from the beginning, and They constantly infuse the pundts with the same, thus quo no matter how you turn, your eyes are piercing they will make you perfect forever; when done, re- and from the beginning it was wondrous with a certain force and propriety, perpetually impart wind, which we never see happen, fi the eyes will be drawn at random; for neither this never in the marble eye He has a lisfucgelf. Give an account of what a mouse, that with the eye of the phphaeric eye that they may take shape for the most part, and stand out from through the surface of the plane, it becomes like the muzzle of a pyramid He also gave life to a perpetual change beat, nor the eyes in the oblique refpeft the whole they should include the eyeball; whence, &con-cimt frequently referred to as stipulations in every par there will be no profit. So in the leaves all the plain fuperficies hujufmodiin a part of the image of someone called profpeculus it can be done rationally. HincMortis image with the bow some so artfully paint, as a weapon of the bow hurled wherever you go do not turn to the end of the horror to explode in you either let it be seen Innumerable species from the picture I have been depicted in various occassions thus fashioned after the model of nature, uc ni hil ipfispraeter life seems to have been destroyed. No for the eyes are only depicted in a difta manner, fed and with optical genius returned in every part of the projection of men they are held, as in figure VI. Iconium clearly teaches; fed leave these induftriofis to the painters mouse. III. %egula of the anoptical reason which fcriptuWj Jcamillos, we are ordered to leave the feneftms so that they appear at the greatest height with inferior eyes, such as Axima Painters which he fastens, as if things were at the greatest height dine confections refer to natural fat, preferably tim, fi columns, beams, feneftra conftituen- give fint I covered that reason already before that Vitruvius lib. Chapter x. with these words fpecies seem to be at hand, others in the loft; not the same in the closed, half in the open, in the qui- the language of great judgment is the work of while dt: for it seems that truths are not drawn from the living fedlus, fed is deceived by the judgment of his mind. Since therefore, when they are true, let them be seen as false (some, s I do not think that it is necessary for them to be proved by the eyes otherwise than they are. be of the spirit, not to the natures of the places, (fi ne- severances, deductions, or adietlions to be made of lean The stylus must be adjusted in such a way that h ale at through the middle adjeldion, through the odd ficamillos. For if the alveolatus eye is directed to the book it will be seen. What must be understood, fupre- that is to say, the plain of the plain was covered with it the horizontal balance is crushed, in the middle the adjedtion is to be made, without putting it in another place veluti, plinth, cui ceu fcammillo, fcamnu- with the word of the mustache, the plinth is infuriated, so as not to be crowned obtained from afpedtu fubducaturquam in the alveolus was withdrawn, and odd but Vitruvius fcamilli, in a much more edifying place they are so much more of which there are perhaps a few examples in ancient times let us have a fight; but I preached it pus Pantheon Human Column rtaiani row The art of Scdnovrapbicd.
It must be seen that the Pantheon is also veimaxiffie, lest otherwise Vitru- The most beautiful of all cries, he said, would be better, the lower parts of the lord, when from the lower part dung, with three odd crowns in the circle sometimes ht like fcamilles, to whom Angu the straps of the rows are supported as if they were whole from a lower place the lowest the fire which was placed in the first order he receives the fruitful, he is the humblest; next door the mouse to this, the middle of the fire is raised; the third man We have exalted them: the whole reason of which is from optical rays, and the crown of the ma- It really depends. Wherefore in teftudini- He did not fly away from the smoke of the crown of the plain the bending of the bows begins, fed by so much al yours, as much as the rays of those who from the bottom of the cell: on the side they blow up, they blow up ranted Scammillis quoqfte old ftepifli- I have been in those llylobates, which folita- to the columns of the king, or to the man of the most illustrious men rum fuppofuere as if from fuggeftoau- and for that reason rrr-ri they are partially supported by the force of depreffa within the well be given An example of this creative technique, Trajan's Column, which even Komas Angulare Urbis monu chin, and ornaments, in which the laws are so artificially doubtful, as intervals the outer helix, and twice the lower one maj ora, however, everything from imomoconfpe- let them appear So let them be in another column to be ordered as the lower to the upper, and all let them be seen to be equal among themselves, so to work: Let it be Column AD, the floors of which are fint AK KI, IH, HG, GF, FE, ED: from B, like a pound of the eye, draw the quadrant AC, and divide it parts equal to the number of floors in co lumna DA: from the center for B, through the parts in in the quadrant AC, they made a column for AD, in places, within what is on the left, place hard, hard, pictures, 8c daughters so below the confection in B, everything appears they will be equal. Sometimes I swear: next to For I will hypothesize: Any matter they appear at an equal angle, they appear equal; but AK, KI, IH, FIG, GF, FE, ED, are equal but the corners are seen from the hypothes: therefore, The matter is quite easy, and the great ones in Archi- He has a tetura. Of these reasons we mention Phidias of Alcamene, as it is at Tzetzem, he brought back the visionary. Both and Phidias were careful to exaggerate the futaturia optical indeed; an expert in the area to make the nature of the Lamb was the folly: Alcamon but only the wall fym- metrics Why, when sometimes it should be necessary the Athenian people were divided into Miners to mount the vessel on the lofty columns, to both? huu e It is very important work. AtPhidiashaud ignorant to appear the shortest country that is in the foothills, He made a gesture with gaping lips, and I give it to the members of the camp according to the condition of the place deformed, which was placed in the lofty ma He pre-eminent the dignity of art; Alca but the work of the men was to go and play brio KeguU of the light and shadow of the Scenes, SIVE De ArtepiSloria. There is no light nor the shadow, which properly belongs to the Pidores they belong, let us say; for these they use fire, light, and shadow, and fire bind also the proper colors of each thing. When, indeed, all those things which They would like to come by hunting, or reda: fint there are no lines, or circles, or twisted ends bent by that law; and now all these things are false prophesied accounts; it is clear that nothing else is needed Efle, to the propofity of this projection to be explained in general. So let's turn the lights on First, let the forms be properly drawn up I beg to remind you, in which the most I see myself hallucinating: in one way from the lights, in another from Let the sun's diffused rays of light be admitted: no but in that one way those things which they are in the open air, and the object of the left and right there in conclusion; Finally, in another way with other lights, others from one light: mine for those from the lanterns, or the fufeepto by cne-mir, from or lyres The great art of Liher II. Part They are illuminated by the light of the light, and they are projected by the fcenographic foundations
light, indeed, more sparingly, but more abundantly, as whatever shade they are covered with. Which: but admit the sun's rays, orthogra- phicefuntdefignanda, thus parallels ra The gods have therefore written down light and shadow participate in the figures. Finally, what is in the open they are air, surrounded by equal light on all sides must be presented, as they exclude the shadow part of the way. Hocpty- terefedulo elladnotandum, that at Op ticum fpeffcat: they exhibit a picture in a picture it is done, not the fruitful view, which previously done, efl, it must be depicted, fed as It is affected by the immature. In this matter the Pidtores pl the rimes are not vulgar, but they are of optical matters experts, let them slide. Now, therefore, after having thus been properly prepared, nothing it reflects, snow, as from proportion, light, St the shadows, to the painters ramus: they do not like my profeflons, nor did any of these come into practical action I had introduced; but still for me natural judgment about he had dictated this way, here willingly memorMuficorum, who etfi prxflantiffimas harmonies, merging with the judgment of Sefummo they compose, but not at all with their voice let the promenades be seen fit: remember also ipfius Horatij: Acts as a sharp turn of the skin To return, what? Whoever, therefore, to any one in this no- with the highest level of skill he had trusted to come, he was especially fond of this art of light and shade: and the foundations of optics where: are the graphics of the whole mustache and sling ment, addifcendaefTefciat: finehifce neither nor anything with judgment, nor it would be perfected from the best of art and nature it will fade away Make sure it is soaked, carefully monuments of famous painters but, with all care and attention to his imitation, better than that, by procuring it, with an alfidua mind recollecting the shadows, diffusing the lights rents; with which projections the light com He asks for a clear one, with whom I live femper refpect of place, time, hiftorias; what shadows are darker, what kind of healer? darkness is better, when the fertile one is born frame borders, and edges of images, , Sc how to light the light hmilT& they give; I live in the omnibusrefpedtu of the place, tem nimbra tu- hiftorias: for another hiftoria in the south nteldfi; displayed, sometimes at dawn, sometimes at night: which diffuse the shadows of time the rents are made by the neceffario. From these also the construction of houses, temples, towers, rc- rums of inflrumentals the image of fields, rivers, and rivers whether reflected, the projection of the same shore it is natural. For against the art of gravity those who sin even the least in this world, which; some difference, preferungcefpitaverint as either neighbors of which are smaller, or greater by which they delineated the greater objects. plate II A D contributes a lot to the shadows of the images, fiob eyes your five men are also well proportioned born, and how they should depart from the natural archetype flexures, habits, grunts, fitus lingularis iicuiusium You were part of the shadows, St lights. With this: everything was molded, and the best fucceffu they will finish, if the eye is below the object ali how much they conflict, light from white, Sc the fifieri poffet, the northern plagiarism, the ninth At noon, because it was too intense and variable the light by which images are obscured, Se they strengthen the unfortunate fucceflu, on the way. Similar errors are known to academic painters The Romans commit themselves to the light at night They would like to try thousands of candlesticks, big snowflakes ma, and moldy garments of raw shadows let them improve their condition. Rule III The human body is close to the rest of the body let them put it, by offering it to the undressed the proportions of the parts are in turn, with the end of which rum hotitia, as much as all the picture will be taken. monflruofa evadir, St ridiculous; offering IWgf in the meantime, nature: , fexus, astatis, condition, jver Sc Circumflantias; for another efl proportion fmm of the human body in a boy is different in a man, different in the hay, some in the sea, some in the fcemina: which: He is the most important in the entire work Albertus Dürer will convey the painters. dif- let him also sing the whole, which he has broken into pieces
that they should be fit for parts: for other Efl the proportion of a man's limbs on the ground with hundreds, one thing is blowing, another thing is smelling, one thing, you become another conflicting, other limbs weakness of the contracted, bent; one was a gefus of hay, another a youth, another a boy. Rule IV Physiognomy of the human body t quality of men, c uos they think to draw a smoke stream cant as a body perhaps, 8c strong from soft, tender, 8c weak; virile i juvenile, Gygantisjf Let the dwarves make a difference; the vivacity of the black anger from indolence, trifles from lust and so on, all the passions of virtue bus con Scenographic but the opposite, as they will teach him the surrounding hiftories? , features, um let them express the breeze and the light. I will die rum also from the living, from the sleepers from the vigorous it must be offered to the lants. Rule V By statute, too, the deficiency should be covered they flutter, as they run, falling, stealing, smelling, both lentes, be thou fruitful of the body, receive the flatterings of the rat spread one in an orderly manner; line direction nis in all things boiling, prone to toothache members. Thus Pi&or rising, or de- the image of the fcendent was made exprefurius, pi It would make the structure awkward, let it be weighed cular, and fruitful line of direction will win; therefore it becomes a little bit more difficult leaning, reclining, eating. Same thing to be understood by those who bear burdens; another for, while he lies or rests, he reaches out the hand; another raised his hand; another it will be mixed with the colors of other bodies rum reflections If yellow, and blue He will be rejected by the white hypocrisy mifturaviridis, use fuse fupra lib. i. often we give Thus the red and the blue are caufant pur pure: as opposed to juxtaposition fepophytes shine more; so the colors, which funtiftimfliores, juxta fepofiti, more illu- They show the by mistake: what colors they bring are the rest done? affective settings How much Thus the child with the vine, the youth with the lest, a woman with a man, weak skinTorti, fe you are composed with trifles, exprdfique, and act they approach nature, and are therefore more agreeable vifuL Rule VIII I used to be an interpreter mo ftudioafCtare the nature of things of plants, such as trees and river plants whether, the sea, diflantiam in lingulis, with co by boiling the lore proposed; it&utprasfen- such a natural color; remove everything from the green in blue from the earth, another from the foothills will receive it Which not only in man, fed in anus evils are to be offered. Hence in Equo j t0) def nant of colors. Water also, which Etrotinfin- Captor, and Pollucis in the Capitol even now! He is capable of dyeing every color, with that color capitulate while he spurns the horse with two feet not deflatimoppofitis, fed of one side of the bottom tinges, with which imbuipotefl from objects proden to you so black and red clouds, black Sc ru brother the verdure of the tree is imbued with a green color: which weeping: when it is contrary to nature, and all things are offered to the model of nature the rapid movement of animals can hardly be said power, as much as the eyes of the experts then inject I'm talking about blowing horses here Hippodidafcals did not die in the times, who They must force the horses to march on one side; which, however, he did not want to continue then they are valid Temperature chin Rule VI T T You spend these judgments, not undeservedly That which is in pictorial art is already stirring the most perfect, and the complement of the whole art then finally it will be censured; of the colors adapted to every thing to be expressed alive the temperature of the bed, at the end of which there is nothing in By this art you make yourself worthy: for these become too much have been clear, the neighboring parts as diff the flocked moleftes will affect the eyes of the ipphos; become be too obsequious, disfigure by obscuring your neighbours they are if they are different, they will find a confussion. Let them be therefore these rules No color reflected in it refers to the fuperfection of another body in that fu- complete the tinting of the proper color, fed appa- they are It is also now peaceful, now angry the color of the sea must be given: the color of the rivers with ropes, now broken by smoking torches
now variously frozen by the waters. Rule VI11 T N is also diligent in portraying habits they offer three fringes. that you were of the vengeful with the fringes: another for the folds of vehemence in man blowing, aliainfedentff; other in different gifts there is a reason for those they eat; they may be added by another reason, than by ipfa nature, in the pattern of a man's life. Where? whoever is hot mnes will fulfill the parts of an ingenious painter. There is much to be said about the exotic here of mifturi colors, piclurifque rant: fed because that pierunque in lib. i. We have divided the magfe of light and shadow, therefore fa- He thought it futile for them to do this any longer instead of staying ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI From SOC. ]ESU PRESBYTERY GREAT ART LIGHT AND SHADOW The Third Book CURIOUS APPARATUS CONTAINING P RAFATI-O. UCEM in this MaqnceArtis, JJi exits the bodies of the world; then as mobile, motion 'Sjq in vain, there are variations in man mm gives birth to fdent souls. Sometimes, therefore, a In the previous two books, everything was immotce luds lati bula difcujjimus; nothing just reflects and all the jingulas were moved by the women let us persevere; which will be done in three books altogether. In for these are the light of all the movements and accidents of the heavens thus presents; as those immense volumes of the heavens I no longer r emote, fed him in the earthly these ha the mysterious gurgling of the tranflaters in a bright field like a shadow a finger from We want to look at the mon ft rata before us. However eihaudcongre wwGonomonicatCuriofae For we have put nothing in the Gnomonic Universe new, rare, exceptional, curiofium efl, fiequenti bus three books method Xima, and brevity, lest we be deceived, a bright fat pan we give And don't be fooled by the demon of mathematics ft treatment of accounts curiofos Lecicresfluce not he would not stumble anywhere in the Key of the theory of Gnomonics in this book, which therefore I noted the Gnomonic Apparatus a mouse, it is a living thing to promise; or by stumbling upon fruitful books, to enjoy the sweetest fruits of the harvest there They will find P roots here, which they will love. To the mechanics, the objects which they applaud: I deliver many and most of the greater importance discovered by me theoreticians have no doubt a new fpe cu lat. The insatiable appetite for doing math remains you are by no means satisfied with the auguts, fied in breaking forth from the most abundant fields of Phyflcce Phyfica Mathematical completely connect the flow dui: how is it done, as from this physical-mathematics- to this marriage some new fiobles emerged, than fi Gnomonicamphyfico, say ro, it will be seen that it is called by its proper name. To these therefore, in such a manner, nothing is reflected in the snow, as Gnomonicce Let's apply the Curiofie pen. prepared IN THE GNOMONIC CVRIOSA V E F l N ITIONS. I. A Gnomonic Rs is certain, and de- shows the active movements of the left on any level, or fuperficia represented by the shadow of the gnomon facul s. II. The Gnomonic year is the shadow of the gnome monis from PunAo south of the Tropic of Cancer to the same southerly tropic round and it is the same with the tropical year. III. Memphis Gnomonicus is fpacius, that the shadow of the gnomon from one parallel li parallel to the fire of another wood He makes the light. The Gnomonic Day is the arch, which the shadow of the gnomon from the rising of the Sun to the day he makes the occafum in a hollow fuperficie, but that same 'Definition it is the same as an artificial day, viz The sun below the horizon. I said, in the hollow finish, because in the plains the shadow because of immensity, let it be an artificial day, do not exadte menfurac the daily arc of five. V. The Gnomonic Hour is a space, which the shadow of the gnomon from the hour line to the line completes Aftrolabium Gnomonicum, five Sciathericus, it is an intrumentum, five orga whether, in which the doctrine of the whole first mover the shadow of the gnomon is shown. VII. The fciatheric clock is in- Coms Parallel a tool with which I like a fermone
hours, gnomon mon the shadow is filtered: the five fciathericafunt organs, in which all the information of the hours is from the shadow The shadow of the Sun, or of the Moon, and of other rays: it is traced to those who obtain power, from which um bram, and what to hunt, and to trace ftgni- let it happen VIII. Gnomonic triangle elt portion of the analemmas of the celeftian circles, together with the place and height of the gnomon at the angles of the poles, and of the equator whether manifesting Hyperbole Ellipsis tX The Sciatheric cone is a leafy shape, than the movement of the Sun's diurnal shadow: in the pla does he decide with any projection: cu- the right apex is the vertex of the gnomon; parallel, which the Sun will describe. So ABC co is a nut whose A is the vertex of the gnomon, BC is parallel el us Solis hidden from the shadow. The Gnomonic Parable is fedkio coni fciatheric, which makes a certain plane parallel to the side of the cone. As in the cone ABC pa the rabbet is parallel to the axis NO side AC, the cone ABC. XI. Gnomonic hyperbola is a fetition fciatheric cone, which makes the plane that I will give through whatever the side of the produtti beyond yertic point extended into the beak side of the cone In Cone shape: appo- lines ABC, AFG, a hyperbola: are KMD, EOI. XII. Ellipfis Gnomonica is the fattio of the cone fciatherici, qua: while the plane of each co whether obliquely, with any pundto outside the muzzle he makes, is made, as in the attached figure of a cone ABC, ellipsis eftPR. XIII We call the conotomous plane il a flat piece of furniture, which is made of a cone the theric charging him by any means let him not do what they refer to hyperbolas and ellipses. XIV. The axis of the fciatheric cone is the same as axis of the world through the center of the bafts, apex co nor is it transversal, but the axis of movement is a line in the plane of feeding from the tip to the beak dta, making a bifurcated mustache. Cujufmodi in the parabola is NO, in the hyperbola K. MD, the line DD, ineligible, PR, Chorda: of creations, which others or applied dynamically, they are the line: parallel: axis of fection 't inter- cantes, in the sphere of the federation porrecfts; Cu- The conicarumbafes of the conicarumbafes are modified. the middle part of the chord: are called As in the parabola line EF. Center reflection nis is said pundtu it, in that all of them are in the factory incident radiation they converge to reverberate; with jufmodi in elipfi here ap- they want NO It is true Apollonius a little hu He has made the right mention, but it is important confidence, point with it all proportions, and interests in the human race emanate, as in the Horographia prodigiofa pl he will be responsible. The income side of someone's income Gnomonic is a line equal to ordinarily which led to a hundred reflections there; next to which all the other fettiiordina- tae certain menfura proportion ha bent The line represents this in the shape of a parabola DS The primary side of the gno is the diameter of the circle in the cone, from which the beginning leads to fattio. The side of the transfer in the hyperbola the gnomonic axis is the same hyperbola beyond the top produdta, with the side co ii i whose middle point is called the center T trum i4 Book III. M'Gnomon apparatus. the center of the faith, as the proportion of the side I was transferred together with the added adfemordina he should have a tasita fe, so that the parts of the diameter of the faith (eg it will be demonstrated with desire) or circles organized Transverse side in hyperbola le fiiguraedED XXL
infested are called line? side hyper boles femper vi the younger ones, never however, even in produce infinity de, with her con running To use ed in this figure the line FG, which I have indeed won the femi-hyperbole CA femer I think, but never concurring when swollen products. Oppose beliefs with hyperbole they are called gnomonic, which are in two cones branches joined together at one top on both sides of the cone they have a bafe termination. It appears to use a hyperbole in the figure. HYPOTHESES FEU PRONOUNCED. I. HpErra ypouornSs is one pound fenfu, not by reason of imperceptibility, which refers to the apex of the gnomon in fciatherics. II. Shadow ray with light ray fo, from which it proceeds, is extended into the direct;
five, which is the same, the shadowy ray with luminofo completes one red line. III. The shadow ended in a partially opaque body, partially illuminated, as if extrinsic is defined by the term IV. Dark body, in the opposite light casts a shadow. V. How is the shadow a line? so the line; the shadow of the body, and the body the bra is the body. the shadow moves as well. VII. Light and shadow around motionless the opaque body of the oppofitis moves wide with them, from here to the right, to the right, to the right they rejoice in part; but the body is luminous, the higher, the shorter, and the lower I will ignore the normal so much more he casts a shadow three times. VIII. A bright, shadowy ray they will move with equal speed. In the same plane of the circle flow center of the Sun, center of the earth; , 8c um bra the end: whence it was finished The sun travels through parts, the same number of terms but the shadow; while The sun will describe a circle in the sky, the boundary in facing a plane covering a circle of smoke lem, defcribet Shadows, which are equal to him then the plane in the center of the earth; or the planes between fe parallels in the fuperficia triple embedded proj ici- as, they are between fe equal to fenfu. XI. They do not teach flat fenfu, and rays fo- Do not let the larder be brought into the opposite parts they give XII. The top of each gnomon is fenfu coincides with the center of the earth, as the axis of the oblivion who watches XIII Centers of equipment let them teach the fenfu of the earth, and make fumes of the same, fire the rim with c? left circles bus funt ofM, MTpoi, finally the whole tent diameter one pound; for the whole earth ed pundum cceli: therefore quoduisinea pun while at the same time the center of the cosli ed. PART ONE THEORUMENE, Protheory I From requifit to CJnomonic Art, feve Ajlronomiam Sciatherica. U M end noder in this Art Gno it becomes the monica, the first mover of the whole dodrina in any given I want to throw a plane, or something cunque aftrolabiis, planifph? riif- For some reason, Adronomi wanted to search for her here at the end of any effort, leaf shade? throw lest, like a ray of light, a certain finger constantly to show off: for this indeed to be protected The most important thing to do is to make it useless they are First, the church of the circles, horarurm that the gnomonics of the things to be conveyed information Secondly, of the planes, in which; I throw must be made gnomonic, of different ex- adum judgment Thirdly, the gnomon, feu indi cis, or phtyli om quality, fitness, appetite Fourthly, of the slanders and slanders Fifth common circles feBions qtiidfint Triple Clafiis cir of the blind Uncanny he is tired iyntutk Around Cdeftibm. Curated, pragmaticafeAionum, projeA-moles like mustaches leaning on each owl, and the ion of the diaphorus in the tables. and those great things I project the sixth of the fuperficies into the plane. i. they draw the matter of the stool, I read about the lingulis And hereafter, when we have made it worth while to treat the end of this whole art CHAPTER I On the definition of the ulefii circles, ecrumqne in the Horogrdphia offices. Ptolemy juxtaplex horologioru (of course hori zontal, vertical and horizontal ridiani) genus, three quoq; ?W? i only maxi-circles Wy mos in any fphaerse polish the corners seAos, to use the horizon, the meridian, ver ticale was properly said to be killing in He had trusted me with analemma. For anyone of these three circles through them, which a Theodosius lib. i. prof. demonstrative tur, xeAus is to the other two, when through him arum poles are drawn. Common too the readings of the same circles in cent the worlds collide with each other between faith and righteousness angles, because any two ho- For the rest of the circles, they are, as we have said, and therefore common also their bearing perpendicular to the same. But the common horizontal defection, and the meridian is called by Ptolemy the line me Ridiana But the sea of the common horizon And the vertical line is called the equinoctial line, therefore which also becomes common to the fe Aius of the horizon and the equinoctial circle. A common deni that feAio of the meridian, and of the vertical, Gnomon It is called Behold, these are the circles of which Ptole Maeus makes mention of each one of them
then giving motion. But we diva more widely gloves, also a wider group of circles differences in the surface of the sky we have to explain; more and more, for of ficiorum, which in this gnomonic business obtain, by multitude, and by diversity mouse As they proceeded, they all cir let's divide the left-handers into a triple claf- fem. In the first class are all those circles of Gitudinus, who were killed by fear at the poles of the world meet you; to use the meridians, to wear and three, hourly circles the like. Infertile all those on the horizon meet with defeat are parallel, as if the height of a circle, which The Arabs call them Almucantaras; pofTunt parallel to the Sun's oblique lower sphere In the third defeat we destroyed all those who be conceived pofTunt between the poles of the world, ho- the intermediate horizon: of which again ma there is a great difference; for others to the axis 2i re Ai, like all the circles of the Sun at xqua- tore parallel; but others to the horizon indeed, they use vertical circles, which the Arabs They name the azimuth, let them be trusted; others are denied those who neither reach the horizon nor the axis of the world is real; fed oblique interfer not, and to this one, and to that faAa in heaven con they are taken, according to what kind of zodiac they are, om as many circles as can be conceived diftant; also the circle of friends, home and the coeleftium, and others: of which all to be done in order. definitions The Eridian circle is that which through I went to the poles of the world, and led the top of the place tur, fupereminetq; other majors in fphgra material, whose axis is the meridian line; but in this is smoked the height of the pole of Cujufvisloci. II. EquinoAial circle in fphaera di He is said to be greater than the pole of the world. written, and in every way from both poles All the parts were removed. III. The circle of the zodiac is oblique into two equal halves, whose the poles recede from the poles of the world only when then the Zodiac from the equator in the North nem, or Auftrum removed, elongates. IV. Horizon is the biggest group out there top, feu punAo Zenith, like a pole carried away, divides the meridian to the corners real fphxrals; it is called by the Latins Finitor by the fact that the living hemaphrodite was made by a non-living prepares a Grxcis oeio; MV- wfuripcur dvi&mvdwo noeyTV. . V. Parallels of the Sun, the fire of the circle of the Signs of Talldi Of the zodiac, there are those who are equal Tori moved on Sunday, Monday, and others of the latter within the twelve Logs of the Zodiac of the confederates around the earth, the center of the municipality di, so much smaller, as from xquator ma they will be carried away. All these ta diverfitatem, diverfimode quo that they can be trusted; fub fphaera reAa all towards the horizon, in the middle they appear, but the means disappear; fub fphae- ra oblique horizon oblique feAione ra teeth, now below, now below, instead of wood by confection, a greater portion, or mi they exhibit knowledge parallel to the horizon, feu xquidi- ftantes, permanent either by apparition, or by eye tation Of all these, the femer is partly a ho- the horizon is visible, partly hidden below but two are the greatest of all, in any case two poles of the world with one foot in the circle on one side fixed at the poles, on the other at the horizon I will stretch them out, carried away; of whom T x one i4$ The great book of art II. Lars II tm of the circle, one of Aftronomis greatest fempcr appa rer fem-rents; but the other is the greatest femper they are loved by the great-grandparents. And although the one to the other a mouse, another lemper lit sequalis, par; no one left mn appa- ftimet both femper ej ufclem efie mag- shine; for both are so much older they are nearer and nearer than the horizon Exiftit oblique; adeoutfub both po to those who live in the highest part of the circle come together and coincide with the equator They give two of these tropics under the poles of the circles are officiated by the office, and the inhabitants of the tropics and the poles of the same they will face the task of two parallels. Hi for parallels are cut in every region femper sequales, squalite from xquator
removed, to use conflates from propof. 6-lib. x. The- odofii, where he demonstrates ipfe one of his own the ages of the spheres, which efthujuf- ways The greatest circle in the fphasra, who ali which the circle does not touch, it touches also another shark not too great for him parallel Since then the greatest circle that is to say, the horizon touches the parallel the greatest of the apparent from the outside, the same in it will touch the greatest circle of the femper o. c the worshipers opposed him. Where the note is, another thing select the largest circle something else greatest with adpinElion; for these I say there the great compared to the others are small rum mZl VI. Vertical circles, didfi Azmuth, {xmt the circle of the greatest fefein pundfo of the vertex, and the bottom of the feet killing the horizon I returned muclntd-' VII. Circle of heights didfi Almucan ru. tbquid? tarath, there are circles on the horizon which are more distant from the horizon, so much the more and more and more are they diminished; of these the greatest is the horizon. They are called circles height, because the height of any let them determine the elevation above the horizon; and they are in the shape of a circle of degrees pa rallied hftilm do- VIII. The circle of Creleftian houses, feu polices are of two kinds: according to Re- for the Giomontani are nothing else than those circles which pass through the commons of the horizon and of the south, kill the sharks into twelve parts: Ju- but according to the bells they are nothing else than circles passing through common faiths horizon, meridian, vertical iaraiitH rinm in ix. killing sharks. bought Parallel states, the width of the circle dino, from the bows, the fire parallel to the wood they do not differ: for they are squatter circles squidiftantes The decline of the circle too the sun is said to be polished. And these are the messengers of the circles of which we speak in this Gnomonic will be done From which I can clearly understand all the fat of circles will be removed, and inter&io nes to the meridian, the horizon; those knowing that you will have no difficulty in producing difficulty Wherefore be careful not to be deceived in them Ledfor will work hard to print, before progressing to fertility. Le offices of circles in Aflro- Gnomonic names. I. Of vertical circles, Vertical arrows, which the Arabs Azimuth they appeal, there are larger circles, which through the top of each place, feu Zenith, to lin The gluttony of the horizon is brought down, let it be killing each other at the Zenith and Nadir. But all these circles are straight with the hour zonte fphasral angles, they are that ipforum plane to the plane of the horizon dtaperxx. the first book of Theodosius. And to whom am the whole horizon contains degrees, every one of them he walks vertically, he is made to be in the universe fint vertical circles, although perfin- the gluttony of the horizon, as the wind demands, They are imagined to be transferred to Aftronomi; which they will be almost infinite. And between these vertical rings is an annulus Meridian also deserves; for it transpires ipfe through the top of each place. Whom Indeed, there is only one spring in the south tical circle at the top to the corners redlos kills; and here call it special and proper ball Vertical circle by antonomafia it could be called, and passed through the commons the intersections of the Equator with the Horizon, which in this figure D, E, which are of the true East, And in the West they are called pundla. The meridian circle also, and turned more precisely, the entire hemisphere dividing a tree into four quarters as: the two of which are said to be eastern, as is: that which turns towards the South, and it is said eastern meridian; those things which turn Sep the tent is stretched out, the app is lifted to the east North But the two western ones they are called, the other of which is the western one meridian, since it runs to the south it is called the other northwest, which reflects the North ro all vertical circles maj ores fint, no yet in the lower hemisphere we have an eye to be brought to bear, fed only in the fuperio It is evident to us that they have none
ufum at Aftronomos in the lower hemi- fpluerio, or at least a very rare owl. Because all the circles are vertical I said to walk through the top of each place a mouse, they are never collected perfectly to change the place, the snow will change. Whence Of Circles in each hemisphere, these circles are stationary some will be fat to conceive, yet others and others in various hemiphasries. And vertical circles are invented ftnlticZ by Aftronomisad various fyderum oberva- Ih diwiw. tions For the first office of these circles the wideness of the sun, and of the rest of the latter from the true rising, and let us hunt and determine when I saw them The white whales rise above the brown horizon they burn, or kill, the fire below the horizon they defend themselves. For he is beckoning to us a vertical circle, which then passes through the center it crosses the horizon as much as the arc of the horizon interfaith, while the eastern horizon it happens, and is punished by the rising of the truth; indeed, the arc of the horizon, Idmplituio dmem we call the ortiva, which diftnbui- vrtiva, there to the North, and to the South, as he was born in the North quarter east, or south east. Pairing the vertical circle amazes us, how big it is The arc of the horizon went between the fydus, while ex on the western side it meets the horizon, and the point of true west; which indeed when, we say, the breadth is set, what? the unkillable Septentri is also divided Onal, and Southern, it is made of the amplitude the eastern dinner was unfolded. And so by we know the vertical circles, how big it is Of the sun, or of another cujufvisftell? size both to the east and to the west, be still wide he has health; but they have all alb a outside the circle of quinoftialempofita ampli health for folas fydera in gquinophthali placed in a circle, they lack any size not This further extent, five rose vam, fi, and occuvia are also called Aftrono- My breadth of rise, or occafus. Second, the circle is vertical properly we know the saying, in which quarter of the world any thread will be placed at any time which I drink not uncomfortably from some if the circles are vertical, they will be called straight circles dino But to what extent does this knowledge relate? in which I saw equal to the world find you the sun there any the hour of the day, no those who do not know or average tur in Analem- Mate Ptolemy are written: for ipfe by Ianc the distance of the Sun from the vertical properly fto, which indeed through the rest of the vertical cir is held, horizontal horology de- will strike The rest were led in a more sinister shape vleJhbMi there are vertical circles between fe degrees diftinfti on account of the narrowness of the figure in which A is common horizon with the meridian North; C, feftio common hori zontis with the southern meridian; B, ver capital house; D, the creation of a common horizon with the eastern follower; E, the feftio commun the snow of the horizon with the western follower; Finally, the circle ADCE, the horizon re- he presides; ABC, the meridian, and the line ED, follower. circles of height t A circle of heights, which the Arabs call Almu cantarath, Latini most circles pro- Quomk they are called Greffians, they are those from the Cujuftibet Almc! nl the top of the place, the fire pole, the horizon a? quidiftan the quadrant of the vertical circle is a Zenlth to the horizon at degrees (for so many Almucantarath will be brought from ftronomysja with which verticals for all The twenty-sixth clay is divided into parts, since in the whole circle of the horizon the quadrants of the vertical circles are spun: so as the circle of Almucantarath, AzZ muth, they make a kind of hemifphserica Take a look at the texture of the jiit in progress it is allowed But among all these groups I am the greatest the mouse is the Horizon, below which I cannot be carried the rest will be Almucantarath, since (pe ctant to the hidden hemisphere, in which i they inhabit the antipodes of Noftri. The rest they are smaller, and all are unequal among themselves les, the smallest of which is the next the vertex is exited. And because the pole of opinion the rum of the circles is Zsnith in every quarter: sion, it is perfectly clear that they should not be changed, not at all
And the zenith shall be changed together with the horizon in any hemisphere these circles are all they are not immovable in conception. They thought of Aftronomih circles ah timdinumad, heights Yum cireM- of the other to be boiled; of I do it for a while rum circle rum elevation don't be fooled horizon nyum fyderu so fixed how wrong they are measure there For such is the height of each thread how many degrees are there from that circle of height which he then occupies, to the horizon of the sun indeed, what degrees does that quadrant indicate? T Create a line pufctdi How much ra becomes tem- fort. Artis magna Book III which pass through the center of the ftellse it is understood, for example, the caufa: Let it be aftrum G, in through the circle of height GH, and through the center the vertical ftriduftus becomes AHG, and it boils arc HG, between the horizon and the circle height interieftus, ftellx height. The majority of those Circles ell; in Aftrolabius, for the mediators of the it is used at the hour of the day, or at night. Also when then Solfupra rises to the horizon the matter of the hours of the day, as will be explained in the ufo of Altrolabius there Prxter all these groups of heights to be understood ell another below the horizon Gr. eixquidiltans, qualis ell QR When for the Solanteortus reached this point by entering um ell aurorx, or the twilight of the morning; when Vero reaches the same poltoccafu, the end of ell Crepufculi vefpertin. For the Sun is an exiled being fub horizonte gr. qui quidegradus com they must be thought of in a vertical circle through the cent after the sun has fallen, it begins to be illuminated in the early morning and velpertino defines illullrari fecun while the common Allronom am Now this circle may be said to be parallel the game of twilight f. III. Of the Horical Circles The circle of hours who ho they are said to be rare, there are larger circles, which going through the poles of the world, all in water they divide the matter into xqual parts: For when the time comes for menfura movement, and vice versa fa, the movement becomes a menfura of time, as from Phyfi- corumlibrisconllat; fEquatorverq ad mo while the whole universe is carried out in the most regular manner; It will make the water move awkwardly the time in which the first mobile from the east moves west. Whence it comes to pass, that the twenty a quarter of the time in which the entire equator fe-! honey is surrounded, correfpondeat yigefimx a quarter of a quarter of a quarter, and vice versa. But this is the twentieth quarter of the season A part of the aforesaid, they came to the aid of an hour to drive Allronomi, so that the whole equator fpacio hours femel is wrapped around and one hour, the twenty-fifth hour, the fourth part of the aforesaid the twentieth quarter of the season tem of the equator, and turn the twenty-fourth time part of the equator, one hour: let it be measured by the quantity tate: which indeed is the twentieth quarter the equator contains degrees x so that gr. let them correspond to one point of the equator. If you go there is a squalid arch through the molds, which Gr. they encompass, and through the poles of the world circle We will decipher the greater ones, who will be in heaven two puffs opposite each other in the equator, so as in three times each of the two immediately interposed tur gr. jdividetur totus xquator, fin- (Drotbeori Part I. the parallel gules of the Sun in the hourly parts These are therefore called hourly circles, feu houra rum dillindtores, who are to conceive om not immovable in any frame, which midday midday, which between the hour each circle is counted. Indian But what are the hours of that hourly circle at the beginning? fumptoa the meridian circle, and so a in the south, after the manner of the Allronomi; so that when I give the sun to the meridian circle in the open Hemiphxrio has reached the movement of the first mob lis, it is the twelfth hour; what hourly circle is the first hour south pole cundahoura, and so forth, until at noon to reach the dian in the hidden hemiphxry, where I will return at the twelfth hour, that is, at half night Which dreams can be easily understood from in this figure, in which the meridian is ABCD, Po lus Ar&icus A, An arcticusC, Equator BD, Horizo n obliquusGE, V verticalisFH, Circles but those who are hourly are those who are by either pole
they are led, and they divide the quarter into twelve xquales cimhoras (reprxfentatenim ltxcfi- half a mouth, only a fphxram, it is ni a wonder, that he went from meridian to meridian p Whence it was done twice it's smoking, it will be drunk in tegra ra. They are indeed; two such hemi- fphgria of manure liaprofus between (which ad to desire concerning the hourly circles) of which the meridian of ABC, the ell of the twelfth circle horx: A1 C, primx horx: A C, fertile: horx: A C, tertix horx, so forth, as easy numbers on the table frant And these circles, which fimplicitly, Si with the added end, they are called horary, since from no place but from the meridian circle a more convenient beginning of the day is smoked, as in fphxra will be taught when they cross the poles they will be numerous in any climate, although they have a different policy in va horizons A kind of hourly circles diflindum a prgdi&o; For they will not pass by the poles of the world, they do not divide them all the parallels of the Sun, except the equator, in such what hours fed every newspaper bow parallel to twelve water parts. equal on account of the nocturnal bow in the same number of times les parts are torn; which parts indeed talk
are called liora: in ae such as by which in the age at the end of the hour newspaper ma they are jores no hours Turns Qarefi ar cus daily of three parallels, for example tropical Can- cri, water, and tropical Capricorn, in two divide into ten equal parts, that the bow nodturns, and by three puns and juxta the horizon was drawn into the greatest circle a mouse; we will have a circle in the first hour. Yes indeed, we shall have three points by frequency the circle of the fertile hour, so forth, as in you see in this figure, in which the hourly circles are drawn they are only from the tropics to the tropics. Re- and this figure also prefigures the dimi diam fphtera only, that is to say, which it is from meridian to meridian yielding yet he will be able to fumble the turns at a high level right half; for there are such two hemi- fpaeria between women and girls Eflpoftre- or something else this circle rum an hour riorum ge when in front of neither diaries coinciding Although no god they see the end 'slC parallel throats in equal parts, in in which they meet with the hourly circles of the pri My kind, however, do not go through the poles of the world, in which they are divided by the same thing, and mu from or- with the hourly circles of the fecund kind conve- cca- niunt And these circuliita in lphtera defcri- will be: All the parallels of the Sun are divided into twenty-four parts sharks, at first fa- to from the western horizon (fi hours more We had trusted the Italians, of course, from the beginning beginning of the sun) or from the eastern horizon (We wish to be freed from the rising of the Sun after the manner of the Babylonians, or of the Infula of Balea HMXtby- rium) And through the punishments near the horizon du- indeed c-tur c; rcu{u; in a similar way to pun let them continue until they have twenty four circles, one of which is the horizon, fi cut in the preceding genus fecund: This yet in order, as the horizon becomes a circle lus vigefimg quartq horte. Then more Taloruni, the first circle on the western horizon cidentalifitcirculus first; hours; producing
fruitful, But the manner of the Babylonians Balearic and Infula, the first fupra the horizon becomes a circle from the eastern side in the first hour, bringing forth fruitfulness, These are true the circles touch two parallels, which between constantly appearing are the greatest, touching that they put the horizon in twenty-four of them Ctis, in which the original hourly circles eofdemfecant: For be made by these points are sung by the circle touching those who are paralyzed los, all other parallels will be divided by them intermediate also into twenty-four parts aquales, at the beginning of the smoke from the horizon, as con flat from i8. propof. z. lib. Theodofii. what mnia infuprapofita shape will be able to confpi- ci, in which the hourly circles are drawn from the tropics only to the tropics, although all these You were not in a circle with murders with a leafy body of fire fphyra to the ammuffim they want to be drawn. Therefore these circles are conceived and they are to touch the parallels DN, GH, in
twenty-four points, in which from the circles The original hours are divided into twenty four parts water; And the figure of God was born only half a fphara from the south through the neck tooth to the south, be it the manner of the Italians we want the hours: or from the south by the east tem to the south, fi hours from the rising of the Sun let us understand: But then, in the twentieth place, three times such an hour must be set at the first hour: and for vi- gefima fecunda, fecunda: pro gefima pri ma, tertia, I understand, however, that one half fphario, the other can easily be understood, although the two hemipharia are not fint in this three times, daughters. Yerum to make this all better be conceived, this figure together with Synopsis s putting everything before the eyes, presenting Totm, n we married grctpbi# identify In which deference ABCD is the middle of the circle points I will divide it into as many hourly spaces; circle EFGH Artis magne Book III. Pyotbiorhe Part I EFGH innermost parallel maximum fem- by appearances; the outer circle of parallel maximum femper delitefcenti um; circle oblique horizon, who touches the deep parallels in pumflisSK, in with which he makes the same for the meridian KOm, in with which point O pole efl; reda POq, it matters circle hours i aflronomica, fiveanteme laugh, ii pofl meridiem; circuiusPSRT efl hour i before sunset, or touching sunrise didosparallelos in pundisPR, in which the circle PORq, makes eofdem, a semicircle fcilicetPSRab ortu, reliquusRTPabocca- I was And the arcs PK, SR, are horizontal fspaces a. So you see the whole with one glance hours from sunrise and sunset together with the flash the idea; from which the tongues were cut with one another they are so represented, the figure and table of the border, and the horology of Italy ca, Babylonia, Aftronomica of all kinds conflrui, as it is said in the decurfu of the work, feint for the whole hour of lines depends on this riarum 8c clocks folarium dodrina. Vana drca- Porto Iic two pofterior circles ho- lorumcon of rarer genera, although in one same indeed, the prodigal must be understood galls, as the first kind; yet they are not the same in all spheres. For they will vary these circles, let a fruitful race conflict, in as the bows of the day vary, acnodurni, as it fuses from the reason of defcrip- tion In the same way the same circles will vary tur, they indicate the fourth kind of hours, in in different regions, they seem to change parallel he was the greatest of all those who appeared. For the more oblique the sphere, the greater they are the daily bow of the boreal pines, and the bow nodurni minores: vero auflrali- a minor diurnal arc, and a major nocturnal one things; and equally apparent parallels, and touching the horizon, the greater. The ccdefiium of the Demos circles. The circles of the houses are circles greater in number than the whole Cce- the light into twelve parts, which the Houses they call the ftes, they divide. I'll tell you those famous houses in heaven; the parts in which obtain various domains. But when the old Aflronmen note that the flella- the strength and influence of the rum, not the foal for the tongue for the special nature of the skins makes them different all have the same influence, with which dam cxficcent, some things are cold, some let them heat the dam, some things in a different way, but which they affect in a different way that in another way the strength of the same body is au to be carried, but only diminished; which is not obfcure we find in the lights every day; For we see in common the seasons changes happen, the sun con the horizon tinge in the rising, or falling; Also with the same Exiflently in the south, or in the middle node. Si- duoivei we observe militarily because of the motion of the Moon; through it to happen here infallibly, maxirnafque you are about to be excited by the heat. What and who then all things to anyone in the other illuflriors with tears passing through these same places, be just pay careful attention, not diff it will come down hard. Because of this reason Pto Lemaeus carefully explained the ftells to these four places, especially with the Sun With this, I say, I noticed fent the ancients
they carry the whole body into twelve parts, in which especially, on account of the various fits and poles sion nes, felles various also efFedus in these in they produce more ferocious; which parts They called the twelve houses the cells. For they discovered it after a long wait twelve effigies of this kind in places to be blown by heaven But these two circles cim cutting parts, ccelefli- circles They named one of the houses: of which now we have a fermon. In which con- not all authors among fe they agree For some all two sharks make their homes; indeed some unworthy In any case, however, between fe they agree In the first place, from all that those parts of the world, namely the South, Oc Falling, Midnight, East, are called thistles nes of the world, from more recent angles, fire cupids; who indeed hinges, even if in- let them have clay pottery; Ptole however, the book Aflrological judgments of hearts, the summit of heaven, ib efl, the hinge of the mere he prefers the dian to all others. Secondly instead he places the eastern hinge. Thirdly the west Fourthly, and lastly, the hinge nodules They all agree who has any space between any two they divide the hinges into three parts parts, so that they have twelve rooms at home eyelashes They agree poflremd, because all both the ancients and the moderns, beginning with mae houses form the eastern hinge, 8c the rest diflribunt fertile fucceffio- even of the pawns because of the motion of the planets from west to east, so that I give fruitfulness the mouse becomes below the horizon from the eastern side, And of the rest: whence also the same beginning they all place the fourth house, the feptima, 8c tithes, since these houses are fruitful il they have the beginning of the fucceffion of the pawns on the four cardinal points of the world. But it is true in the diflribution of this order among fe not Aflronomi would differ, however, in particular others have a different reason for the division of houses I did it. For some, the ancient beginning smoking from Horofcopo, and all after AftrOftomqid eftyab horizon exparte orie ris (for Horofcopus is a degree, feu punftu that of the Zodiac, the fire of the ecliptic, which A zontum emerges at the beginning of each one, for example at the birth of any man, or at the beginning of any building, the whole Zodiac fe with the order, and the fuceffion of the pledge they are divided into twelve equal parts, the perfections of these parts, perquepoles Astrologers bring out large groups, who the whole heaven was divided into twelve watery parts let them decline, which houses they call cleftia there And so it happened that I divided heaven into twelve the houses of the children, which the Aftronomi divide the whole heaven into the twelve signs of the Zodiac through the greater circles, which are the expoles of the Zodiac And the beginnings of all trees shall be written; and indeed except that in the division of heaven into twelve houses dividing the circle, no let them pass through the principles of the pawns, when the beginning of something is fixed on the horizon will have existed; and that they should be conceived immobile les, when, however, the circle of twelve pots di- they are encircled together with the sky. It is true, however, that these circles are never to continue the same course, because the motion of the poles of the Zodiac. Let this be true tion of defcribendoru cceleftiu circles we would like to make houses, it will happen that there are many ftellae exifting in the boreal hemilpluerio vatjejamfuprahorizontem in pri I will go home; many also in the southern hemisphere fphrio contitutas not yet arisen fupra hori- I give the zonto in the twelfth, the last feu mother because whether or not that is contrary to reason even the first house of the cleft, and the twelfth. For according to almost all Aftrologists the whole the first house disappears on the horizon, whose the beginning is the horizon of ipfe. A total of twelve my house is broken on the horizon, whose 'Joannes the same horizon. Some, however, among of Saxony whom Alcabitius John of Saxony con- how they are numbered, the daily arc of Horofcopi in cx equal parts, in the same number I denied they die through which fe&ions, poles the world will destroy the greater circles of God seeing the whole heaven in twelve houses cilia coeleftia. Quadivifionenon folum two
ten houses are made among the poor; when sometimes those tem, becomes greater than those that lie on the horizon tent, but sometimes smaller, as perfect it is from the day's bows, and the night's Horus fcopi. It is also true that the homes of one day, or at night, in the houses of others God, or night, with one day, or the ideas of the rainbow Horofcopi maj or becomes the bow of another Horofcopi days, or knots. Some notice that they divided the water into twelve perpetually the watery parts, and by means of faith, and the world the poles of the circles of the houses of the clefts De Cltculls Ctde(Ilius i they drink; and in this way the houses of the aquatic femper they were shaking The cat is the same for all these it must happen, that which is priorious; feverish moreover, from all the Aftrologists already this reason lest heaven should be divided into twelve houses are excluded Why all the more recent vo to avoid inconvenient prey, fem- throughout the entire forest zontem, so much; below the same, they go another I made a method cceleftiu the circles of the houses, not by the poles of the Zodiac, or the poles of the world fed by the poles of the vertical circle properly said, this is through common beliefs of the southern circle with on the horizon For this reason, with half tes of all circles at home whole rum? fint the horizon; as well that complete fub on the horizon so that the horizon let the fub go in turn of one circle, very easily avoided all things provided will be inconvenient. xifcren Moreover, these authors also differ between faiths. pretend pant, when some aquatics conftituant om- rm. let the houses cool, but some let them make Carrtpdniis r Syflemdjt. erm, who -many graves Au-Campanum is Thores, about vertical light properly speaking between the parties the aquatic part tur in lingulis quadrants among the trembling hinges client intercepted so that the whole vertical in twelve pairs it becomes watery distributed Through these before parts, po vertical los properly taught this is, through the common faiths of the southerners on the horizon, it will bring larger groups of fex divide the whole heaven into twelve equal houses; you will make a figure in which ABC is the meridian D. verticalis properly didusBD, ejufq; poles the second But John of Regio mount not vertical Regiomott circle, led sequinodialen! into three equal parts in the four quarters between the car of the world he divides the polished dines, so that the whole water is divided divide it into twelve equal parts parts, and the common faiths of the meridian with the hour zonte, this is, by means of the vertical poles properly, from He will destroy the larger groups, which distribute the whole group light into twelve unequal houses, with a spire let them also divide the circle into unequal parts, as from the text of Theod. conftat; eoq; they will become unequal more, the more oblique Iphgra was, as may be seen in these figures squalesj Appeal xes stepmother of houses Artis magm Book waters, since the aqueduct coincides then with a vertical circle. John calls DC The region of the mountain is divided in this way light in the twelve houses, rational, which it becomes more reasonable to all others, and more ex the death of Confentaneus. But Campanus and Re- Giomontanus is among the fools, and all the others do, in in the order of these houses It is based on the following figures, in which no the mere houses of the clefts were put to death. For the beginning of the first house is next to each of them it smokes from the horizon in the eastern part the tooth of the horizon, so that it becomes the end of it on the horizon; which indeed the house called the Thistle, the cup, the fire at the east corner, horofcopus, and ascending, because from below ri hemifpharium is raised to the left. De from thence it flourishes below the horizon give the house, which Successor I give to Horofcopo it is called a mouse. A third is made when desired, which Falling from Horofcopo is called. To this the fourth house having the beginning in the meridian circle below the horizon, which Cardo, cuffs, feu corner ftis, or even the corner of the land is called Then the fifth house, which di
It is said that following the bottom of the sky, the fire is at the corner of the earth. Lust is produced by the girdle, with which it falls from below it is called heaven. To whom the first day begins from the far west horizon, !Protheoria Tarsus I do, cuffs, call the west corner of the fire there Then he fubfeques oiftava, which Succe the angle of the tooth is said to be the right hinge. The ninth is made when Cadens falls from the occafu is called To this rurfusfucces the tenth, whose the beginning of the year is in the south of the south the horizon, which is the corner of the cup of fire it is called the south, or even the middle ccel. Then the eleventh is made, which succeeds it is said to be in the middle of heaven. the twelfth the end of which is on the horizon from the eastern side tis, by which Cadens is called out from the midst of heaven. Of which the perfect is made, these twelve I divided the house into three classes: In which the first contain the first, the fourth, the fifth, and the tenth house, which they call Cardines there, that of the rest was like a thistle nes, in fua fignification stronger. According to da clallis comprehends the fruitful without so, otftavam, and eleventh, which Suc those yielding are called Cardini, or Se I have found a fertile place let them deny their insignificance. The rest of mum four, as the third and the twelfth is completed with the third clef which C adentes are called hinges, that in faith there is almost no power of figuration let them have It is not to be forgotten, however twelve houses left by the Aftrologists they will be struck in a square shape, when they let them smoke, as you see here. OECO HEAVEN GRAPHICS YOU ARE Caterum, what planet, what planet, what dve point of the ecliptic in each house to be found, in the ufu Aftrolabiignonomici do we will receive. V. On the Circles of Desires. The policemen are the chief of the circle things through the common fechones of the south with the horizon, and the centers of the faiths ince teeth Whence the manifest will go, I give the circles the morals of celeftium of fitions, when, of course, the the ftrum existed at the point of any house. Therefore, from the preceding figures, cile the circle of pofitions are intelligent. usually also the circle of pleasure of whomever one pleases appeal D'e. Circuli Qdefiibus tion rfos cirtu- to be called Horizon Itellse, because the fupra ip- the strap jtofi- furn then arises the ftella. They are invented but the circles of the police, as through them co- let us know whether it is a thread, or a point elsewhere quo d cadi, it is done at a certain point of the house cce- left or whether it is not, as much as? V L Of the Circles of Latitudes: Circles of latitude are larger circles eduCti through the poles of the Zodiac, and through losgradus in the ecliptic: wherefore they will be in number i Bo. when each one is punished by two ecliptic points Oppolita tranfeat In these circles those circles are also contained in number, which they make the signs of the Zodiac in the third reception, as the lower sphere is declared, but the office of these circles it is necessary to measure the width of the feet tudines For the width of each ftel- Saturation $elts qttidl j an arc of a circle of width through the center ftellaeincedentis, between the ecliptic, &ftel I understood them. And it is double, Se Northern, of course, and Southern; as the star from the ecliptic turns to Borea, and He turned south. Be careful, though Those larger circles which pass through the poles of the Zodiac they are led, in common, by Aftronomi di the latitudes of the circle are sung, since see The widths of the flowers are measured with delicacy; after yet they fear to be addressed also to the broad circle the smaller circles of tudinum, which through Ungulos degrees of these majors from the poles of the Zodiac pfi parallels of the ecliptic will be described: que only the smaller circles, which from the top of the head through the steps of the clay circles ver parallel to the horizon are called, fupra the said fuerC circle of heights, however the vertical circles are measured, the height of the latter tudines V S L rDe Circles of Decimations. Finally, the circles of declination are cir big asses, clean and dirty the poles, and by means of the degrees of the equator. Why will there be in number with anyone? by two degrees you will be equal to the opposites of the tran- nlio feat. In the number of these circles conti- ftella.
the Meridian is also spun, and all the circles clocks indicating the hours from noon. Office but it is for two circles to be measured rum declensions. For there is a decline of the declination of each arc of the circle through the center of the tranfeufite between equal tore, &ftella Which responsibilities fo it is twofold, the Northern Southern, according to the re-lorunted aquator he will have to go either to the North or to the Meri day True, even in common these tan and the larger circles which pass through the poles of the world they are brought down, they will be called by Aftronomi circle of declensions, because of course the declinations of the leaves are taken; not in pte, however, they may also be called cir the smaller circles of the ass of the declinations, which per the minor degrees of these majors, from mun the two poles will be drawn parallel to the aqueduct; how about the circles of latitude ximusmon eniiji have a little ufurhin the composition of the Aftrolabius gnomonic circle smaller latitudes and declinations, as it will be seen at will. CHAPTER II I will kill you fourfold Horolabiorum. which emanates from these divine hours. It is true that he did School of the Stoics, tem pus effenorm of things And every day, because it is true the index of the state, and the exa mind is, and the gefta of things rum memory, and for a long time it protects against thirst; they really don't A few are worthy of praise, who are the laws of the times tying the fugitives with chains, or we, menfes, days, hours retraCta, itapraz, and things would be permanent, genius fo fane have tried. Since for time becomes nothing else than ru menfura of the first mover while before, afterwards, Philofophus tefte; but this menfura of all men The rule of actions is made to confufiondm vitan I'll give you a flume: I'm sure it's time for the priests torches, while the name of the hours is time nor would he fibconfter, for daily action Cen outside lta. they called the serpent; no strange, as the poet says, Demeret buys horses with the yoke of Phoebus. Also fix the time before noon they said s&mWwaip&t, meeting fci- at that time in the council of men, as He- fioduS says AV dMfidbjJ i. no) u. envns apva. c Homer portrays the South by Jpvnwi nay Athenaus, with a word most of the ancients were of old age In Latin it is also called tempeftas: in what manner the day look at the fuse we are dealing with in the Oedipus zhgip- dmiebm. tiago The same can be said about the ancient Hebrews. who had the Day in the Morning, at Noon, and in the Evening they divided the ram, which they called Partes Horas. So Pfal. For the whole in what toorpartes (which Vigilias called tjdivifum they offered The first watch was from vcfpere: Second ijS Artis magm Book Qrotheor Part I. Gnomonic from the beginning f4t. The second from the middle node: the third from the dawn: A quarter past noon. Whence some conclude dunt, Prifcos horarum fpaciis caruiffe: per purse For Gnomonic art, and hour rum dittrihutus from the beginning, it's easy Miperiuadeo, the queen of the ancients in finding things, he was more skillful I will trust, for with those things, of which I shall not be without we use the neceiTario, ma we judge the most useful, it is certainly not verifiable thousand, the first mortals ufum Mufic, vo and the more distant the intervals, the less quenceffaria, invenifle; My gnomonic not difficult, more difficult, neglect the whistle What happened, Philofophus, tefte, time is the number of movements, and therefore of other men; It will not be necessary or the old ones caruiffe at the time when the actions were menfu t, or do not extitifle the rude Gnomonics. rarely iAiamum TttviJfeGno- monica and such instruments of horology are ancient, from Italy, where most of them flourish, Aftronomy at least, indeed 5c Aftrology almost all to Adam as their first parent, and they relate the progeny of each. But who it is hidden, neither of the Iphras nor of the Gnomonic to laugh? For the division of time which fum- I will not be confused. So it was Antiouiffima in certain parts of the day. Call the hours ban; the principles of which sails; I spent many hours in my books
it is clearly indicated. Exodus p. Deut. i8. Efd. c. z. Job mention is made of this half, &chap. For three hours they continued to pray. Ecclesiastes One hour will remain with you. Everything the work of Horafua Chin: If the ancients had hours, I have they will also be the victims by which they are known They came: therefore they cultivated Gnomonics. from the rising of the Sun to the sunset, which is an artificial day it is Or they preferred Aftronomi from the south to begin the day with a circle, as from the horizon: since Clavius teaches us to use in chapter The sun, and the other, have the same fempermodofe refpedumeridiniain in all rigor; not au tem refpedu of the horizon, which is a wonder in mo while it varies in a greater or lesser proportion elevation of the pole below the horizon. There are therefore two hors, of which eti- Horaqua am in the previous ones, it is equal, &les e'" inx sharks equal in the garden, on which days of birth tural is distributed, they are nothing else than I will be twenty-fourths of one natural day; of which the fingul of fifteen squatters gra therefore they contain; they are said to be equal because they are the same during the whole year in size, by the fact that you mold fifteen The degrees of the roofer are given, which are all ae what kind of time fpacio fupra horizon they sink Twenty-four hours later the natural day is gnawing at the books; the beginning of which from one thing to another and hence Find out how the hours are counted differently by others then it is For the Babylonians, according to Pliniolib. Macrobius lib. Saturnal. call it a day bant the movement of the Sun from one rising to another um (which at this time the Infula imitate Balearic Islands) and about hours from sunrise they were whispering; which are counted by the majority in Babylonia. They are said to the writers, because at The Babylonians were in flight. Athenians au once upon a time, and now all Italy together with Bohe- mia, they determined the day from one sunset of the sun adoccafumalterum; and hence the hours they numbered the people, which were already called Italian of the mafaciendi ge j of these in Horologio Achaz, in The Egyptian Oedipus Moreover, the ancients tus in ufufuifle Sciatheric horology, de-, shows the expression btAmmt for the hour cce- litc: or cuu because of the marks of letters lingularum hor diftigante, teftatur of the Clock at Athens nxum: t t4 E? W hettdm ai (JA7 OJj-mi IIefytaafn i'tiuo(A'u ZH1 fiiyxsa lipjran. . Namante Z. H. were Since then the light of the world has changed Cultivated by the discovery of various things, Diwrfs would cover a longer period of time; to use the beginning of the natural season among different nations menfura divcrfumfeiit conftititutum; so dive in! do what what are the reasons for the hours they are For Aftronomi the beginning of the day fta- tuntin the south, that the Babylonians in ho on the eastern horizon; Italian non-western con- they are crying; Egyptians and Roman priests a the semicircle of the meridian nodurno, which is in- Then the shadows, and not even Aftronomi, the whole the time from noon to noon they called di em: therefore I counted the watery hours from noon Tabant- That since from Aftronomis in Horafir they are stolen away by the movements of the heavens The Egyptians and the Romans came to be called Aftronomic finally, by the author Macrovius lib. i. Satisfied final The Roman people count the day bant from the middle node to the next productive one half a knot, and from here you can escape for hours They offered what Ecclefia also Rohora Catt&r mana in the celebration of the feasts, But he offers the younger ones to the Gauls, The Germans, the Hifpans, and almost the whole of Europe f now they are in ufo, from Aftronomic hours, Aegvptiifque do not differ much, since these are all twelve hours of sharks rent from the south to the middle knot, as many that from here to the next south. Commun therefore only from the south, or the middle by the numbers of the hours, these differ from those they will fra the horizon: that the confluence is still in the sharks a part of the twelfth Ecclefia permanfit: The people count the day j mat 'De yariis horarum Jbeciehm What becomes of this day, how artificial you are. divide va ttuequa was once called every artificial day, and lh- every night into twelve parts
between faith, daily durnasnodurniseju-the same night. They are au tem unequal hours, twelve parts of Thee of parallel gments, which the zontem are confpicuous, below the same la tent or that it returns to the same, the twelfth par tes of daily and non-daily bows of all parallels; which parts when in fnhera reda at any time of the year i q parallel degrees of equal time fpa that is to say, the horizon of the afcendents they deny, nothing differs from the equal hours. Other terporro resfehabet in the oblique fphaera. But that in the unequal hours of old Judsi, as He trusts from the letters of the authors, and not even the Romans, and all the ancient times, use the past, and smoke that the records of the mathematicians there, they used; and from this clock, which is called the ancient paplim, It is protected by a clock. From these also the watchful hours of knots mind, four, three hours assigned to each they were confounded; fed canonical hours Tiamnum is sung by Ecclefia. Of these there are many wise words of Scripture to be understood raeloca; as when the Lord says: Do not two and there are the hours of the day, in the beginning, of course, fado from the rising of the Sun to count the hours fit as fex ca they give at noon, and at twelve they finish there in the sunset of the Sun. About what hours Seder day DOT tDITttfl ia Vy nhyn Sa mrr? fni nra r&npy nyutpbm pn this to him: I found the days of the world common, and no The equals are divided into twelve parts sharks, which are called hor? sharks But that from these hours the clock ticked Horology Aehaz, Reflantur, Rabbi Eliezer, Abenezra, Jonathan, who calls it ptf other filyu1 px this is the stone of unequal hours: Rabbi Salomon in the Parufchoth of this place v3n the intrument of unequal hours lyum But what kind of thing it was, in Mathema Let us say, "Seda, giving to God. Perfius It also seems that these hours are too busy mention, while he sings: We snort untamed, which defames Falernum Sufficient, the fifth while the line is touched by the shadow. With these words he said an hour in the forenoon for he represents her as the eleventh of us let's count Martialis also lib. Epi- gram almost all artificial hours of the day This is a wonderfully complex epigram you Primafalutantes, and said the earth contains hor% He exercises the raucous third of the Caufidics In the fifth, Rome extended various labors. The sixth is the rest of the waters: the first will be the end. It is enough for the ninth of the shiny otiava paltzftris. He orders the extruhlos to break the ninth thoros. At the tenth hour of the books I went to my Euphemus; Controls ambrosia with your care. And the good cEthereo is relaxed netlar C ce far, He holds a large cup in his spare hand. Then admit the jokes, grejfu is afraid to go to the license To the morning noftra Thalia's place. Moreover, in the Sanhedrin book of the Talmud, two o ten odd hours mentioned by, The Hebrews do, in which man is from God they talk about the creation of a fanciful myth; fiction for it is read, In the first hour indeed God collected its dust. A fruitful hour it is a mafal of the body. They are in the third stage its members. In the fourth, the spirit is infused into him In the fifth, the fuper pedesfus ftetit. Horafexta, the fire at noon impoverished the names. Eve is the seventh conjoined to him. Odava The two of them fell to the ground, and fell run four Nona is forbidden to eat of the tree of knowledge. The tithes are given to him aha accepted On the eleventh, he cheered. Twelfth at the beginning of the knot broken is Adam. And these things I delivered mouse, such as those which occur most often in the works of hours; that we may know of the hour of the Saviour's death; about the third hour of the coming of the Spirit of Fandi, more easily when they meet each other they would be understood; with those evil times how fruitful are the hours of noftrasfum they should; fed fruitful Jewish the fire is unequal as it is. The second of the uneven hours includes those commonly called Planetary they call the hours: which indeed are called fic; that is to say, do not wash away at Sol's cur- fum, utirequales horte; fed to the dominant the planets are referred to. For when Fint Planc this feptem (who in this order with the former worlds
they will be found in the field clay at the clay hours of the day, and in order at home naris, and chiefs are called Aftronomis. For the fi first hour of the day is dominated by Satur nus, fertile will be ruled by Jupiter, the third Mars, the fourth Sun, the fifth Venus, the fifth Mer curius, feptima Moon, odava Saturn, no na Jupiter, tenth Mars, eleventh Sun, two tenth Venus, thirteenth Mercury, 8c finished fic Then the first hour of the day the fertile, the Sun, and so on, in order The speed of the planets is not that which makes them a little As we have seen before, the fed retrograde femper. But take this fruitful fchema. V Hom zArtis magm Liber HL ProtheorL Tars L
Wednesday ji I 2J. I c? l i? I td I SUI 2l f Jupiter
Saturday bl O1 S' ibd AI sl bl 4I Af bl4 And from this table more legitimate The planets are clearly arranged. For when the natural day continuous hours rfKsubnU near, it is neceffe, to be the first day of the Sabbath the hour is dominated by Saturn, from which the day of Saturn is called, on the first day of the day Planets are threatened in retrograde order which, between the two, namely the Sun, from which The day of the sun is called pifpoftio. Similarly the next day tabdx un- mo Luna, un de die Luns, in the rest em onwards. But why are there two? they were transferred to the planet, to the days of the denominator nations conftituettdas, brings reason jneonfonnn DionNicsuslib. exhatmony, feucon- you diateffa- ponantia which is called, with which one force yon all mu pious that the whole of Mufics should be contained, and that the sling I believed in the judgment of the ancients there For the dwelling of this kind is fortifying reason, and it with the ornament of heaven, orb that, and the order of the planets in order preparing, a certain concordance, noted in them, and notice: which day one by one the Planet was called side, the fertile day from the fourth Planet they name him, however, in retrograde order while they came together; as Saturn, the fourth the Sun takes place, then the Moon, then Mars, appears on the table. that trust the progreflum nose of some of the Planets, that in the manner in which it was done in the past appears: you will see clearly this difference of the Planets the origin of the feast day from the nature of the number which is a three-day period of twenty-four hours a completed revolution, makes it impossible, as Mira vk The planet of the day, as well as from the fupcrio-feptenarii reshape it, then from the adjunct fohoc triple ma-number it is plainly clear. Mufficum something he has, inMufica noftramundana hieroglyphics, by God's favor mouse But let me tell you more about this kind of thing he had trusted to the property of the hours, he qusin Sciatherica Phyfico-aftrologica tra we have learned, let him also trust John deRo- jaslib. Planifphaerius chap. ad. Politianum Mifcellan. chap. S. where Dion the Egyptians of his order, thores, and others, which for the sake of brevity fa chosuis Therefore, from unequal hours earlier The days of this kind once received a name runt, which indeed they still retain; from in the hours, I say, of planetary hours, and Planetifque ho rare But it is true that none of these is Solar, either Sciatheric, whatever, so far accomplished the light was the clock; but we are below we shall stumble upon the manner of the hours of which of bringing down the clock, and hence this in Instead, more should be said about them. And from this four times the hours ge to spin, fourfold, too, ge the nut has sprung up. The first of which is Ho-Mofieith0fa rare from the south, and the middle node, that you, and we say the Aftronomic clock. Al- three hours from Occafu, which is commonly known as Yes it is called a lake. Three hours after sunrise which is called Babylonian. Fourth in short, it is called an ancient clock, the Jewish fire, fired by the princes, into the sharks of hours, because the sharks arc the days through divides the head into twelve parts; from which it is made, as the hour of one day, or of one night, when the Sun is parallel to any of them through runs, fint equals between fe, or hours of the other of the day, when the Sun is at another great parallel when he arrived at the same place, the sharks
ready between fe days, and parallels, which truly all differ in size, as of today femper craft are compared, with the exception of those who squidiftant Aries and Libras. And so it was the clock is nothing but a figment bile to the movement of the sky indicating the hours: and it was or rXV Plane Clocks! either natural, or artificial, or a mixture of these then Natural Natural is a clock that abfque art, or rather the time of the adions every day anis diftindu o(Sells, how the reciprocations of the sea in Hibernia, in reliance
natural logia are calculated. Horology The artificial things are again various; or indeed they are Mechanics, such as those, surround the quasrotars they show the time by lighting; or Solaria, de with all of which, we have been forced to deliver it to you. Mixed lUUAjJiUUdLiUiiUD llleli-lO uvriiia, j In Sicily, and in other places: Paroxysmal fever, from both natural and artificial compounds the explanations of certain flowers, what he stumbles upon through fympathy, as The song of the Gauls, the Cynocephali of the Egyptians dus repeated twelve times, and his daughters; of to which see Oedipus noftrum, between the hours exprofeffo we are to be hated, fupervacaneus I think we should stay here longer for them. Why to Plana, in which the said horology If they are delineating, let's turn the pen. C A P U T II I. Of the Dlanors, or of the Superfai, in which they delineate the clocks tur: variety The same is true of any matter I do not desire to do anything else He trusts logic. Everything, then watches are available tus: for some things may be made heirs, others should be exhausted they lie, some decline, a certain inclination they swim, some have a mixed body. Situation the denomination of this plane has arrived in the order not to the place; a vertical line defines this which falls outside the ruler, the width, beyond the meridian, the longitude De to whom it now falls to us to say. First, therefore, I understand the name Plane whatever flat work, iii which describi Horologia Sciatherica, five Solaria to take refuge; which, as they are varied, are not fattening little difference, so also a variety from Ar they are strong denominations, which we shall open in this chapter. It is smoked but on both sides, that is to say, both fat and denomination, from cceleftibii circles, with which ae- let them know who is allowed in the primary place let the equinoctial circle obtain; in reason yet of the clocks, as regards the eorun he was born, not undeservedly, in an equal circle ctiali, we would prefer the liorizont, when it happens I am unfaithful to the foundation, and the mustache of the rest, as He will tell us almost everything about him soon it must be done first of all. z The plane is therefore horizontal, which u tontde' horizontiaequidiftat, that is, the level plane then, five to the little book. as shown in the figure here the plane A must be attached, so from it the fit of the rest of the planes is easier be found; which also to the end in the same plane A, drawn; are the lines KL, MN, those for the meridian line, this for the vertical line: whose duty it is to mdnftrare four the regions of the world, the east, the south, Occafu, and the North, as they were recovered names also indicate For when you give let the lines die at the corners by the weight O, it becomes that I become one of those, such as I am too much for KL, it will upset the South from one match te, for example K, so on from the other part L, North, the rest of the line MN, He will indicate the rise of the ex parte M, Occafum ex on the part of N, that which is already attractive to many verified For some, Italians the fit of the planes will be determined. For all things they are flat or red to the horizon, or inclined to the same: and both red or else they should reflect on any one of the four from different parts of the world, or at least from the same place they lean whence he does not understand, as many pretend Differences in planes: which are in a certain order to be enumerated, the beginning will be to smoke, a planes return to the horizon more than the rest of the state, which, indeed, are said to be vertical which are equal to the vertical circles, which ipfi are returned to the horizon. That's all First, therefore, between the vertical planes of the primary meets the proper vertical plane, which
is equidistant to the proper vertical, this is that rise vertically above the horizon then from the equidistant line of the vertical line M N. Cujufmodifuntin prefentii piduraduo walls B, F, in which a double confi- dere fuperficie: one, which ipfa Pro- He opens the fpediva, and removes the incompetent Septen a trinity, that you may make fuperficies; but the other, which He reflects the south in a straight line, as in the wall we have written to be imagined in the face of the op- greedy Hence also the double clock vertical rise denomination. for that which will be carried on the southern face wallB, is called a vertical clock Southern, feuAufirale; which is true He was born in the face of the Northern fire Borealis, called the vertical clock Bo- real, five to the North. In the second place among the vertical planes, the number ranted PlanZ ver tical mere diano cqiti dijlan Tlanii ver tical decline nan Artis magna Liber IlLfProthmia Part I rantur meridiana, which is a meridian circle let the equals teach, that is, what is beyond the horizon are raised from a line parallel to the meridian line nae, which two walls represent, H, in in which again there appears a double fraud What are the meridians of the double clock? no For the clock on the face of the East pa rietis D, brought down, is called Horologium Eastern meridian: opposed to this truth then in wall H, it is called the meridian Occi dentally Thirdly, in addition to the two plains already difta, which they are in one way regular, there are others as many vertical planes as Decli nantia, by the fact that they are equidistant from the circles turned slant to the primary vertical: which are compared to the four worlds gas, the univerfs will be recalled to four ge nera, which may be concocted in the rest of which the figures on the walls C, E, G, I, of which fa I do not look at any particular part of the world there For you will face the wall C, opposite, which He could not prevent the future, It reflects the South and the East, neither of these remove the men's part. Look at the clock drawn in the same manner, will be called de leaning from South to East. Similarly op- the polished faces of the wall and the clock in it that which is brought down, shall be called Declining aMeridiein Occafum, because it is obliquely in on both sides this stroke tends. But truly Ho rologium, infuperficie G, depicted, deno will be threatened Declining from the North in Oc cafu, on both sides of the swift world's plague, which he reflects; And on the contrary, the Clock finished in wall E, it will be called Decli nans from the North to the East, therefore that from the same sides that plane con- to be made x The development of PlanorZ A, Horizontal plane zohtale B, Vertical to South in fa cie oppofita C, Declining in faced with a South in Or then D, Meridianum Eastern E, Declining a in the north Rise F, Vertical to North G, Declining a in the north Occafum H, Meridianum Western Declining in faced with a at noon in Oc coffee KL, Meri Line diana MN, Vertical Line, Oh, the center. From these it will also be easily understood that ction of the Planes to the Horizon not straight rum For if the walls of this ejufdemfi may all be conceived inclined intro- fum, so that sharp corners are close to them the inclination is called, the vergus O; revenge The same walls are all flat and tall inclined For in the first place the two walls B, F,
inclined to the horizon, of which they are attached names First, if the wall B, the snake the nation has to complete the shark angle the height of the pole of the mind, that is, the angle of inclination of the equatorial nation, shall be called Horolo gium, in both of which I was carried away by fuperficia equinoctial ptum; indeed in the lower Su worse in inferior, Inferius. Then, whether there is no angle of inclination of the throat of the sharks inclination they will be called Horolo- logia on wall B, mm plum which pd. rid. ci i uuutm jr b the eyes are all flat, which are properly said to have been born to the Horizon, a kind of fupenus TPe f lartis Horolons. i6i Septenium, but lower to the Auftrum. T er- tion: Sianguius inclination of the wall F, nem-
Was he a shark? the throat of the high pole, so as to squidiftet, cir Aftronomicje, it will be said whether that the Horologium is as inferior as the fupe the river To polarize Fourth, if the angle is the same whether it be minor or major, it shall be said below, ad Declining Second, the two walls D, H, I dido abhoriVn. mod0, they are understood to be inclined, all things shall be plain and clear, Or and then, Occafum, who even the former do not like to be called inclined fed declining from the Horizon. For the first time Wall clocks D are said to be declining from the Horizon, lower indeed to the East, atfuperius adOccafum. . Then, however, Ho rology written on the wall will be said about inclined from the horizon, in the lower face ad Occafum, infuperioreadOrtum. Thirdly, and finally, the remaining four are equal tes, C, E, G, I they will show us all the facts a flat horology liquid, which they call fimul there Declining Inclined For in the first pa ries C will show a double clock, fu- the upper and the lower, of which it is called the uppermost inclined and declining from the south in the rise; and the bower of the bowed man declining from the North into the Occafum. Se- cundo, clock below on wall the record is said to be inclined downwards fi mul and declining from the south to the west, and eonfequently bent over declining from the North to the East. Ter tio, the clock on the lower wall, will be in inclined and declining from the North in Ortus; but it will be more inclined to be fi mul declining from the south to the west. Fourth, finally, on wall G, the clock the lower part will be inclined and will decline from On the north I went to Occafum, and from the opposite direction I was it will be more inclined towards the end and declining from South in the East. And from this is the origin and denomination of Pla of our Morologus, fivc reda that fint ad The horizon, five bowed, held by the femper for Ortus or Occafus, of the North or Beyond inclined, which; are contained in the fourth number, in inclined and declining planes, we would like to point out certain trends Dtdinan- tia, in- t linat a. the differences of the nations; we will find more other affairs of the Pleiades, in which Horology has a different shape they are given to the apprentices. And indeed in Inclinatis: Those planes, indeed nonfunr aquinodial, or polar jquorum that is to say, the inclination is not the angle of the tile the completion of the height of the pole, or ipfimet the angle of the height of the pole; Or they will have him a smaller angle of fuse inclination or the greater of the aforesaid angles. First, therefore, fi the angle of inclination of the wall B, smaller it was the inclination of Aquarius; day will be able A clock inclined downwards to Au north and south to the North, as it is considered a mere fourth ftans the great that fe- cat infra equinodialem. fcilicet exparte au- fraternal Second, if the angle of inclination was rit greater than the angle of completion of the height Poles; the clock may be lower again to be addressed to Auftrum, and further to Septen triune, and both of them are squidifting The circle that makes the meridian nodal Third, if the angle of inclination wall F, which we suppose to extend into Septen third, the angle of height po be smaller li: H clock is so lower, which is then In the north, the further it is Aft rale, it will be called an equidistant circle, which makes the meridian below the Antarctic pole. Fourthly, let fi be the same angle as ma jor, the same planes will remain the same as those who When did you learn the denomination last time? as regards the plagues of the world: which is true (steps to the circle, to which they jcquidiftant, say there is a circle of people who make lunches whether the pole of the pole was closed. The same principle can be used for diftinction on the declining plains, and inclined For the two walls C, I, which incline ver- fusMeridiem; veltequiaiftant in a circle ma ximo, who makes the meridian in the same pun cto with ajquinodiali, velfupra it pun- while or below: atq; so be the same walls as for each of the fuperficios they are called a
of the pre-eminent circles in which they it is fested, on both sides of G, I, in triples and in the same way the difference is triple there will be differences, walls E, G. ficonfi- derentuf, to the extent that they squirm in circles by the poles that make the meridian, or by the poles of the world, or below, or beyond the same poles. The following is a Catalog of all the pre-rich Planes, of which the rope is numbered Balanced Horizontally. Vertical, feu ad redo the horizon
Vertically to the South. Vertically to the North: Eastern Meridian. South West; Declining from the East to the East. Dedinani from Acridie to Occafum. Declining from the North to the East. Declining from the North to Occafu. tJfeSioii pf of planes inclined Then Jnclimta ad ho laugh at them Declining ah on the horizon f
Great Art Book III. Lvotheorix Fars I rifquinoitiale fuperius, fiveboreale. Lower equinoctial, fi ve Auflrale. Inclined to the horizon lower to the North, and equidistant the great circle, which makes the meridian below the equinox point initially Leaning towards the horizon further to the north, I rode standing in the great circle, which makes the meridian below the point se- quinoitial Inclined to the horizon lower to the Auftrum, equidiftans cir with the greatest ass, who makes the Meridian a fool, punished with initially Leaning towards the horizon further north, St. blowing in a great circle, which makes the meridian the fourth point ae five-night North Pole, five to Zenith. Pole below, five to Nadir. Inclined to the horizon below to the North, standing in the greatest circle of the Meridian below the Pole. Inclined to the horizon further to the Auftrum, 8t equidiftans in the greatest circle of the Meridian below the Pole. .Inclined to the horizon below to the North, and equidi- blowing in the greatest circle of the fertile South Pole. Inclining to the horizon, the north to the south, equidistant in the great circle of the South Pole. Declining from the horizon below to the East. Declining from the horizon further to Occafu. Declining from the horizon below to Occafu. Declining from the horizon further to the East. Inclinatum fimul St declining from the South in Ortuminferius, 8t? qui- breaking through the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian in the same pun ito equinoctial Inclined fimul St. declining from the north in Occafum fuperius. St is equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian in the same punished with equinoctial. Inclined fimul 8c declining from South to East below, quidiftant in the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian below thus equinoctial. Inclining the river and declining from the North to the Occapus us, and equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian below equinoctial point Inclined from the south to the lower East, and ae- quidiftans in the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian a fupra pun thus equinoctial. Inclined and declining from the North to the North East. Equivalent to the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian a fupra pun thus equinoctial. Inclined and declining from the South to the lower Occafum, and equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian in the same punished with equinoctial The steep bank of the St, declining from the North to the East, St is equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian in the same punished with equinoctial Inclined and declining from the South to the lower Occafum, and equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the meridian below thus equinoctial. The river is inclined and declining from the north to the north east, equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the meridian below thus equinoctial. Inclined and declining from the South to the lower Occafum, and equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the meridian a fupra pun thus equinoctial. Leaning back Declination
Le flanis Horologiis: i Inclined to the river, and declining from the North, and equidistant to the greatest circle which makes the Meridian a fupra equinox point.
Inclined and declining from the North to the Lower East, and pquidiftans in the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian through the poles. Inclined to the south and declining from the south to the west of Occafum, and equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian through the poles. Inclined and declining from the North to the Lower East equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian below po arctic light Inclined to the south and declining from the south to the west of Occafum, equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian below the pole aridicum Inclined and declining from the North to the Lower East and aquidifting in the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian ardicum lum Inclined to the south, and declining from the south to the west, and quidiftans in a great circle, which makes the south pole arctic Inclined fimul declining from the North to the lower and equidistant to the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian by po loss Inclining the river and declining from the South to the West, and ae- quidiftant in the greatest circle, which makes the Meridian through the poles. The river inclined and declining from the North to the lower East, and arching a great circle, which makes the Meridian below po arctic light: Inclining the river, and declining from the south to the north east, in the great circle which makes the meridian below the pole ardicum Inclined fimul declining from the North to the lower and arching a great circle, which makes the Meridian below po ardicum lum Inclinatum fimul 8c declinating from the South to the West east quidtiltans in the great circle, which makes the south pole ardicum CHAPTER IV. In this Fourth Chapter there are three things we will try to manage. Pri mo, we will teach Libells, of course intrumenti cujufdam, ad flat balancing, some other performance adjustments my Second, how the same bill it must be done in the dignifying planes, whether it is fint balanced, or returned, or even oblique to the Horus zon t em: &fifuntobliqua, how much she becomes obliqueness Thirdly, let us take the following account do not balance fint planes, or perpendicularity to or certainly in any particular to be inclined at a given angle. All these things are worth more hire mum, to Horology tumdefi- gnanada, then conftituenda i To say nothing, ea- A great number of things are the most important thing in others also geometrical and aftronomical for with complaints (the book of impofition And you will be surprised, be a little different Li- we will finish the war, which from c He hates to be confounded with artists; We have done this to extend its scope to more oar So we built it. Let the first of the two rules AB AC of the same latitude and longitude, Gno- monBAC, so that the same rules as let them contain the broken corner as well in the exte riori, than the interior coneurfu A. Then applied rule to the extremities B, C, no two lines are held by the same rule; they will depict two pieces from each subject to refresh the appetite, as you see in the figure. Artis magm Liber TrotbeorU Vars I. A Adhaee would be prepared quadrant DEF, ej us mag of brightness, to be perpendicular light D G, that from his the center must be does not reach the red BC fieadudaforet: both arc EF, is divided juxta the rules of the divine circle giving, in all gr dus, do you even register? mere to the tenth. force level to become aflo- let it lie in the bottom part of the quarter, beginning with the bottom of the ram; radius DE, which must not be the same as ex tremble on the side of the quarter, fed by the same difbare, so much as to be placed in a quarter in through Gnomon, as the figure indicates, &perpen- with the iron rod, the lead through the hanger does not touch the side of the gnomon: what must be understood also about the ra-! dioDF Whence it is collected, in the fiber of this of the quarter, first to take care of it, as two The outer sides are also extremely angular let them contain the return, so far as Iciicet con gruere pofilnt to the sides of Gnomon, enter which Quadrant is to be placed. Then two outer sides of it draw two parallel lines DE, DF, in due diligence, taking into account the craft
of a plumb line. And although the same the parallels must also be re- while they make it in the curfu D, such as eff the outer sides are cut, as, however, with the greater one let us proceed with certainty, to examine rit the same angle D, through different faspraxes. quas The geometry is prescriptive. Yes, you can re- we will divide them, be the first one of them let us lead, v. g. I will return DE, and then FUPER it is exafiiunpto the center D, which how It extends from both sides of the exterior, perpendicularly DF of the eye is erected, for it must be in the same fall operation To whom carefully offer vatis, finally, in the center of D, an arc was drawn EF, and carefully divided into degrees, as it is long, he will be ashamed together with the Gnome nor the Quadrant, and so much the Book ipfa, as We wanted to break up. According to those features, of which haftc- It should be mentioned that we painted when I was a perforated plate perpendicular What? fi in the center D, so it is fixed the vertical line will hang from the same forum mine is much freer than fi in the center D, fi He was a little shy. Indeed, from that hole fcendent rede, from the center of the necephal it is given; what? the reflection seems to interfere with the pofle free movement And for this same reason fam, the fuperficies of the quarter can be restored within the arch, and the sides intercepted; lest, and ipfa free mode vertical impe give which happens easily, no matter how exact flattened out Moreover, in the quadrant DEF, we affixed rmmtuu side DF, two perforated fins, which in- let them boil, when, in the same Quadrant, I relied Gnomon, it would be acceptable to use something high tudu, and other fpnilia, which through the Quadrant, or the Geometrical Square to be covered lent, as in the delivery of ejufinodiinstruments tion would explain Which fins the confederation requires this ri can, the ray through both holes miffiis, from iftat parallel to the side DF. F xadif I love my daughter and I love my daughter search for the manufacture of fins in Aftro the lip of Clavius lib. Can. where also into another you cut off a certain quadrant, which is in the acc with the reasonable offerings of the affairs of Aftron of mica has a great deal of importance. At the end of the day, it is appropriate to write a letter to have a rule of thumb not shorter than Diameter of the gnomon BC; and these two htU any opposite sides have parallels, so as the hunchback of the four fuperficies as to it may be done; fintlineae rede, and the same pa be made of metal, or of hard wood, and of wood, not very futile.
Vfm Libella in balancing, and in judging of the Balanced and unbalanced Tlans, Etfiad the beginning of this Chapter diftinxeri- miiQ inrcr fe fnfrnifinndm. niif) riicrno- 'mus, among feCognition, which I am worthy of it is made a kind of plain conftitution, from that col I believe in the location of the lowest plane: because, however, as far as practice is concerned, almost on both sides that is the reason; both are alive to be handed over, lest the same thing be repeated too often. Where Nineteenth ii ttea hori zontal in any repent indi born Of books and When, therefore, it was prophesied to others that the Plains that can be seen at the fenfu ho parallel to the horizon, and the difficulty We will decide whether the matter is so true: ficper We will help you with a small book. Sit propofi- tumplanum A, in the equappli liceturbella first fruitful length, as you see in the figure, so that the perpendicular hangs freely he gives, and he shaves off the Quadrant. And indeed the perpendicular has fallen in quarter degree, Plane A in neutral part will incline the fertile length, this is a fruitful line, more than or from by which the libella is raised. Or that the same from that line will squish on the horizon, somehow in other planes it is often called the horizontal line a matter about which I want to talk a little. If I am correct light from the level of or at least both in part will be bent, it will be dwarfed, flat, although the wind appears parallel to the horizon, but by no means be parallel, fed in to lean to that side, to which you lean he bends his tail. And then it will not be that ul Let us examine the same plane three times. If true fertile called the Longitudinal Plane
to be found balanced, to be tested the same will be the fruitful breadth, through the lem profus Libella application. And be Indeed, the line of latitude is also balanced we have found that this is also fruitful in this applicationelibell? , perpendicular wire gra while Plan A, completely it will be long, the end will be less, it will be tilted, Demonstration For one plane of the bill in that double placement, it represents two planes
vertical, that is, planes are measured by a wire ass duda zontem; it happens that those two planes of Libela pro- duda fe mutually understood to produce, let them do I will draw a common line of faith through perpendicular to the horizon, and thus parallel to the perpendicular of the Book. And yet perpendicular, is perpendicular to and a tram line of the same length as la It is evident that the trust should be carefully trusted a collision of bills. Therefore also that com the ramparts shall be perpendicular to the same lines of longitude and latitude. And for then the same common fee will be for und. nay, it was deplained by the ipfa duda, that is, Pla the letters which represent the vertical planes they will be by the eleventh, return to plane A, along those lines it has been a long time. Horizon therefore the plane A will be the same, this is the balance then For if they are brought back to the sea, they are flat vertical, as shown. There will be no other way to proceed, fi pla whether something is proposed to be balanced, this let it be made of some kind of board, or of marble leveled, it would have to be horizontal liter For the propofitum will be placed first the plane so that the fenfui appears in the proper places then Then through the notebook, place the same This will be examined at such a fruitful length and how broad it is, as it is And be indeed, descend into some of those parts it will be lifted up from it on the other hand, you eat wood blocks, or other material, until the perpendicular falls at the degree. And when it was painted on both sides of the plane, then finally the plane will be located is proposed. fiitelligimus but by line length, width security, any that two lines of defense, c? tranfverfales, do not pretend to be parallel. Llbtlu Despite the fact that fens fint business more accommodating qu fe fe faltem to judgment make it to the corners give back For if ex in two ways perpendicular to them the libel is properly set up la, it appears more easily bit dirtiness incl na c i fo rt e pia n u m the propofit does not happen balanced practices are absolutely required, to line in of inclination in inclined planes, qu? from Horus zontali will be delivered immediately. So it will be found A line From these further it is easy to gather how -in the rest of the plains, it was possible to find: the line Ho- rizhnti ajquidiftans, such as to fertile tAnis grande book III. Protbeorice 7ars I a horizontal line in any plane tilted, e. g. at level C, apply the Rule to it number prepared so as to be seen elsewhere balanced in a way Pofteaad corrected an error, which perhaps a fool admits, add be a book For she was duly raised, at once It will be shown what sin is, according to the hanger has fallen, or outside, or in the ip- mtn. step For falling perpendicularly he will take the level of the god It was made from the first investment, but so much so that the line on which this side will be drawn a plane, a horizontal line If not falls in complete the rule of the plane from that side which is long inclines the thief more truly, and so on and so forth until perpendicular step by step Who bus abfciflls will be conftituta again as a rule must And the timbers along the same line in the ip- fo the plane, it will be horizontal. To which I became be erected on the same inclined plane of the eye, that will be the line of inclination, whose pau We mentioned it before. Ettal is li why not both in plane C and in plane D, which one? through the middle of the same plane elt, to which fi may have parallel fintlaters, as in fi gura happens, they will be able to ipfa for the line inclination of the smoke. On the lower face of the inclined plane as regards the investment rule
the description of the inclination The gnomes are to be offered: but the gnomon is one application do not apply to the quadrant in the same way it will be bitter Nor the Gnome of eismbafeslate they touch the rule as before, the fed side V. g. AB fertile length rule? and will be lent For this reason we have to pay attention the tail will hang freely, and by falling in level The rule of thumb ftet balanced, so that anyone can easily conjug rite On the planes you return to the horizon way to find the line 2nventio rizontalemper libella, another easier, toeTinpu- frtaffis more certain, which is also commonly used tiKtid. Bori-folent Artisans. For they are near enough yontem re- wall perpendicular, and from the side of the wire they mark two pounds on the wall, by which? those poles they draw a straight line, and erect to it perpendicular, as the horizontal line is the case was settled. Where it is just offered while it comes as a straight line it will be possible to approach the wall, lest in no and whence is he committed to error. And therefore it is fitting that the weight e. g. the lead should have a broad shape, or long, but not long. They can and already the same punda is marked in the shade, as a certain thread perpendicular to the plane It casts a shining light, even that shadow it does not happen to be removed from the country of the son. For it is enough that the same shadow is made parallel to the perpendicular Lela: When it happens, the walls are really done brought back to the horizon, and treacherously flat. But that of the lower operations The rule of thumb is that this is not the case to be accepted, sometimes it becomes necefle, Libel la? to defend the rule, fed then the foium, quan so the plane is too small, or not through trust the plane In fact, the ipfa booklet will be able to do other things be applied immediately to the Plan, or while the mustache of Gnomon, as happens in the plains born on the superior side, or on the fertile side, as the case may be in the lower ones. In the same way as horizontal plane A, the same level you may see the fine rule applied. o. Now, let us come to the plains balanced, their conftitutio in this way inve- JuZlon he will die It must first be found by means of a properly balanced con number we said a horizontal line, flttlienda- which is erected perpendicular to it for li denial of inclination After that, I took a plane may be seen to return to the horizon, such as based on Plan B, will the line be applied? tendency nis latus Libeihe AB: &fi quidem perpen a dicle falls into no degree, this is The upper side DE will be close to the wall B while I fly towards the Horizon: I become less, I incline will be born And then, to find the angle in inclination, such clothing will have to be arranged Book, as you see it composed plane D, where the wire cuts off the bow FG, fire angle FDG, let's call him "Efele". angle of inclination And so on the other planes inclined For in the same way I will discover If the inclination of the plane C could be changed, I would take it elsewhere it will be pleasing to inveterate three times, as in that example we would snort, in the plains much inclined, Gra dus, even through ordinary composition Libell to be considered pofle inclination. For as it appears there, the thread falling on the DE side, the plane will be inclined at degrees. Sivero otherwise it fell within the quadrant, ldquod femper will touch between the sides DE, gra while then you will be inclined, who is intercepted between the wire, grad. and the angle of inclination will also be so great you The same configuration as the ordinary LibelR network it must also be said, when the plane propofi- then it was lower. It will be applied to them A note on the trend line, such as it is the right HQ, which must be imagined in the infe on the lower face of plane C, as you see in the figure; fall which is a perpendicular line within which and take away the bow of the inclination FG, a little bit of FDG, which will be completely eagle-like at the angle of inclination of the lower plane, fi to the wall C, in the same way it was broken, This means that both faces should be flat rallela And therefore, be in the same manner of walls in Another me thodia. Other me thodos li- btlUndi. On the deliverance of liletla plamfjue.
whichever face the operation is inflated, it will have the same level due to the hyclination the work will be found to be inclined to both the fuper of the fiction of the more fuper, than the inferior, as is clear. It will now go beyond the prefcribe- matter, by which any plane propofed or it would be raised vertically, or in to be pressed down at a certain angle: But because any one of you learned that method easily threw, nonefl that fruflrainretama- I would work hard. For manifeflum efl, then finally, the plane, verbigratiaB Efieredus ahorizontum the light of the perpendicular falls on the side DE: rur- fus Planum v. g. D, to have a due inclination the nation, the fi the number of degrees from the quadrant is recorded EF: and so much so that it does not happen, for so long a time to twist it flat, until Libella let us do our fate. Cseterum to the exaggeration and magif expe rich {jump plane placement, It is very useful to balance something first a horizontal plane, such as the plane E for when I go out, the rest of the place will be brought out very easily nay, even from the line fixed there. For be from the line IH, the plane B must be raised, by perpendicularly, we will first lead to the r HI, perpendicular to KL, then in the plane B, we will fix another line HI, that we erect a perpendicular KM: and finally, the repaired parts which are below the line am HI, we will raise the same plane B, .ex re cta HI, so as to redaKM, corresponds to the side of gno a warning applied to the red KL, as in the figure you see; this will enimfadoftabit plane B, per perpendicular to the horizon. Severo pla whether e. g. C is made to incline from the reda HN, it will be led on that plane in a similar way to reda H N, and to be erected perpendicular to it OP which will be the line of inclination, to which fi be accommodated to the Libella, and the plane of the ipfum about the rein HN, be inclined or raised, until the level of the propofite level let him cut off his inclination, as he had done before; obtained do not drink even plain C, fuumfito. And so about the rest ix. However, there is another way to raise it flat, I am going to say fortaffi: that is to say, first be prepared from some file, the corner of which is inclined of a nation such as Efl: IHQ for that reason I inherit perpendicular to the horizon E, it is done didus efl; from plane B, and indeed from line H what I will return to HN, I will return the corners be the plane C, about the reed HN, so inclined there, as his fuperfices, in which HN exiflit, falls to the far side of HQanguli prconflrud. and in it will be established very easily, fuppofi- tis every support, fi fortaffe to be strengthened can be seen And so in the Planes which by this art to ho they have been broken up, or redo, or bowed down, it will not be horizontal by inflrument mouse, so that there is no line of inclination: indeed we have already put it in a little doubt on plane B, redo HI, and on plane C redo H for both of them horizontal line when it exists in a horizontal plane; maybe snow elsewhere in the same plane other horizontal li there would be no leadership. In fact, by accepting then they will be punished, as before parallels are made to them, for thus, &ipfae They will be level with the horizon, as is clear. Indeed, a true-to-life technique must be used I found it in the airy planes, as regards to draw a horizontal line, preferably in much inclined planes, in which the the truth can hardly be found out when the war is over the conflict of the great line, because of the multitude even the lines that almost everyone loves the balances of the fi are examined by the bill. Hence the fortafils are not bad in the same line then we will investigate in this way. Near the plane inclined v. g. C, we will locate the plane R, and we will balance it carefully, as God while efl in the fifth number we will produce any two or more rules object lines in the same plane R, marked until meet at plane C, where v g. H. O. N. all that will be in one line reda HON be the plane R, it becomes double, and thus the same lineHON, will be horizontal, than to draw it was necessary They will be seen fortaffs to this chapter ffede also those manners in which you pervert trends of Horological Plans which I will give Viatoria, as they call it, and the poles are accommodated at different heights
they have helped to give; which also Clavius per- It is done in Chapter iib. flee the Gnomonicfaeos nevertheless, with the support of the passers-by, I by the fact that they see the clocks of those travelers tur in a certain way proper, and so when with the same conflrude more conveniently they will be delivered. No one will be surprised by our planes balance here more than once parforfan efl, tradiffe When the book the basis of good practice it is done, as you can, at the end of the calendar of March nothing can be successfully accomplished by a nation; ipfa ve This tradition has been handed down for a long time He seemed to be taking revenge. CHAPTER cArtit magm Uber III. Protbeorh Tars 2t CHAPTER V Of the Various Pafiions of Horolabiomm, i. 'rD Cofmocentric Clocks. in the center of the third bell It takes place on the plane in which no matter what, I don't care nor by reason of difference ret a coelefti, fempera- just show me I will never be idle everything would lack refraction, even fi vapor they would blow things up; in fact the vapors are at an hour the logs in the center of the confection are homocen- three whence all unrefracted rays penetrate rent, that you may go to any punft nor evils; in clocks, however, they are eccentric eccentric; hence the greater refraction of the rays it would be in the center, m whose plane is the gnomon on the meridian axis He immediately re-evaluated: I say that clock the same will happen with the horizontal polar; spring the future is the same as the horizon such a fub fphrera rccfa, flve verti calefub pole. The reason is clear from the conflict. If therefore whether something should be so inclined to the axis, that he would make a sharp corner, in that joke the clock is the same as the clock, that the pole be at the same angle of elevation it would be in the oblique fsphere. The same, then, in a different way tas planes in the center tcrrre to be trusted who can do the same thing in it; completed as a horizontal and vertical clock noon; nor the greatness of the earth fta caufiit, fed fit of a vertical line, which ip- he acquires the right to the axis of the world, and to the south whether any one was determined; this The divergent planes are not linear the size of the earth: So they differ only so it will be done, that the cofmocen trical horology, to use they would have no discernible horizon so that there are hours on either side of the plane they would point out, in plains indeed to the axis blicus would be given a double Ortus, no Occa- for making a curfew fuum in it will be done on that plane and on the other side of the plane qtiodperpe- ftatim poft tranfite of the plain to the other part your hours orjreEur, &fic would make a perpetual clock The sun is never free, hence the plane a transparent fet, to present a shadow in each that part of the plane for hours perpetually; and in in all such planes to the axis of oblivion who would have the curfew of the sun by the way of mo of the day But in planes parallel to the axis, or the same being brought to the slaughter, movement the annual Sun is perpetually in either plane partoftendere Here: everything in the fuperficia they should not be made outside the center at all. But to conclude many things in a few, while in the centre land: all line: sly, all vertical horology should be said, than horizontal, when there is no friction to be given It is not a horizontal plane rat But heretofore we are re-read as Asmirnt to confueta us horologia pen con we turn E II. Confessions of the Various Planes conditions S Vmtepla- Olariahorolabiain polar planes bus, meridians, a: quinoftials, ,wtfi everywhere the places are the same. For that it is a horizontal fub pole conftruum, this everywhere there is a schedule of places and nations xquinocfliale: and what hour the clock zontale is fub fphara reta, in every place rum, and the clock of the nations is polar; I turn the clock vertically from the pole it is the same with the polar opposite; the clock vertical fub ffera straight, is the same as no ftro JEquino&ialifub fphaeraobliqua. II. All clocks turned down to the hour zontem are horizontal clocks re- fponding those peoples, of whom there is so much the width of the five poles, how much is the au- the inclination of the throat to the horizon in the didto clock But of these in the fertile fufi- us III. Omniplanum Sciathericum
whereas it is the horizon of any other place. And since the leaves are flat places parallel to the same the same pole is covered by the pole, the same ele they have a pole position; from here it is done, the leaves are flat they touch the same parallel plane tia effe height from the pole of the sharks, the rest everything is different: Hence, among the three primary flat in the same place, no south ever has the elevation of the pole, vertical true in the fphaera recla fummam, obliquely fphrera intermediate, in parallel none? against the horizon the smoke in the fphsera is parallel la, in the oblique middle, in the return none. IV. Deviation from the primary vertical which follow the height of the pole, which it has the primary vertical, and the more they decline, this less elevated pole of the plane they had fuum Declining from the horizon You will never be equal in elevation a horizontal pole V. Infphaera render no plane ad. inclined horizon, in parallel ra no deviating from the vertical, any plane height eDe vanis height is obtained; they are, for all primary vertical In jfphsra italics, except for circles of the aftronomic hours, the rest are all others How high are the poles strong? VII. The southern circle of all from ho it declines most in the horizon of those who decline. The vertical is the first of all the inclined ones towards the horizon, it is very inclined. spring tical declining is any mixed incli- We are born and declined. VIII. All clocks are horizontal at any latitude they become vertical, iisinplaces, to which the height of the water is equal given the width of these For example, A horizontal rome is a vertical shark, in in every place where the height of the water was rit of such a breadth of that place, to which I the collision was horizontal; that is, to them feet in width for the inhabitants; for these the equator only to the south of the horizon, when then the pole is raised for us. So horizons le gr. lat. Asquale is the vertical width s. rv. Of the various fuperficiebtis, in which pojjimt to throw the clock TUnxcir- C Uperficies, in which the horaftrolabia pro- i polish, it is triple, flat, circular, mixed Deplane in the previous fates and it is a long time ago. Just something about others It must also be said briefly. A circular surface can be trusted 3'lammctm- to enter or extricate from any body. In- Vextm Cn' trineca eftfuperficies hollow of any heart pores cylinders and cones excavated by fire turbines. Ex the trench is convex of the body of each cy clici fuperficies, such as are fphaerae, cy a lindrus, a cone, or a fig of these bodies mints TUno-ctm- The fuperficies of mixed bodies va- are also funt: for the funtplano-con- v exar, or plane-concave, or concave-con- vexas, flat-concave-convex. plane convexadimt, in which the shadow explano into the convex, and hence into the plane again for it is thrown, such as a shell with a wide con blowing on the horizon They are plano-convex, in with which the shadow from plane to convex, and From here it is thrown back into the plane, with each other if you can put a hemicycle on a plane reclining They are concave-convex 'iZcJTf0 right now concave, now convex bother conflate with the unfaithful. planoconcave convex: they are cybes, redes, concaves, convexes; and hsec again they have different affections, or cy lindri, or cone, or conoidal body which asfiombus let it be a long one. in all of which by what means do I draw the gnomonic Aftrolabia ri poffint, it will be taught at the end of the work. But that these things about plains, of those whose quality let them be done Ve Gnomone, fiylo, Jive index Jfirc- their Gnomon lips. G Nomon, five feet, the same in Gnomo nicis preseftat, that in the aftrolabiis vul At the Mediclinium, there are five rules of trust: The gnomon can indeed be used by every body of cattle brans another: and he went or brought back, and here for gnomon is called prie, for all clocks common or oblique, as in with dials and aftronomic clocks, in to all of which the oblique may be able; fiction for it refers to the axis of the world
which fub is found thence, as in the Meridians, when the old axis of the world is seized; an oblique fic of indeterminate size he has no Axis of all those clocks in which line: hourly: in the center of con they flow, it is appropriate, of whatever kind they are, vertices lia, horizontal, zquinodial In hours from Ortu, Occafu, a place for no reason can have Whence the gnomon in this case ad must be given Axismenfura is high gnomon Hence the gnomon and the quame the axis ran part way, there hours from noon, the middle node acquires po I would try From here roftra birds, balls in the fingers of the hand suspended in the air, the scepter elsewhere. whose ftatua: , or even of any other thing imaginable extremity, in place of the gnomon ad you show me the hours of incense; as long as let them be so confounded, that the last pun- while it sinks into the axis of the world, so as to become a foothold gur is clear, in which AB refers to the axis of the world, the horizontal plane AC, in which Horza me ridie, and the middle node are outlined. I mean but, the extremity of the roftri E, in the axis ca a tooth together with others of other bodies, to use hand G, hanging balls D, fagittz, F, ends incident on the axis of the world dying hours; for the whole axis of the umbia mon i zArtis magna Book III. Trotheoria I He shows the hours: therefore, everything, and the pun cta axis But in this way they refer to extremes pointers, birds, hands, etc of the things indicated a little before: therefore those which they will watch the hours on either side of the axis; that it was to be proved. Just like Itylus, then, he forgot who is the ruler of the world: thus the gnomon plane nor badly inflating is the same as the horizontal axis zontisycuj us the extreme pole of the Zenit horizon, fkNadir. There is no longer Necefariumfemper the shadow of the gnomon for hours you give it to flow: for the gnomon can take turns ipfa light fupplere Thus the ray of the sun is less slime hole intromiflus the same for it will blow in the shadowy plane, that in the light the plane of the ray casts a shadow. True of this, and the like in the fertile will be dragged Protheory Gnomonic faints, which in Proposals planisfciatbericis radium jolarium They touch the projection. Um the whole art of noftra gnomonic, as plu- the rim will be turned around the conical fetsions, and almost nothing in the end either comes back to be understood, or he wishes to be successfully completed; deiishokoloco a little We have decided to discuss it more deeply; for it is llarus wonderful ufus when at the tables of cal give artifice to the cultus, and also to the affections to be drawn on a given plane: the tower, finally, in Catoptric horography is huge it carries benefits, as it will be said in the place. I will give but the mouse in this place is a storehouse of Mathes matic cultivators further fpeculandi ma the three and I captured the tyrants so that we We will lend them to the bottom of the diflrada gination application much easier to ha- fce noftras methodical demonstrations, how obfcurilfim Apollonius captures let us trust LEMMATI C A Profit I. zrpoTttcll'. In the parabola yJicut fe has a square biordinate: to the part of the axis d the vertex, from which it is drawn j thus the square of the other whose ad axis part i from which it is made. C It conus ABC, five redus, five fcalenus recfangulus, acutangulus, velobtufan the throat is just the same, but the fedfius becomes a parable EF, which PEO reprovents in the plane, cu right vertex E, axis EF, hemiordinate HN, LI, FO. He supported it. I say that the square of OF to the axis FE make a square LI, to LE, HN, to HE, axis parts wutamM. In the cone ABC, they are drawn by some line GI, KM, Bafi AC, occidiftantes. Since igiturfedlioF. F, lateri AB, pa ralela, the parts PE, GH, KL, AF will be equal les adinyicem: As therefore in the cone EH, ad HI, itaEL, adLM, orEFadFC. I will come back GH, KL, AF, end sharks, and hence HI, LM, FC, will be increased equally, they will be the same in the whole proportion. Just like you therefore EH, to the re-diagonal GHI, so EL, to the re- a square KLM, or EF, to a rectangle AFC Since then the reduction of GHI, oque- then the square HN, and the rectangle AFC, to the square of FO, will also be as EH, to which the wire HN, so EF, to the square FO, by exchanging, as EH, to EF, so HN, to FO Therefore, in the parable of the four then femiordina to a part from the top,
which was to be demonstrated. !Torifma. He is therefore going to draw a parable on the plain no, let EF be in the plane, the line EF in the cone ocalis, and divide this into any number of pairs tes dutifque hemicirculis GNI, KIM, AOC, femiordinatifque HN, LI, FO. Si has in axim EF in the plane join the lines from the points H LF, you will have the points, through which a drawn curve will give a parabola. Profit II Whenever in the cone any feSlio hy- it happens to perioles, ellipses, or circles in this case some lines near the hyperbola, and ellipfin bafi, near the circle of the axis of the cone are drawn parallel, they will be reciangula, which from the sides from the axis, and become parallel no Tle SeBmibm Conicis. ijt and the same proportion. exHint. HK. I say that it has a rectangle DQE, in each to the rectangle HXK, MON, or the rectangle DQE, to the rectangle AQC, as in propof i. it is oftenfum, if you from the points of the parallel the butts are drawn, and then they are killed from the points of parallel lines, and conic formation, see licet in the points of in arc du they sing straight; IS, OP, QR, will be near prop. Euclid a square is equal to a rectangle the throat HIK. , but the square OP, equal to the ctanguloMON, and the square QR, equal le re&angulo AQC. In the protection of the circle, since He walks parallel to them, and to that extent the murder lest the axes should be made parallel; media for partial, or open from ipfa fection, and the rectangles of the square are wide ra; and there will be three events drawn on the plane pr0portion of the rectangle DIE, ad- the square IS, so the rectangle DOE, ad the square OP, or the rectangle DQE, ad square QR, which was to be shown. For figuration, hyperbola, and ellipsis in a cone through the intersection of many cir- It is known that the muzzles are parallel. so The roofs of the circle in the cone are shaped parallel to each other the lines must be made along an axiparallel line: which: indeed, all except those, which: per the vertex will be described, and the right triangle it does not, the productions are hyperbola. Conjecture It is clear why Apollonius Per- a hyperbola, an ellipse, and a circle in almost the same proportion Profit III. Chutndoctmqpn any parable femiorcli born led, a rectangle. then it becomes equal to a square of semi-ordinate, the side of which is equal dift anciently from the top, the elves were found to diftantiam from the top, fiemiordinata three times that is proportional; the other side will be such a re- clanguli, or the third line proportional to the side the net of the parabola; tus retiumparabolce applied ordinarily, is center of reflection of the parabola. Let the right side, or line, be found BI; let BF be equal to ED; and lead FGpa- draw ED, and draw a line from B, through D, which will make FG in G, will be FG, or equal to this BI, g9. right side If for the cure has BE, ad A, ED, or BF, adFG, or BI. Or more briefly; lines BE, ED, ask the third for portional with this induftria: In point D, ad let the line BD be the normal DH, which will make li neam BH, in FL Eft therefore EH, equal to BI; &fic complete the rectangle EB, BI, ae as a square femiordinate ED, as desired it shines wide. As now square EB, BI, equal to the square of the biordinate ED; ita he is tall and wild with the rest of the femiordi born For the rectangle EB is equal to the square of FC, therefore the square of EB, BI, is equal the square of the hemiordinate FC. that therefore in any parabola it is silent, which was to be demonstrated. Profit IV In cono reBo thus [e has latm the first side of the parable ah bafim figuti rium to the side of the reSlurh. DE, through which be the line GH, parallel to the beak drawn, it will make the triangle DIH, the sides cone ABC, proportionally. A I will tell you how from a ficutfe he has Df diftantiaa the vertex to IH, or BA, the side of the cone to AC, his mustache; so the side of the primary to the side right DZ For the femiordmata of this It is that roof whose square per Jtfopofit. Euclid's rectangle it follows; it will be a rectangle too gih because from ID I will return to the side DZ, by prce
shark tooth square foot organized? IK; therefore re- Dangula GIH IDZ, invi cem x such Because woe ro DI, in DZ, aquatur GI, in IH; will be as GI, to whom FD, to DZ, so DI, to IH. For the product of the first into the fourth muTrlt&wct is equal to the produdo from the fecund part. But now with the triangles D1H, B AC, fint proportional it will also be as BA, to AC, so FD, to DZ, which was to be demonstrated. (Poryphma It does not matter, by what reason the right side is right it can be found easily. Let it be FD, squa lis DM: by which fact let MN be parallel to IH you will lead, it will be MN qusfito Profit V. If the curve of the hyperbola in the cone is parallel to the axis the lela is drawn, it will be the primary side ine a proportional diam between the outer diameter, W side transfer smoke side reSlum. C It cone LEM, fe- God's parables parallel to the E axis; BD primary side I say, that so fe ha bet AD, ad DB, figuti DB, back to the side DZ Because fe- is parallel to the axis will be the triangle ADB, DNM, daughter, is that the proportion AD, to DB, the proportion added; therefore, as ficut fe has AD, to DZ, so square AD, to square DB Where AD, also to DZ, as the square AD to the square DB. Since already AD, ad DZ, as the square AD, to something else JSw quadramm; it is clear from the foregoing that such the wire DB, the mean proportional three times AD, &DZ That was to be proved. The great book of art III. (Protheory Part I. the smaller diameter of the ellipses will be measured make a proportional diameter between the sides of the first of the sea, of the sea; since so redangu- ius AD, in AD, to the red angle DE, in AC, as the angle AF, in ED, to redan- throat HFI Profit VI. In the parabola diftanting the center of reflection d srZsitme, The vertex is the fourth part of the side of the reffi, and so on both through the center of reflection to doubt the circle of the parable. Q It is a parabola AFIBEC, whose center re- bending F, and will be applied ordinarily by the center of the reflection of the duda DE, the sharks back to the side exfaeJe" XT OiTe do you want to redum the side? d-N le to the primary side DB, lead RS, parallel let AB, and it will be SD, return to the side of the sharks DZ, what do you think? For this reason also demon- I mean the distance of the center of reflection from the ticeB, a fourth part of the DE, velfubdu- plamfemiordinatesFB, orFD. For when the femiordinate is DE, it becomes the middle proportional to the distance from the top BF, return side, as from the preceding it was clear; &DF, fubduplaDE; rash triple B F, double DF But DE, it is fubdu- return to the side pla, and hsc quadruple BF, therefore BF, a quarter of the side come back; which was de- to be shown rPoryphma I UT Inc is clear that whenever in pa- C rabola femiordinata fimuicum diftan- that is known from above, and is given heretofore known three times such a proportional one, that the same proportion takes place expand tis from spring call to thigh dynamite fig tree my lord born to the third compare national that eridpars the third pproportionalisjam found? diftant? center reflection from the top. Sitparabola ACB, ver- texC, data femiordinate ED. When therefore jux these precedences, femiordinate media itional becomes between the distance from the top, and side Of the Qmician side redum, CD, together with DE, note fint; will give a third proportional gain; so but you must inquire into the proportional third. Let it be drawn from E, by the weight of the normal to CE, as will make HK, in K, and will be DK, a third of the proportion onal qufita, a quarter of which from C, tra- dudainH, will attach the center of reflection qusefitu Poryphmas II. Q I turn in this figure to the diameter, five transverting side DB, hyperbolas AB C, the line is complaining, which with DB, redangula confettiut, the width of which with the square la The sharks grind is done in the fourth part of the DB E, which he calls the figure of Apollonius. I mean draw such a line, or the side of the square be the distance of the center of reflection from the top. For when HG is ordinarily applied, which it passes through the center, and becomes like water from the preceding ones to the right side BE, let DB be prolonged, in M, so BE, let BM be equal. If therefore about D You will draw the semicircle, &BE, in R, for you will draw, it will be the square of BR, by pro
poles Euclid. DBM with a shark, or DBE reduction; but the square of BI is half for the length of BR, it will be redangula DBE, or BR wire, apparently of the figure. If I pore over the line DM, interval KI, semicircle RIL, leader ris, eritBI, the square equal to the rectangle LBF, and F will be the desired center. For DL is equal therefore BF, BL is equal to FD, I become a redangle will be equal to the square of BL demohftrandum Poryphmas III. Ari becomes the ellipse of whose twice the same dilation from the top in this way. When the square of the smaller diameter becomes NO the mean proportional, consequently ae as a rectangle from the greater diameter BD, the right side BE, to which is, confti- P will be safe also, which wire me day of the day three minor from the figure: cu already redan throat from greater dia metro, let the line be ri must be what kind wire NK; take me long BK of the greater diameter, BD, and that exN, transfer at the point of the greater diameter you will have pundta reflection From the weight of F A semicircle is drawn at the interval FN, and it will be the redan angle PKL, or PKM, is equal to the redan- the throat DFB, and the square KN Now PL is equal to BD, and LK is equal Facebook So it will be FB, the line that is used. If already from PL, &KL, or LI, let it be a rectangle, on the side the square of IK, that is, PKM, is equal to the square to NK, its side KL, equal to CD, or FB, the expansion of the center of reflection from the top; that it was to be demonstrated. Profitio Vil. In the cone ifopleurus the side of the primary paraboU watery Uteri r effio Let the cone be u ABC, pa-M' I'm tired of Rachel DE, and it will be figuti BA, ad AC, itaFD la the first river to the DG side return indeed BA, equal is AC, &BF, water FD, neceflarid quo that FD, the primary side, will be equal to the side redo DG If, therefore, the side of the primary order applied to the nose of the parable, fecabitidpun- duniinaxe, which will be the center of reflection. If the cone has been redanguized light, I mean the center of reflection to fall in me- SecuHiti4 a long time within the top of the faith, and you take the common intersecting axes, cones, and parabolas while Let ABC be the conic, the parabola DE while faith Because therefore figutiB A, to AQitaKD, to the side of the return, angu game ABC, angle BLK, water flow the case becomes, and will be proportional to the outcome also ficutKD, to the side r edum; itaLB, ad Y Third Fourth CttjfuS.
Artis Book BK But LB, LK, they are Aquatics: therefore& side of the matter while: are nimlk in the middle KD there will also be B, K, sharks DE, dimi the length of the side AB. Since then BL, medium becomes DK, also BK, it will be half of the right side: But DF is half of BK, which elt side come back it will therefore be the center of reflection. The line HG is drawn parallel to E lela KD, &fuperea defcribaturfemicircu- game fl therefore from I, the circumference of a circle into a pound F, you will draw a normal red, it will be hsc fe- organized, which center of reflection trans- flbit, and there will be a proportional mean between HF, FG, fub double H G. It is therefore clear, cen trum of reflection elfe inF, in the middle of linesED. which was to be demonstrated. Let ABC be the third reduced cone, whose axis BH, AC becomes a shark's beak, and I am fed up with hyperboles DFE, parallel to the axis of the cone BH, I say on the side while on the side the primary fubduple, or exte of greater diameter, ve tranfverfl widely rice to contain: flcut for a square DE, to the square FG, itaDF, adFI, la- return fed from adFG, is as a whole to the whole, DF to FI, as a mean to the middle It will be then I will return the side FI, to GF, the primary fubduple; which was to be demonized If I continue in the reduction cone, the hyper- bols happens parallel to the axis, it will be the side of the return more the shark outside ri diam e tro, mul la third party mario With three angle IBG, BFG, pretend sharks will be side by side aqualia: and finished, as the square FG to the square GI, thus FG, the transversal side For the theory of 'Part to something else, quickly return to the side: fed FG, eft sharks IG: therefore which was to be demonstrated. The problem. When the priest extirpated the diameter of the ara Ji- and the transversal side of Hyperbolez, from which cunque also cono feB. cz, side reBum co it is gnitum, to find out the cone of reBum from with which this feBio is parallel to the axis
to touch pojflt C It side transversus AD, side redum Dz, from this reduced cone, from which didafedio axiparallela contagt: quread AD, transversal side, &DZ, redus side the middle ratio nalem: de then let it be done DR lisDZ, will that in microcirculation ABR, li no DB, la the first rium coni come back ftm. Yes therefore I doubted him neam B A, in E bi you will make exE, EBL, EDM, , they will be led cone Indeed so AD, to DZ, use square AD to the square DB throat AID, ad square IK, i [o to use redangulum AN D, to square. the wire NO, which was sought. Profit Often a line of parables from whatever com feBez are fimiles, aperiuntfe juxtv then the center of reflection from the top of the paraholce. pCT is Otum, a femper femiordinate ex at the center of reflection twice as long the difference of the center from the top. Where does it come from? the distance from the center to the square jusfemiordinates; so one thing is different from another femiordinata from ptmdo such a diftantes a I doubt the center. For if the parable diverges: in a certain cone they will be formed inside, they will expand let ifts follow the distance from the center from the top. For the femiordinate MA is double long
vli-c. Of Settiombui (onicls, longer diftant from the top of MG will be PM, double MI; MO, double MK; MN, finally and it will be twice as much as GV, to square then Quta GM, to square MA; And it will be IV, to KV; so the square VR, ad square vs. Therefore they are all alike: and as in the registration of the circle, so great is its circumference that I become dull, how much greater was the diameter; So in pa rabola juxta diftantiamcentre rellectionisa the top circle, now larger, now smaller, now dull, now sharpened, Poriftna From this it is clear that mo so it's very easy give a parable such a proportion to expand; For if LM. diffantia center fe had, as z, ha drink fefeXMN or dinata, as &fiKM it was, that it will be of 3rd order O applied to the nose MY, use. make of chalk, as you see in the attached table. For if the number of diftanting centers on the previous one If you take the applied number, it will not appear merely ordinarily applied to feu called diftan- tia correfpondcns Propofirius If the two cones of the cone are at the point "vertical "They are opposed in turn, and both by plane, they will not be thrown from the top, they will be fe- tliones in each cone are similar, hyper I am reao with one and the same side. Let there be two cones ABC, QBT, at vertex B, conjundti, who are made meet any level mo RL I'm telling you, DL aquelum fedtioni NR. Therefore let NR, &DI, they will be aquatic; return Gula QRT, CLA. Also DRN, NLD, according to retreats, daughters, media proportional RW, L V water to each other, and it is a rectangle NLD, to the square LV, figuriND, to the side return, or use the rectangle DRN, to which wire RW, so to the right side NZ Because already NR, DL so, means for portional, or femiordinate RW, the waters are alternately, and transversal smoke common to all, and or whether they have a side income nem NR, DL, elfeaquales, which was de- muW to be shown Profit X. If in any parabola from the center line to the the river is drawn, (fi from such a punSlo another line axis parallel to some semiordinate nor if drawn incorrectly, both will be as long as the line that runs from the center to the periphery in this fe- it is organized. O It parabola ADEF, center of reflection femiordinate DG, CH, BI, AK, linea ve what? from the center tur, HD, HC, HB, HA, are perpendicular to temfintDQCPjBO DicoHD, such as efleHC: HD, DN, aquatic HB, HD Again HD, DN, watery HB. I would go HD DQ water HA. HC CP, aquatic HA. As also HB, they are aquatic. They are therefore HD, DQ; HC, CP; HB, BO, between fe, adHA, such as For since HD, H is aquatic E, together with G; HC, aqua HE, twice ftimpa It will also be HD, GH, this is HE, double-sided water HC Similarly, HB, water is HE, IE, ffmul fumptis. So also Hmpeur. C, HI, or CM, water HB. And since HD, water, HE, EG, fumilla, will be &HD, IG, orND, aqua HB; so DH
DQJimul aquantur HA What was de- to be shown coffee Almost entirely depends on this propofition the ratio of parabolic mirrors, ra god Disbelief center Ordinarily applied.
io i Etfic ad infinitum. to use 'njurtf. fu QArfttt. 'itxihfyi. ogjT&rif. iy5 solar gods into one pundtum H, refle&en of this, as will be said in the Catoptrical Magic. It is clear also, by what reason, with the help of the son and the gnomon, the parable can be described with almost no business, which practice see below Porifma Ttehyperbolis Q however, from opposite hyperbolas centers of reflection on the point which if the peripheral lines are drawn, it will be difFe- rentiaiinearum sqiialislateri tranfverfo, li or the outer diameter. Let the hyperboles be opposite fits DHE, MCV, cen both sides AB. Yes already from A, in pun so E, or H, lines BH, AH, AE, BE, lead there DicoreliduaAE. ex BE, or AH, from BH, ae such as eff DC, side I will transfer They are led from A, B, centrispervertices bow DN G, VCM, ex B, through D, arcDOF, from punit HE, normal, five-femiordina- taedaximDA; will be as KD, to ID, soEG, adHN, as is evident from the foregoing. Further be the two lines AD, DB, clays NH, &HO, or EG, &EF, are added; triangles are formed from the addition of these parts AHB, AEB, will be HO, EF, parts of the sides of the triangles BH, &BE, the triangles HN, GE, as is clear from the preceding. Since therefore AD, sharks and BC, &BD, sharks BO, or BF, will also be AG, the shark BM. But EG, sharks eftEF. It will therefore be BM, &FE, sharks AG, fimuleumGE, &confequen- terMF, &CO, different? of course between AE &BE, AH, &BH, I will transfer the sharks to the side CD, which was to be demonstrated. He has this The innumerable porifmas are lost in desperation. nor the arcs of the Zodiac, as may be seen. II. again in the ellipse from both centers two lines into one circle Great Art Book III. Trotbeoria Part I pts sharks larger diameter ellipse. three LM, smaller DH, centers AB. Siexbifce m some peripheral pundtum for example H, let the lines AH, &BH be drawn, LM For if from the centers A, B, at an interval of AM, the quadrant AMK is drawn, and from B, the interval BL, another quadrant of the former shark BLX du fall, then AM, into several shark parts it is divided, and from here it is divided into two are sung I do this with FK, GX, at the same time parts, as soon as they are divided, what will happen from the terminus of the biordinates A, B, an arc be drawn to the lines FK, GX: therefore AS will be, sharks AT: AR, sharks AC: AH, sharks AI: AK, sharks AM, that of the other li nea GX, it must be said ItaBM, he squats BH, PN, IK sharks, NX, GI sharks. Whence PX, or OK, the sharks floating AB, there is also OI, sharks YH: PN, sharks ZH: so OI, PN, or the sharks of YH, ZH, fimul AB, sharks, but already fi AY, becomes sharks AL, BZ, sharks PM, AH and HB will also be LM sharks. That was to be demonstrated. Theorem i. When the sun sets on the equator, the sun goes down His day revolves around the center of the world a circle, that is to say, it smokes the Equator. but the cast shadow will be a net line.
let them be led, they will be such ftmuifu- Thus the axis of the world BC, the ruler HI: Let the Sun, in some of its punfts. di- tore confti- with the Sun's ray, the movement of the day around the center of the safe shadow to bring down the circle. Since from Prof. lib. i. Theodoph. squa-ttamdeferi- tor the axis of BC, the center of the Sun, bit the center of the squatter, and the limit of the radius, jux ta fuppofitionem in the same place they will not depart from the plane of the squatter you, as much as the movement of the day in the same let the circumference remain, the circle is drawn necef De Sebiombus (Jonicis. it is clear that And that circle in pla-i the line will be thin. For every circle ma ximi into the plane projection line rec I was so exhausted. i. he proposes He teaches abundantly Theodosius: Ergo Sole, What was de- to be shown Theorem II. The sun will fall outside the Equator along the coast The sun's ray, with the movement of the day, opposed the two cones, the first of which is bright, the second um bro right around the center of the world like ad common to both coniVerticers, (Bajis
but on both sides of the cone there will be a circle. Let the Sun be parallel to ED, from Aquarius however declining, axisBC, water tor HI, the center of the world A. I say the Sun in ED, two cones of A
Theorem IIT. If any gnomonic plane baft parallel, will cross in this plane co- I call it the circle of the apex of the gnomon. monicum, DE, FG, conioppofiti, pla no parallels; axis of the world BC I say MN Draw a circle with its center on the axis of the world For when the planes FG, KL are parallel in the greatest circle HI, ipfi between fe juxta book Euclid. they will be parallel. Why? with the cone AFG mobafiFG, coniparallelo, eritfectionOM, propof lib. Apoljon. Circle having its center on axisBC. If the plane igi- each, cc. What was demonllran- while bright AFG, shadow facing the fibi around the center of the world A, as if around record both top and bottom rum For the sun in E, for example to, its radius is moved to the center of the product ctus femper about parallel fuperficia to the bottom of the aqueduct, the center of which it is the center of the world; ca id, necefiario lucis radii EAF, DAG, co as shown in the figure, defcri- bent When the whole extended line becomes straight, and with eagle speed around the center, near the pro- nundatum be promoted, formabuntra- diiSolisEAF, DAG, in the opposite parallel GF, another conic fuperficia fciatheri- cam, five shadows FG. So the sun is outside itself that the mouth was closed, What was de- to be shown of the chapel erBfATTtgep&m I T Inc collect first, whenever becoming the mustaches of cones, five parallel log-shades cir rum oppofkorum said bafes conftituen-"defcri- of the greatest and most parallel fem- At' through the apparent hidden, inhujufmo- di conotomo plane the shadow of the gnomon in throw circles As at first occurs in the horizontal plane of the fuppoJarh Second, in the vertical plane, the straight line. the third plane to the equinox tyal sequidiftante, in which a bow of wood there are circles of rum: as in the fertile will be found Theorem IV Whenever the plane was conotomized the right side of the wing is parallel to the conifciatberic he will draw on the plane of the conotome the parable of the gnomon Q It A, the center of the world, and the vertex of the cdni AFG: the axis of the world BC, the plane con- tome HI. I mean the sun outside the sky in the said plane HI, the shadow will fall the parable of the gnomon. Since the is the largest group, tranfitperBC poles, all finished a circle of parallel cones in EF, tan gens, to use plane conotome, juxta pro he eats lib. Theodoph. in the poles fccabit Artis Book III. Lortheork Tars
will make With, moreover, a fciatheric cone AFG, through the plane HI, will be made in K, INM, common slaughter of the mustache of the cone, plane conotomi, also flat FE, HI, adplanum of the greatest circle the right fint, will be quo that their common derivation, to the same redla in punito N, to the muzzle of the cone perpendicular dicular; consequently KN, axisfection nis parallel to the side FA. Then there will be a party in plane conotomo HI, defcriptafiguraIKM, parable. What was to be demonstrated. Conjedarium First of all, sometimes nut Falis coni fciatheric only al in the aqueduct it declines to the Auftrum, as far as it is in front of the largest circle, to which I try to plane the tome is equidistant, the shadow on the same plane describe a parable, five which are the same whenever the horizontal plane coincides A table of the declination of the parallels of the Sun, in which the data of Solfub were collected He described the elevation of the parabola, indicating cut with one side of the cone, the other height the follower on the opposite side you, because then the shadow will fall on the same plane bet a parable Secondly, whenever the parallel So The greatest issue of the delinquents is touched by on the horizon will be projected parallel to the plane a parable; and such a projection will happen fub elevation of pole When for tro the peak of Cancer is made entirely at this latitude the black horizon, and the tropic Capricor-SJl
nor all below, touch the horizon on both sides of the mountain at points at noon and midnight; will it be? adlatusconi femper delitefcentis circle of the horizon, as quidiftant; therefore, what is produced from it, de- I will prepare to go hunting. True, as the Reader riofus should understand the breadth of the region Are the parallels of the Sun in the same plane? let them throw out the squeegees, I will place a table here, in which the whole business is more clearly revealed bit The first column represents the decline nesSignorum; the fertile latitudes of the region whether So the sun, for example, is from the equator declining grad. min. write down in the conotome plane horizontalifub width. grad. min. shadow gnomon rasp So Soleid degree &cq. min. of tilting down the width of the fub grad. min. I connote the same on the plane, and you will judge of the rest. For all these parallels are touched by a great circle, vi I like the horizontal plane the mum arched at the point which is the axis of the cone at the point where the angle intercepts the elevation the fourth horizon, to use in the process it has been demonstrated with the teeth. Declin. parall. Q Hides. local Decline parallel Oh Latitus local
(jmjeBarlwn II. Hence it is clear that who however; fixed in the plane of conot mo, then defcnptu- ram parable when the circle is large mouse, five horizons such a plane equivalent diptat, touch pa rallelum the breadth of the country it was as much as Theorem V Whenever the circle is the largest, each plane of the cone is watered, and the cones of the cones are opposite having done so, the shadow of the gnomon will be written on the plane of the conotome of the kyjqer holes, opposite and equal. Let them be fi) from the Theory of Circles by Cat. i7g Let the cones AFG and BEA be two opposite cones, whose sides BE, FG. are parallel to the Sun; fecetaute- the greatest circle, feil. horizon such HI, the mustaches of both cones DEA, AFG. I say that the top of the gnomon will go flat let us denote KL, denote the hyperbolas MNO, PQR, oppoficas, &asquales: for bafes co they are not made by our flat conotome the top next to Prof. of this, the lesson, which you call there is hyperbole, and the same of the two faiths will be the diameter KL The truth of this further see the demonstration of propof. po- rifmate of hyperboles propof. tra rich Confession So he rides from here first, because when- and the largest circle, to which the plane equidifts the conotom, that parallel, whose deviation from the follower is smaller at the completion of the height of the pole, raise five by the action of the azquator, he broke that circle When he was exalted, he defied hyperbole whereas the completion of the elevation of the pole femper becomes greater parallels within min. which the greatest circle makes all the lines will be in the same plane I wrote hyperbole. Hence it is clear that all the bows of the pawns in fphasra oblique in horizontal clocks vertical, meridian, polar fcriptos, elTe hyperbolas. .Theorem VI If I were a plane, I would be watertight with the greatest circle, each parallel becomes ha the son of the horns, shall not touch them, nor become cet, it will project the center of the shadow from the ellipse. . Let AB be the equator; CD, FG, parallel to it, their cone CDE, EFG. check the plane tome EH, producing cone EGF, perLR. And when this straight LR, leather EFG, no he will do by bafin, fed fufra the same in points of the sides FE, will be the intersection of RL, the ellipse: for the plane is conotomous EH, as I said it is, bafin coni FEG, does not touch, nor fe them cat, nor is it parallel; therefore he does elliptical cone Conjecture It is observed that whenever the ba- the declination of the cone of any fciatheric dej-cribat aftral from Aquator is the greater complement- eihpfin. to the elevation of the pole of the maxi circle mum, to whom he squidifts a plain conotome: then on that plane it will be covered by the shadow of the gnome elliptic mountains So the tropical sun Can cri fubeunte fub elevation pole, degrees min. on the conotome plane ellipses there Yes, the sun is degrees. min. declining, like a fub with the elevation of the pole grad. min. on the conotomo plane ellipses will be written down. Complete in these
chin elevation pole red circle what is the greatest ftat, it will be less with the declination of the parallels. All these things are clear from the figure, and easier rather than that they should be translated more quickly. I will conclude from the following propositions, When traveling on a conotomous plane MLasquidiftat the muzzle of the cones, the projection there will be a circle of shadows, as it happens in the region of fuppo-Jcn at lari II. Whenever any circle QUtlndo the greatest touches that parallel, whose d e-rMm. the inclination of the asquis is the complete height that great circle of the poles or that it is the same, whose decimation com the height is equal to the elevation of the pole; then I cast a shadow on the plane of my brain it is a parable. III. Whenever the circle that- When hy- I would like to make that parallel, the right declination is smaller with the complement al- the height of the pole of the great circle mum, or the complement of its declension then the height of that pole is greater the greatest circle, in the plane of the necephalarium will be thrown into hyperbole. IV. In any case, finally, the circle ma Ximo does not make that parallel, nor he touches it and does not sneeze at it; then I fell to him it is pfis, but this happens when the declension pa the ralleli is greater than the complement of the height poli fupa the greatest circle, or when the complement of the declination of the parallel mi nor is the elevation of the pole the greatest cir-. tail V. Sub fphasra oblique up to Gr. minutes. width viz the Ardtic circle on all horizons horizontal, vertical, as the most hyperbole they are thrown away; fub fphasra oblique, five parallels, the fiery Zone, prepare now bola, now ellipses; fub ipfo pole vero in horizontal circles, projected, used while it is In aArtis magm Liher III. Protheorus Tarsus I In planes inclined to the horizon now hyperbole now parabola now el- lips, and circles in declining from the hour zonte hyperbole is thrown. But by this art the parables, which have already been explained, hyperbola, ellipse, conotomode fcnbi queant, in frequent tractate program will be taught in the oil industry. Theorem VII. The sun in any great circle safely, the umhra of the gnomon is projected into the line, re then I will be the common interjection of the circle the largest, the horographic plane. Q It is the largest circle ABCD, fecanspla- whether the horographic EG, FH while he fixed the line EG, in the center of which he went gnomon KI, whose vertex I is the same as cen tro world I say: The sun weighs pounds, circles the greatest contusion, the shadow in the line of the matter I will give EG, he will go ahead. Because the ray of the Sun, the center of the world, this is the bee cem gnomon I, striking in a continuous pro led, he will form a circle near Theor ma I. unopposed part of the greatest circle: vi Delectet in M. When therefore reda EG in the square but if the same circle exifts, it will make a ray LIM, redam EG, in the pound N, and so on the shadow is cast on the red EG, common the intersection of the great circle ABCD and the plane horographic EGFH: Sole igitur, that it was to be demonstrated. coffee shop From this it is clear that the common circles where a bunch of pews with flat clocks smoke fuas demonft reasons from the circle the greatest, to whom ajquidiftant So common It is called the equator and the plane of the clock tequinodialis: because be an asquinodial plane would extend to infinity, that plane by passing the rographic on it he would impress li neam, which is equinoctial. Yes, the line the meridian is a certain line in the ipfo meri entrusted to the plane of the gods. For if the south some plane would be extended to infinity, from the south line on the plane chronologically, however it may be. Yes common weed of the circle of the fextx hour, pla nor is it horographical. Pari ra tion of the common vertical primary with fciatheric plane, efl: vertical line, which in the horizontal is the same as in ver tical horizontal, &fic of the rest. Note however, whenever the circle is the largest it is equidistant to some plane, then the shadow ob an infinite and indeterminate projection to disappear From here the sun is shining on the horizon, the gnomon on the same plane
a quidiftant will have an infinite burden, not that will determine anything. Likewise So le in the vertical primary conftitituto, the shadow in in the same vertical plane with a protuberance will disappear The same property of strength there are all the greatest circles to the plane of ali that of parallels: as the meridian to the plane fuum, requinodial adfibi xquidiftans, fic about the rest Theorem VIII. All of them were of the greatest circle, of whom the first it is the south, meeting at the poles of the world, and parallel femper apparent ma the top in the Z4. playing equal parts, in let them say the hours from noon. n Em the whole unique phyllogifmo demon- conclude with an argument. Those spaces who The sun moves parallel to the sun during the day beginning from the south, and the middle node zq. the hours are equal from noon and me day having a beginning (for it is an hour part of the natural day. But of the greatest circle, of which the first meridian, through the poles di incedentes, parallels femper appar the largest income in Z4. equal parts fe the songs indicate the manner of the fpatiazq. water lia: for they make all parallels in parts like Therefore, the greatest circles in the sphere the first of which becomes the meridian, indi cant water hours from noon, and the middle no having a beginning That was a demon to break The same can be said about the fubdivision not of circles at half and quarter of an hour rum But we have taken a parallel approach the greatest of appearances for this division rare, not that others are foolish parallels to this one because of the division into families the parts, all fit to be effle poflunt; fed for hours from Ortu and Occafu, as will be explained shortly there Theo- SDeTheorh of the Qdefian Circles.
Theorem The greatest circle, of which the hour is the first zon, which touch the parallel femper appear the greatest of these in z. punllisjn with which the same from the circles of the hours from noon, and the middle do not is divided, they indicate the hour-ss from Ortu, and Oc I'm drunk I expediency in this fyllogifmo. Paria the times which the sun moves the day runs through, at the beginning I do from the horizon, that is, they are either from Ortu or from Occafu hours sharks from Ortu, or Occafuini of the swelling But the greatest circles, of which the first rizon, touching the parallel femper appa the greatest rent in pundis, in which the bus is divided, the same by the circles of the hours i me ridie, the middle node, shows the ejufmodipa ria times Therefore the greatest circles, of which the first there is a horizon, indicates the hours from Ortu, Occafu the beginning of Tumentes. That was it to demonstrate But the parallel appa they touch the greatest of rents, the caufa For when it was twenty hours from the horizon let them begin and divide the hooves parallel, whom they should do (but let them all do in between gods) in equal parts; This is not necessary division, they will travel across the poles strap near propof. lib. Theo- doc. or they touch one of them. Since then let them not cross their poles, as in the hour zonte is clear, fed by the circle of hours from noon, and the middle node is only led through them; all must touch one another who will be parallel to whom the horizon touches the greatest of appearances. What ro the remaining intermediate parallels in par they will make you equal, from propof. lib. Theodoph. it is clear: when all are divided into parts the soldiers appear parallel to each other the more important things will be done. Let them be under the pole hours from Ortu, Occafu, with the horizon it shall be done with the aquifer, and shall not be suffered to be divided It is true that they may be better understood in this way, and Theories are not so clear to everyone. should be taken, those which are about hu compare the nature of two kinds of circles. ch. We differ from this. When you perish, fe- we will demonstrate this method. flronomica in one eodemquepunllo as high ra of those, from Ortu, or Occafu; Oh, that line rre aflronomicce in the remaining line al Ortu, Occafu was punished in one and the same way. Irculus ef s h becomes parallel to femper ap the largest circle of parents at any of the aftronomic hours, the words gra tia at o'clock he will do in s, pundi extremis the diameter of the circle. Then the two are smoked punda, xv, equally removed from the hour e s, vide xij, at o'clock and at noon, and me
dia node I say these time circles from Or you and Occafu in one and the same weight fe to kill in line e s, o'clock. protracted. For when the hourly circles XS, &ijL, paral touching the lelum, and you are, aftronomic hours circle, let them have one and the same nemcommunem, according to Prof. ip. lib. i Gnome Keys; it becomes the plane of the clock nonaequidiftet common to this faith, fed He will do it in some place, in the same place so let the three hourly lines come together, that is to say common beliefs of the plane of the clock, culorum e s, XS, Ly. Why in whatever I pound one of them, the other of the rest cares, in the same way as the rest of the earun he will make it, at the hour XS, he will make it an hour you are, in e, in the same weight, the same, too it will be done at the hour of Ly. But what about the hours o. And it is long, of all things, and of clay it happens in a few hours. I killed the birds. To the faithful The cost of any two lines is ah Ortu, or Occafu, whose circle is equal thrice dient a circle horre cujufpiam together in the most apparent parallels um, between fecabuntfe mutual so roughly barn ab Ortu, or Qccajk afumptre in Une a horia The 'C' X figure is based on the Higappofitas theory that combinatory abacus, certainly ad wonderful, which we connected with that artifice dilpofuimufque, as almost in the whole horolo- nothing can be found by this art, which is not it is based on this. You will find it all in this when theoretical, then problematic the efficiency of the hours from Ortus, Occafu. Book II of Artis magmas. Vyotheorie I The abacus combines the ori with the horograph. G L I O Ii ib
ip X TOf! x IP X i lof
It n t X f X t X i IV X rd i
What hour from Ortu, Occafu, who li ufnam a meridie, half nodte fint pa rallela, in which or in the punft, or in which circle the same, the combinations are infinite It offers variety. And so much effc ufus hu the right of the table its registration, as either in he was able to run out a very large tome. We only hours from Ortu, Sc Occafu in with any plan of decribendarum We will explain here soon. And why not? particular tables in the gnomonic space extracted and polished, through various paradigms let's find out; that I have no doubt that the court I was a reader of an infinite field of books fuppelledtilis to accumulate, from this ipfo, when he sets forth a great fortune, he becomes about to have it. The Theory of Circles (jxkfiinm. Abacus comlnnatonus Horographus.
UfusiAbaci ComhinatorU, O Unc Abacus hid a certain arti- that is to say, we spread it so that we did not parallelif- only a few hours from Ortu and Occafu at aftronomic hours, fed what in the same in the hours it is found that the inteiftions are immense rietas, one of which fynopfi b po eyes spin And about the way and the method indeed, by which we crushed him, there is no let us trust; resipfa fagaciLeftori it will be clear, why to his ufo in the Gnomonica to be declared, those who are ignorant of the whole inftititu nis ell, let us turn the pen. The first i Art Magnes Book the third ufm Abaciindefcribendis clockwise from Rise and Fall One of the most fruitful of these tables
with the help of all kinds of horology we become to be broken; Abacufquefufiorcomprehensive, it is done as if the Tyrones wanted: here we will teach, in what manner particular tables from it to the wind of the clocks rum, they want to be extracted. I forbade If any one, therefore, a particular Table for Panicula- clocks liorizontal select defi let him come to the wooden column of letters AC two-fronted, that is twice as many hours to spin an infinitive; the first denotes hours from me ridie, middle note, from to progre giving; the other indicates the hours from occafu ab i to running. If, therefore, these hours and halves, and four quarters III. Protheum Part II refponding the transfer you will have parallel hours on both sides mum: qutsfcilicet horte aftronomica, qui bus hours from Ortu and Occafu equidiftent. Because still to break the clock the said parallelism does not make any difference, I must you will have to spend hours too micas, in quibusfefe difbe horte in equine cial clocks will kill. Give these hours a bit for you column EF, compared to the hours from Ortu, Occafu in column BD con you try Itax3in columnBRegioneref- weighs the fifth aftronomic hour: quar ta: &fic about the rest. For through these Ctiali will be led by Ortus and Occafu. If, therefore, the numbers of the hour are next to the two fronts column, subjoin the column numbers EF, you will have a table for horizontals, with vertical lines, as it is done. rare; in the vertical, however, the division of the hours in the horizontal line, five line of the hour Si for the Italian hours in the first row of the table You will be content, for hours of fertile order at the points where the horizontal line let it go, and through the aftronomic hours of the third order in the equinoctial line you have led; you will have it vertical log found. If you redraw a column in the table again GH bifrontal labeled at o'clock, functional while correcting the transfer numbers, as here, you will have another table instead horizontal clock Horizontally. Hours from Occai u
aftro. in lineah
aftron. in? quinot
The first column shows the hours from Oc I was drunk; the other shows, to which those are the same parallel fint; the third one, by which I aftronomic races in the equinoctial clock to be brought out of the night from Occafu, as quidiftantes Horisaftronomics in fertile column of content. of all of which see gmatias in the fertile Canon For Verticals.
T AEc preceding table nonhorizontal only the bread, fed boiled vertically He can help you, even in a dilapidated manner. On the horizon for such the parallelism ho-1 is attended to Another file for Hours from the west
'P Rima column shows the Italian hours: fertile, aftronomic hours, during which that is, in the first line of the hour from Occafu: the column of hours must be drawn. The third co lumna, during which the same aftronomic hours in the equinoctial fint So if If the pious person wishes to use this document, he will make it in another way, the clock is horizontal from Ortu, or Occafu. And from the abacus make infinite close to the similar files of the fibi to the said clock gia to be broken, he will be able to pick out. Another vertical dial too you will be able to procure a file for yourself: see and in column AC you get the hour phtronomic, and then the transfer process I give, aftronomic hours, according to the hours from Oru, or Occafu in the front, or kicked? they will correct, you will decrypt For common area efti2. Sc efti3. fic about the rest. But these things are trickier in the passage about clocks by Ortu, Occafu they will be carried away. Canon 7ra clocks meridianis-. and first indeed for the West By the noonday clock, it will boil for you another bula from the abacus noftro combinatorial For extracts from this article, see column HG marked by the title hor? If for two hours the front of this column is transfverfim fponden- On the Theory of Codeftian Circles. They drew out the unprepared board laugh, you will have a very easy business for me make a daily schedule. Because, however Are not all of these forbidden? hor? boil, fo-
los horarios numbers between columnx fpa- of the GV, extract the contents into your mouth you will be able to do it. Italian hours
AftrOn. in ae quino Ctiaii
If, therefore, the Italian hours for the clay hours two in line hor? iz. in? quinotialire- dtasduxeris; will they give? the south for you In the West, what has happened Canon For the Eastern Meridian. Abula feparata for the meridian rientali, tibifupeditat columnAC, refpon the number of transfer hours pick your teeth; from the East on the of the Sun the hour which here Romx quafi from Occafu it is in the fruitful column is contained inci by walking: for by falling from this; and so on proceeding to the noon hour; be it ras fec fertile columnx, hours return the altronomics and the Italians to the table if you wear it, you will have the so-called midday do you do it? And the garden aftronomically in the third strike the content of the file? so they will find there Look for the Italian hour, for example the first in the first row of the file: then videquaeide incolumnaEF, Abacicor- let it rest, and you will find and this will be at what time Italian in Italian tranfibit, and the fic will be completed tranfibit the knowledge of the abacus must be proceeded with: and I would have it complete the file as it is done. j Horte Italiana;
Aftron. in tequinocft.
If therefore the Italian hours of the first order, by bi any nose in fertile, and the third strike ta- you will spend hours contented, you will have oriental rologiumquxfito Innumerable At this point I would like to propose other files, at a given hour This is true because of the brevity of the time LeCtor otiofiorio they must be left. Canon For the clock Tolera. TTdEc table is the same as Ca- none at first for horizontal clock we have attached If indeed hours per line hours from the Occafu polar plane they are hurt If, however, by the line of the hour iz. hours they must transfer in the said plane, you use the table The third canon for the clocks of the south; for this matter is hot on both sides. Canon Tro Clock A bowl.
HP Abula in the first canon for horizontal prepared with books, with a clock also in the pla no equinoctial boil. Why am I running away from him? We don't want to miss out on thing. It should be noted here, write these universal tables, and please all no matter how irregular they are, as long as the primary actions of the circle strap, horte horizontal five, o'clock. from the rising, and falling; hours and a. m day, and you have to account for the middle node. For example in a circle every known hour from the rising, and you will find in it the setting of the Abaco with the parallelism of the hours; then com the task of the same slaughter. Who Abacus will teach you everything better than I would like to explain it in many words. Qinon 'Tro Horologiis hylomcis ia with nnt mverla ADyiomca noroiogi; Italians also need their own tables they are not seen For if the numbers of hours Italians, five from Occafu, add the numbers hours from Ortu, you will have the map completed ctam for the Babylonian clocks; as in ta It appears that wars are frequent. Yes. . lQi4li5li617ii9j2c{2ij2223)x4)x zj j f 6j frsjiijiz Siigi- Artis magna Book IIL Protheory Part If, therefore, anywhere in the tables of the Italian hour if they meet, from this table they will be corrected You could have had Babylonian teeth twice the table, in which hor? Babylonia per lin gluttony two hours aftronomic in the last, The penultimate hit should transfer the contents. But more about these in the passage about the rule of fcia- therica And these things in brief, about Ufupropolis Aba let the combinator be told. Theorem X The greatest circle, the first of which was Jit me Ridianus, five circle hours parallel The largest of the visible jumpers together with the rest who divides parallels into twelfth unequal parts thrice in the fphaera oblique fe eant go; They indicate the hours beginning unequally from Ortu and Occafu. CUm fub fphaera oblique linguli paralle li equidistant from the Equator on both sides let the bows be equal to the days and not to the turns, but unequal by day or by night, so that how many equinoctial hours he spent
diurnus, so much from HorisaequinoCtialis al the newspaper should be burned three times; equal bet of parallels in twelve parts Let the les be divided, and the proportion will be the same that of the part to the part, that of the whole to the whole: it becomes as arc so much becomes the greater hour fortnightly, how many hours 'jo the same lit me Nor. They will therefore be exalted unequally read: that which should not be done, let it be done with equals rice would be equal. What Sc. of other tongues parallels must be said; whence I form such an ar gument The spaces of time in those twelve ar whose noftu-diurni parts refpon- teeth, with which the Sun moves by day and night no, those bows are unequally compared to others rando traverses, there are unequal hours from Or you and Occafu leading the beginning But the greatest circles, by twelve the male of all day-night bows often give Therefore, the greatest circles in the sphere, Scc. That it was to be demonstrated. forum He rides first, fub fphaera reCtahujuf- common hours with afironomic hours to fall since all there are parallel from on the horizon they will make a bifurcation, a clay bow day-night parallels in i x equal The parties to the division shall work equal hours from the south the middle of the knot from which from Ortu And by beginning Occafu they refpondent the ancients. There is therefore no difference of hours here, nifi only the beginning of the counting Theorem XI. At any time some fciatberic plane the axis mmndifecat, they will make (f? in the same pun- ch as a pole fefe all the lines of the hours a midday, oh middle please fUm for all the line? hours -day, and half a day, let them pass through the mun di poles, as it is in the theorem oftenfum, will be the axis of the world of their common planes that In which, therefore, the axis meets the plane, or do they run SC line? hour? aftronomic? it was to be demonstrated. From this it is clear that the hourly lines from the south, 8c middle note in all clocks, which let them make a flat axis in the puinft commun to unite as the center of the creation, they modify all the verticals, whatever the ra declination (except meridian) ho horizontal, equinoctial; tilting (ex pto polar) tilted (except for appropriate with the vertical meridian. Theorem XII. If the plane of the clock is parallel to the axis, eruntprojdlre linear hours from noon, and by means of the idea of cooling each other. For all the hourly circles from me They were carried in the middle of the day, ex prof. precedents across the poles of the world, two of their girths were feinted the common world axis of their planes dtio Why be the plane of the clock ipfos cir making the clocks equal to a certain circle with his ass through the poles of the world, and thus through the axis They will be in the circle of the duCto or ipfi axi rum, plani horologii ipfos fe cantis com This is a timeline of my duties ridie, half nodte all parallel. Therefore be the plane of the clock, which was a demon to break corollary It follows from this theorem that every hour rias from the south, and the middle lines of the night, in to every plane which is equidistant to the axis of the world, as in the meridian, the polar, in the horizontal fub fphaera refla, verticali fuppolari, eile pa rallelas For the same reason the vertical cir the butts are parallel in the vertical plane, &tn horizontal lines meet at the center of the horizon, because that is parallel to the vertical, this is true makes the axis of the horizon. APPA 1S prepared PART TWO PROGYMNASMATICS In which all those things, which to the Great noftram as many times they are only defemre fojjunt, mtejligantur, arranged for practice. g Um great in this art Gnomo- nicanoftra of feqtient tables the future becomes a cloud, and not from all prseft fmt; those with which it can be done with ease and ease, the manner of their cal We will teach you how to cook here, by no means this art seems to lack perfection. So let it be PRE-GYMNASTICS I From the aftronomic calculus to the gnomonic dire$x Pradufio the meridian line, to be found at the height of the pole below any horizon. TntmqUe this problem he travels in various places Key In the fphasra chap. z. while he was about the duties of the cir the butt of the south; in Gno monica book first fcho lio propof.
lio fecundo propof z8 In the book about the builders ca, &ufuinftrumenti, cujufdamHorome- three chapters And finally in Altrolabius lib. Can. iz. Qiixcumfmtejufmo- dfutfineillsnullaEIorologiorumconftru- let it be rightly established; there is life here that tioftraj fpeculation induftria new to bring forth methods, lest in this part Horo let us be seen in the absence of the loggias ftudiofis. Now I will join whether or not this problem ma, not that there is one thing, or little between let them differ; fed because whether or not demfereprteceptis abfolvatur, mutualafque give them their hands. II. For when he found the meridian line Let us follow any Horizon, nothing else we are looking for a common purpose of the meridian circle, than with the same plane he made a horizontal one; only then does it take place in the same place, because ad not many miles to the south they differ; it happens that even in the same plane reseflepoflint lineaj meridian, nemeo- those things which he diftant But while the height of the polyob- let us boil, let us search the arc of the circle of the meridian. Dian intercepted between the Horizon, the pole from that side to which the same pole inclines. Or, as it happens, we inquire whether the throat, which in the meridian plane to the cent trum of the world makes a worldly axis with com fortifying the meridian and the horizon, this along the meridian line of the horizon. So that completely different between fe fint these two pro blemata, when the inveligance of one is cast in one way on the horizon, but in another in the southern circle. Nevertheless, as God bus, the kinship of both is great, because He holds to the practice of inventing. III. I continue with the same problems two others are contained, viz. , the discovery of li vertical lines in the horizontal plane, li of the equatorial plane, in the meridian plane, which is not less than that frequency. Im- generally from these, those proceed: thus that the vertical line may first be found, or ae of the quinquennium, and from here the noon was written na, or axis. At the same time, I am writing a new book It does not need art. Since the South nut, Vertical primary to feinvice fint returned, and both to the horizon through perpendicular; it happens that they also communicate lest the fetters which they make with the horizon this is the meridian line, and the vertical adfe they are perpendicular to each other, of any kind there is no one to raise the lines, even moderately in Euclid, who is dead. the same that way the axis, and tcquinoftials to fe in in turn they are perpendicular, a circle ipfe gquinodtial to its axis exhausted What is to be considered as fi bows becomes ra tion, or angles, will also be deduced here- just from the inclination of the circle of quinoftia lis, the inclination of the axis, or the arc of the height of the pole. Aa z When Artit Magna Book For when the arc of the south, menfuransin the invention of the equinoctial tilt, five angle, the height of the line in the meridian plane lt' nocftial, with common feftion midday ni, of the horizon, the femper becomes the complement then the arc of the height of the pole, or the angle of inclination the axis of the nation, as it is taught: it is clear, the arc of the roofer's inclination is taken away from the quadrant, or the angle of inclination ae I return the five-night course from the corner, whether it should remain or not the throat of the axis of inclination, or the arc of height of the pole And this line of discovery; meridian from the vertical line, or height the poles are equatons from the inclination, and on the contrary, it must be kept carefully; indeed, I did not in providing light on the problems, fed in it also applies to many others; as you were this will become manifest. IV. Now to the practical ipfam closer and let us yield: for which two mints are edible. Qua is one drans, or square fire whatever liudinllrumentum, through which the height of So the case was brought to a close; read about what the ninth first book Aftrolabii Clavius, as well as cap. zz leaflets from the factory menti Horometer, that for the sake of brevity ruiadpcrfi- I like to call it this way. In these lo- vacation cisreperian way of taking the height nes of the Sun, then the fabric of different Intru- mentors for this business.
Among the things that seem to me the most important is the to obtain two: namely, Quadrans, which I give cet con(Irruere in the flower of the first canon Aftrolabii; a square in that little book bricks with the head of the hourometer dfum For both, be very careful- that which is prepared does not present itself (gra so that the entire height of the Sun was obtained, fed even the minutes, which must be taken at all there is a reason for the meridian linear growth, high altitude He will allow this in three times the difference between the two grind: that which, that is, Quadrans, infuse indeed it becomes more expedient, but in conftrucftion suffer some difficulty, and for for a quarter of the population, as well as for after the division of the same into many parts the males are equal, even if they are in one quadrant Protheory! Part suffocating This, indeed, namely Qua wire, on the other hand, has a fabric file, when all lines fint retffie, divide and they require no finer hair. But in ufu it requires a calculation, from which of the parts abfciffs with the favor of the fine, or the tangents, the corner of the height must be taken out, to be quoted in the place to is explained by Clavio. Not for me though there seems to be no reason, why, because of this kind of thing the calculus, which is a single multiplication, or I will divide, I was such a noble failure let's go especially when it becomes the most extreme, and absolutely from here beyond other. . diligence, find the meridian line, or the height of the pole, in it requires a doublet. For neither is its smoke, to use the same Square I think that in the common UFO, when through the height I would like to spend an hour on Sunday, veil- a problem of minor importance; fed folus in more difficult problems, as they are two, which we propose in this chapter, quafah find the temfemel with due diligence fits, "in the city, or place, where that he happened to stay: for, as he wished we will say in a nutshell, easily from the south line femel found any number of wings in other pla but after not having removed much from thence, I was able to write a letter they are at the end of great work. V. There is another intrumentum, which in pla no horizontal line is marked by shadow; how viz. gnomon, feu ftjlus someone rizontemreftus projects, whatever it is com munitions of the horizon, and of the vertical circle at which time the sun is shining. And it is possible to draw a line like this a gnomon, or even a wire, can be seen to be made anything perpendicular; Cla- still more propofitionext. book gnome, the Rhine in ch. pamphlets on the device of the Horometer, why is it certain that there is something wrong with it? you may see: In whose stead I conftru is a little more complicated, and you can force it much further ufum more accommodating, that is, the rule than give me a leaf such as you see depicted here, and I was also not obfcurein let it end For in it that folly is required, as the lowest side of the mustache, and the front face, which represent the planes A, B. to fe invi cem fint returned, carefully flattened:
let them be stretched out, one near the beak, and the other near the opposite side Not really bears, as the same fintparallel hair between fe, or then, to other rules how much do you dig? there at will; by the way you will complete A, B, two threads, or rather two the hair of the tail is equidistant the mustache however fi this is done, the same damage it should also be made suitable for other types, pre- The width of the ruler is strong and not too small. Ad rZ calculus of the fciatheric records At the end of the fcholi canon iz. Aftro- yet another injury is brought to the lips aClavius, that the ingenious Peter No- Nius had already thought of him in the end, so that the line and shadow returned with the benefit of the side of the inherited triangle, and the height of the Sun, with the benefit of the quarter in it then they were carried away. When I first started diflem, fu mm with the help of the discovery was really pleased, no because of the fabric, which seemed to be cilis rem in abltraft confideranti, fed ma for the sake of the fire I was expedient in every way then, as he prepares. True in practice for me it is a matter of life to have faith otherwise. For when through Intrumentum majufculus (for a small he did not get involved in such problems) I had been a victim of the attacks; find out
do not show greatness; indeed not the little particles of shadows, which the sides of the triangle project, diftinfte adverb He was able to do it, so much so that at every level the drants, whom he had to take away, not from fate it will continue Whence he was dead; this left behind, adfolitarerecurre: in to whom, let this one thing be offered, as a help the system is established by two, one of which Does he notice the shadow through the intrument? brought, and the other the height of the Sun by the same let him take a moment of time, no one is ignorant The error is due to double damage. Yes yet I still bring in what was betrayed by Nonius let someone's chin smile, I will comfort him rim, like a thin wire from the center of the Quadrant it depends For this little thing a particle of shadows, which may be distinguished, I will extend it, it will take much more open steps desired from the quadrant, than from the same um Doubts are removed. In place of the side that should throw a line of shadows, you can run two threads so broken by us, that any one can easily ex he threw it away VII. To cover the line of shadows, put it down pre-compromised intrumentum fupra pla whether horizontal, such as the plane C, so utbafisinftrumenti fuperficiem plani con tinge Then carry around the same intrument then, until they coincide in the fubjeft plane and three pieces of thread or hair of the shade, in the rein v. gH which the ipfe of the shadow of the hunchback represents, as you may see in the figure attached here. The same for reftaHI, there will be a line of shadow, feu com the fortifications of the horizontal plane, and the vertical the matter which passes through the Sun at that time, which could be drawn Because the umbrf line they do not depict something permanent, that is the circus will have to be two in the same shadow to mark a sickle prick, or at least two pricks juxtasurfaces A, B So in fact 'remotely in he will be able to lead through those two points line HI, by virtue of another rule, which others
we would like to fix the rendered lines. Maybe it's snowing side, which is opposed to fu- performance A, B, iifdemfuperficiebus factuni becomes parallel, and in the manner of a rule per- He let it be broken: for then it was next to it side may be in piano C, another line bere, which with the parallels of the straight: HI, re- prasfentabic also ipfa common reading horizontal and vertical through the Sun then proceeding as we seek. To me that But the first reason is more pleasing, because of what you do lius fithabere rule fubtile well con- ft rough, than the rule of foiiaarn, as it is in the instrument we use. In this same figure you also have mo while taking the sun's relation through the Quadra the matter, not that the quarter is so femmered it is not necessary to ffpende, that it may be received by the fins there is a ray of the Sun passing through the top of the what is he of whom we have spoken; Fed from any place, by fuffending the quarter theme For all the rays of the Sun are one and they are parallel in time, as in trana You would like to be explained about the manipulations. But that from these two even the problems of the propofitites in moderation The same problem now follows matum praxis: that with various exiftas, I live however; to distinguish titles, to make it easier that which is sought may be found. We will be ordered or from that practice, which besides the three tions of the height of the Sun, and the three shadows, another nothing fools: what is done with genius as from the ingenious B. M. Father Christ Phtophorus Grienbergerius found it here himself in favor of those who fubtiiibushujuf- God's geometrical methods are given I brought it to bear. The problem! The meridian line, the height of Toli, A to ampli- Brought tn- jjiianm. ipo Artis rnagw Book East West amplitudes, parallel near the Sun, from three shadows, (g three high of the Sun, by a new method Geometrically re- to perish VIII. In the place of the Sun, or the whole day he rests, well, through a good match of the day tem, some good com a plane, or a table, because it does not heat it is easily bent, and it is by cap. as to it can be done exactly when it is freed; &fi perhaps mar death becomes white, somewhat darkened, so that the whiteness does not work for the eyes, and in it the shadow;
they are more thoroughly distinguished, which he fuses with experience rience, on the white plane vixpofTe juftedifcer- no Wherefore that stone seems most comfortable a black man, who confue he lived, and from that time he became a boxer in Germany they are made, or even in most places I give the mouse and towers are covered; whom as compla nare because of the tenderness of labor so also he admits the most delicate lines, how easily they can be destroyed again with pumice stone, when he wills to take them away. Then in the square no fc conflict was described in the circle ABCD, average size, time in the morning about one o'clock, or the next afternoon The sunrise, when the air is purer, will be offered first by influence whether with the ftrudlum shadow AE, passing through the centre E, or at least the shadow of the fire line is noted first vertical, in which the Sun then shines the same poflea can be drawn parallel through the cent trum E, cujufmodi efl v. g. returned to AE. Here III. Proibeoria Part II du6ta, or rather marked with two pundtis in a shadow, or what I would rather prove, was re-hidden in him f tu inflrumento, in which both hairs are um the bra coincides in one, as quickly as the poflea natentur pundtajuxtafuperfkies, A, B, along that line is drawn at a more convenient time; be taken at the end of the delay for a quarter, or the square of the height of the Sun, which is in the circle ABCD, what kind of arc is made AB, abfciffus, ad either part of the shadow AI. Second, It should be noted that around noon, when Soleftaltier, shade CE, with a height of fua let no one smoke the bow of CD. denied which I spent about one or two hours before Occafu the third shade FE will be offered, Solifquealtitude FG For these prepared fa- dta will be a necephalic operation, which through in- it was necessary to invert the flames, and to which Solar beams were required. The rest, however operation, henceforth in the shade, and everywhere else at the right time, even on busy days the bus can be completed in this way. From pun B, D, G of the height of the sun are lowered into the proper perpendicular shadows BH. DI, G K, (which is easily done with the height of the tongues of the bows they are smoked on the other side les and pundta are joined at the ends of the returns, as in many places it is offered by Clavio) fecan- you see the same shadows in pundtis H, I, K, quo rum two HK, which obviously are in the shade morning, and evening, are not taken with the rest at which point I, you return IH, Ilv, which verfus H. K, produce the fint anyway. In the same way SOUTH
Seventeenth that pundtis I, H, are done at will, para laws IL, HM, and likewise from pundtis I, K, paral lela IN, KO, and indeed IL, IN, are smoked such as vertical ID; at HM, sharks ipfiHB, KO, ipfiKG. per L, M, cast out tur redaLM, fecans IH, inP: &per pundta N, O, redo NO, making IK, in Q; and they found two pundtas, P, Qquaut demon- ftratClaviusin fcholio canon, iz. aftrola bii, they are in the common fedtion of the plane of the hour zontal, parallel, on which day the Sun rose it happened And therefore, let the same points P, Qjre- dtajunganturPQeaerit ilia common fe- dtio; and so, when ER was returned, he asked her out at the center E, let down the perpendicular will be li no meridian, as demonstrated in the cited place there Indeed, any other line to the same perpendicular, will be the meridian line, which from the calculus of the Sciatberic records. The issue is reda IS, from which I was rescued from the height of the pole there For if, from it is the same IS, stir it up then the perpendicular IT, or through, the reed PQ It is carried out in parallel, and the same IT is evaluated cular ID, should be taken as equal: Conftituet dudaTS, the angle ITS, the height of the pole, IST, the angle of completion of the height po li, whom we read, as in the same School is shown But here he works to a greater extent There are some things to note. First, as For them, the days near the end of the month should be chosen obfc-rvatt0 than others near the equinox; therefore conveniently I v r r t-v f inftituetida. . that around the equinox on the same day Decima- tions of the Sun vary more than about folftity, where Sornon on the same day only, fed even on several days, such as in the same woman by parallel. So that then at any end er rore fenfibili reda PQJumipoflit for com
fortified by the faith of that parallel, and the plane of the hour zontal X. Secondly, when a universe such as God of this problem will be brought to the fore the discovery that the pounds P, that part pr? The onion must be worked out, like the same punda let them be found: that which is to be done, they love it they are offered three times, with which: here they are thrown out. In first, as in leading parallels, e. g. IL, HM, (understand the same about the rest) their inclination let the verve be reduced to a lesser height, namely, the verfus pundu H. Then in du these things can be boiled down to the same parallels practice, which, among other things, in similar works I will try to inform you. Centers I, H, two arcs were drawn at every interval VX, YZ, the vertical parts of the inclination, from eif- and any equal bow shall be taken away from him les VX, YZ, greater or lesser, as in the inclination requires the same: for in doubt HZ, will be parallel between fe the mouths, by which the bows were brought down, as regards their diameter terea. in receiving you return IL, HM, fumma care must be taken, as to the respondents the perpendiculars are equal to each other. For it may happen that the LM, which: protracted from bet to present the point P, too obliquely I will say, IH, they will be smoked together perpendiculars ID, HM, nonfolium ae such as, fed also multiple, e. g. double such as IL, Hm, or triple, quadruple, in which it is easy for someone to start I do not know the intervals of the first lines they have been received very early. But if in this due diligence is also used on the part P will be found much more precisely, as it may be seen in the figure; where do you see the right line it is much more correct to make a straight IH than a re I will give LM, which, however, will also be led vc- to be more certain about finding the point P, fi- indeed, and ipfa must by the same weight trartfire, fi ertor no one is more utpatetexpropofit. q. lib Euclid. XI. Here also these other offerings tio, pofle fcilicet from eifdefh three shades, the heights of the sun being found, the third is to be found um punished, which you accumulateP; na reda line exiftat: which indeed when can be conveniently held, it is not negligent whereas, I am certain for three pundafempers Where are the reda lines drawn? and we are informed of that third pound he will return from the operation of the fada, but be in it and the rest of the line, as before it is For Junda KH, verfus pundu the lower altitude of the Sun is protracted, such as it is, point H, the rurfus are carried through K, H, two parallel Kg, Hb, equal or multiple corresponding perpendiculars KG, HB triples) duda namquegb, &produdafeca- bit redam KH, in that third pound a: that yet we could not have it in shape, because excessive importance: that which sometimes happens when the heights of the pounds K, H, pa they differ Wherefore perhaps not met he was also supported by the fourth shadow when to be offered at the height of the day on the same day as Ma gis differ from each of the other pounds K, H, which one? fi fate also differs from the other pundil, will be found eommodiftime nonfo light the third pound, fed also the fourth and the fifth, that he may be forced from other operations the bus is here. XII. I like the polished place here too it is a game to invent, that perhaps in practice from us he who, from the practice of Nonius, trusted He notices that some people have been brought down; 'No on the declination, and the position of the Sun, in latitude Indeed, everything is also very easily obtained from noftrapax First, be at noon for ER, in the center of E, will be perpendicular gatur rEf, fccans the circle ABCD, which rizontemrefert, impundisr, f, eaeritver- tical line showing the true punda Ortus, and Occafus, namely punda r, f, in which hori- the equinoctial, or proper, zontum makes vertical But indeed reda PQ, making a single the horizon ABCD, in x, y, will give pun while x, on that day the sun has risen, while y, occafus; and thus the arc rx, fy, two Then, let ABCD be the same circle it is pious for the circle of Analemmas for the meridian circle, in which reda pER, it is a common weed of the horizon with the mere diano, and let the arc pq be taken, the complement
to the height poh will be equal to q E c, com forts of the meridian and equinox; to which fi through the mass R, is parallel to tRu, it will be Ipl Art magm Book III. Hrothmk Part II MERIDIE ST Seventeenth that will be the true diameter of the parallel of the Sun, which on the same day the Sun to the motion of the first mobile de- He will write: And the bow that, or that, will be the bow of the decline of the same nation: from which finally the place So The issue will be resolved in the Zodiac or through the charts of the decline nations in the fphtera propofity, or through it which book Aftrolabii in the fcholio canon. whether They will be preferred. Demonstrations I do not bring any of these practices, because tnnes immediately depend on the conflict dione of the Analemmas, which fufe demonfra Clavius then preached in Gnomonica book And we in those who were fruitful which we will demonstrate. Similarly, I say nothing meet some of the coffees that are strong to run in countries far beyond, or To the Boreals, because it is the most probable reason I have some of these parts, in which I grew up ma day never elt hours, where ca- they have no place in the fur. Why also ex if you understand them well, you can easily fool everyone they will come Problem The meridian line, and the height of Holi by two degrees two altitudes of the Sun, moreover, its place is given in Zo diaco, to find Eometrica of this Problem you will find the book lips no. can. no. whose instead I will bring here the operation of Arithmetic cam, let me first touch upon the same Theory, which elt such Theory. It Meridian ABCD, Horizon AD, vertex B, two verticals BE, BG, trans going through the sun, they came out at different times ftenteminF, H. The pole of the world becomes C, from which to each place of the Sun fint twofold bow of the greatest circles CF, CH; family thrice by the same sun ca, the led arc becomes cir the most important HF. God co, fi becomes known ar cus GE, which two vertical from Hori zonte they intercept, you na with two in height the dinis of the Sun, which the arcs EF, GH and together with the declination of the Sun, which at lo when it belongs to the date of the sun, it is known where which would be the arc CD, the height of the pole, and not arc GD, ED, vertical distances from me radiano from the side of the pole C. For from the arc GE, the angle HBF will be known, just as easily how many degrees is the arc of GE; from a height for them EF, GH will be known as the same com plementa, arcus fcilicet FB, HB Also from The declination of the Sun will give the arc CEI, CF, they are like sharks, because they are brought from the pole C, to the parallel of the Sun. And both will be the declension of the complement becomes fi declension Borealis: if the declination becomes Southerly, it will be each composed of an arc of declination, and in the quadrant, as is evident from the fphasra. Of which fic may be allowed to conclude propofitum. Comprehend from the arcs BH, BF, and the angle henfo, which are given, will be found by means of a problem ma of the last Lemm. Aftrolab. Clavii, three times your arc HF; finally from the three la He will be known to the faithful by the three j%m marks. the same Lemm. angle BHF. Then be in the triangle CHF, on the side HF, let it be lowered the perpendicular arc CI, dividing both an I will bisect the throat HCF than the arc HF in a right-angled triangle HCI, except the beak HC, known as the side HI, which is adjacent to the angle CHF: and therefore by the probi. the last issue the same angle CHF will become known, which When the whole BHF is fired, it will remain a corner BHC, ipfe known. About whom when in In the triangle BHC, the sides are also given Of the calculus Tabulartifot Sciathe made.
BH, HC; perzz. to the righteous, a bow will be given; the completion of the height of the pole and so on the arc of the height of the pole CD. Also by zi. of the righteous, he will be caught from the three bows but the angle of the triangle already known lus HBC, this is the bow of GD, diftantias ver tical circle BG, from the meridian side leave the pole C. to which the arc GE is drawn then the arc ED, the length of the bottom, is vertical BE. That fi instead of the angle BHF, by zi. robl. the angle BFH was increased, and licfublatusfuilfet from the angle CFH, which is equal to the angle found CHF; remaniflet in the triangle BFC, known as the angle BFC, which they circumambulate, knowing the sides BF, FC. Hence by zz. the righteous, he would be found again
the arc BC, and the angle FBC of the arc ED, by adding that arc GE, it would be composed ar because GD When one it is vertical tra meridianum, Sc the other beyond, as in appa in this shape ret: then each angles BHF, BFH, it must be drawn from either water of the angles CHF, CFH; and they will remain the angles BHC, BFC, known, about which with again given the fint sides, it will be known as the arc BC, And each of the angles HBC, FBC, as di it is God's doubt: Does he want to be done quickly, like the Sun? occupying the same parallel, in different if the height of the pole is high, the same can be given feint namely, the bow, AE of the bow, of water, with at the two altitudes of the sun, EF, GH, ae with which, although BE, BG are vertical, not so in that way they are inclined to the south. For this would be done by the greedy, not by the fibi con blowing the practice out of the lost theory. If indeed that height of the pole diverges, from eif- they can't be brought out with mortgages in any way touch But it is easy to give in to doubt, refpon- when I give, let it be improbable, that the same may be given there For on both sides the triangles BHF Profound aquatics because of aquatic arcs, as triangle CHF Whence the corner was removed CHF, from BHF, would leave the watery corners BHC; around whom the waters fint with their sides it would be necefle, as arcusBC, on both sides ef- fent water, which is not used. I don't go there the same will be given at different heights bus pole: and will remain a firm practice from add- fta Theory unearthed, than now a single exam we will declare Pragmatism. On some horizontal plane there are two shadows KE, KG, converging on at the point K, from which the arc E G was drawn, for the greatest capacity of the plane, and the same love the nation would be destroyed in steps and minutes even fertile, it can be done. It is assumed that fem for example the same arc GE, grad. min. fertile how big is the bow Roman horizon intercepted between the two Verticales, who at the time of Solftii? ftiv H. They proceed from Occafu through the Sun. De should they be treated with the same care? the heights of the Sun's shadows correspond to those you at which time Rome was plundered they are responsible for grad. min. fertile degree min. fecund. Which po- when each hour comes before noon, lie is on the same side of the meridian, infti- the calculus must be maintained according to the Theory, and figure number as it is done. The first operation, by which it is invigorated arc HF Let it be first, that finus to tus, to the end of the arc BF, namely at the end of the completion of the height of the Sun minor; ita438iz7i. finusarcusBH, this is the end of the completion of the greater height, to another, and a certain number will be found the fourth, namely z Secondly, it will be done, ur x to z number four approximately discovered; so fine verfus of the corner HBF, or arc GE, given to another: find and the number rqiz67. to which fi is added Artisjnagnz Liber fine verfus arcus gra. .rmn. fecund, by which the arcs BF differ between fe BH; fmus verfus arcus HF will be completed, par and consequently from the fine tables the same arc HF, will be grad. min. Fe when whom we were looking for. The second operation is found very well angle BHF. Let it be first, end to tus, at the end of the arc BH; so fmus arch HF, just found, to something else, and a certain number will appear where Secondly, let it be that is the number of quar you just found it, at the end of the whole, thus the number quiefldiffe rent between finum verfumarcus BF, and between the end of the bow degree i2. min. fertile which between fe the arcs BH, HF differ, to another: produce tur throat, which becomes larger than the whole fin, will be return the same greater angle, nempegrad. i z6 min. fertile The third operation, by which it is invigorated angle CFH, BHC Let it be, tangent to the arc of completion HC, hoceflad the tangent of the declination So lis, qua: in the example of efl grad. min. so tangent arc HI, grad. my
nut fertile three times. This is what happened nus arcus HI, femiffis found arcus HF, ad another: produced and finus com filling the angle CHF, and therefore the same or the throat will be grad. min. fec. Whom you will take it from the corner of the BHF, with the help of the completion having found the reason, the remainder will become angle B HC, grad. min. fertile The fourth operation, by which the bow BC finally the arc of the height of Pole CD. Let it be the first, as to the end of the arc H G, namely to the end of the completion of the decline of the Sun degree min. so fine bow BH, to another: and the fourth number will be released
Secondly, let it be that number four approximately discovered; so the end of the right angle BHC, to another: and the number will be taken right arch grad. min. fertile between fe differ the arcs HC, BH, compose tur finus verfus arcus BC, partly And therefore the bow is indeed BC, of completion the height of the pole will be grad. minute Fe when And the arc is CD, the height of the pole he who is asked will be a grad, min. before terea III. Protheory Part II they receive them whole, for the sake of many the health of operations. Fifth, the operation by which we will find them angles GBD, EBD, fire arc GD, EB, finally the arch GA, EA Let it be first, that to the end of the arc BC, in the lower part discovered by operation; so finus ar cus BH, to something else; and the number will be found Secondly, let this number be fourth, to mere who efl the difference between finum verfumarcusHC, finum verfum arcus grad. min. fertile by which the arcs BC differ between fe BH, to something else: and the fmus verfus will be produced the angle HBC, or GBD, this efl the arc GD, of parts which, when greater, becomes finite on the whole, the arc of GD will be greater than a quarter, see although grad. min. fecUnd. de futrahatur arcus GE, grad. min. fertile will remain the arch ED, grad. min. fertile And finally both once again the futradius from the semicircle will remain bow AG, gr. min. fecund. but art cus AF, will contain grad. min. fe when How much will the same bow bear, fi perpropofionem lib. Gnom. escape tur, from the same heights of the Sun, Sc from ve at the lower height of the pole, wherefore commonly po relies on Romsegra. not grad. and i6. min. fertile, as little as a little in we have come: which doubtless is still much longer let us find something more different, nifffemper in clay operations manure, even small fertile ones, which: They are not at all to be neglected in the family problems. How from the discovered bows cArf jlE, the meridian line is to be joined. pTfiadconflituenda line Me- whether of the arcs GD, ED, because yet both the greater efl in the quarter, he desired the same from the thigh circulo futrahefe, utremanerentarcusAG, AE, smaller quadrants, whichever is easier and the reds are numbered by the quadrants of Ca they were carried away first. Whence the bow GD, ED, are not in the major squadron, no; it will be necessary to subtract the same from the semicircle: we will use the same direct nor in the line of the Meridian, which: so he will have faith. From the center of K, or from any other pundlo L, shadow: for example KG, to whom in fphsra refpondet the vertical BG, the bow was carried MN part of the arc MN. the daughter of the bow AG, nem on foot as many steps and minutes as per it's hot )e calculation of the records of Sciatherlcamm. calculate the arc AG. Jun- for give LN, it will be the meridian line, the same which, when extended, will make the rest of the shadow KE, the vertical skin of BE, in pounds Q, making the angle NOE, so many degrees, how many contains the arc AE found. Yes, yes from the center O, or from any other weight brae KE, the arc PQ, the branch of the arc, was described AE, it will be necellario duda reda OQGterum the meridian line is the same as the line LN, or even parallel to the same. But the due part, to which it is not easy arcusMN, or PQdacile con
it is thrown from the ipfi obfervations, according to the facili cet before or= the south pole of Funtfada. For when some shadow is cast in front the south, such as both are in the example addudo: the angle MLN will be fixed, or POQdemerad the finiftra of the faueumbra, This is for that part, which: it is for us niftram, let us imagine that we are near pun- while G, or E, from the side of the Sun, which then ha we will drink from behind, and turn our faces verfus pundu K, in which the shadow: concur runt, and this when the meridian line was found must be drawn through the arcs AG, AE: for when the bow of GD, ED would be cut off, those to protect them to the right. But when some shadow is fixed after noon, and the rurfus is to be worked through the arc AG, or AE, then make the angle due to that arc so there will be a shadow on the right side, at the end but when to the operation of the com the arcs GD, ED will be seen more modestly. Don't I think that things are so plain to many people get That, rather, I fear instead of admo let us not deny, by what reason the former was carried away angle GKE, which in the horizontal plane covered by two shadows: For as is evident from the didis, that corner with the two altitudes of the Sun through which carefully offer a square or Vatis, they are the foundation of the whole operation To this end, then, I begin to read the elf that: in the booklet about the fabric Clavius tells the lips. For those who perceive it will be easy to know how many are not degree, fed even how many minutes so early, how fertile is the elk E G completed, or angle EKG. Because yet in them It is almost impossible to practice, as the bow E G, he can be extended in either direction to a quarter; id which the narrowness of the plane does not permit; I am alive to this difficulty to drink a remedy: that is to say, as then from art with EG, as far as possible or the fixed part of the circle is taken away, the same The opening of the circle, in which he was quickly concealed; or the twelfth part, namely the bow of the gra two or a sickle bow degrees for neither much smaller nor greater with a fixed part of the circle from the arc EG, produ therefore it cannot be taken away, nor the bow or degrees by continuous fubdivision nor can the arch be considered the next greater: fortaffis is not incongruous, so it will be allowed to be fat to touch It is described first in any inter a rampart with a large arch, for example RS, fenced part of the circle Then the centers R, S, where but again at an interval of two equal arcs les fe between lying in T. For this mo. if he were to join the reda TK, would he make it? throat TKE, degrees, and so on produda, take away from the bow EG, the bow to the same degree. But because in the example dem K T, didurn arc EG, conveniently not makes that is why that corner was closed o. steps are still to be taken, smoke doipfi KT, a: quale interval cen three V, T, carrying two equal bows les fe fecantes in X. Duda for KX, com now he makes the bow EG, and the aulgrtque ar with EZ, degrees. And so it's easy Bb is z Artis magna Uber ProtheorU Parsll. efl: the same arc EZ, in the same gra to distribute the two, and to transfer the same into the rest of the bow ZG: cut as many pof- they are If for the first arc EZ, it is divided into parts, for example, five sharks, rur- Now any three parts will be a whole bow EZ, rich in all degrees Yes, Mar cus ZG, in the fuos degrees which it contains, be in- I will use the same intervals on him such as you see represented in the figure. Where you also notice in arcuEG, keep it ri arcus Ea, grad. and under the arch aG, which must be moved in minutes, no indeed immediately, when in the arc EG, no He finds sufficient degrees, fed by mediators in tenth parts, in this manner. First How many tenths of a degree are there? let the arc aG include, eofcilicetmodo in which in the lines you rest the tenth part; grow up ri, by multiplying the same particle tenfold aG, either through the fe lump, or with the whole degree: and the parts found should be noted. Then, from the rest of the particles, make a bow the ten is not exactly completed for some degrees, the tenth parts are sought after
of one-tenth, this is one-hundredth niusgradus, and almost the same parts as before those found were brought to the right. And finally, from the part of which the last bow is about the couple had stolen the entire steps, they were caught one-tenth of one-tenth is given of the tenth, this is the thousandth part of one gram dus, which became again the parts previously noted to the right, and to the whole number denominator was written, found it will be a fraction that counts a thousand parts the contents of one level of fat in the particle BC Let all things be done in accordance with the example it shall be divided by the first tenfold one tenth: the perfect decuplation, leader you deceive the tenth part of one: and finally by the third tenfold, when one of the rurfus one-tenth of one-tenth, one-tenth which, indeed, they produce in a deep order And therefore the particles aG will contain one hundred and twenty-one thousandth parts the graclus of one, which according to the rules of the brothers numbers are easily reduced to parts agenarias, this efl: to the first minutes, fecun give For if the numerator of the fraction is x many multiplied by the fertile minutes of one degrees, number produced per the denominator is divided; what happens by the abjection of the three figures on the right rum numbers to divide; it will remain as often as or usually counting minutes give the bow aG which; be divided again by fertile minutes, which one minute the first time they do it, they will find minutes. first, and they will remain or minutes fecund, from which the arch of aG. If you go then beyond the rich minutes she is added to the bow, of degrees will be the whole arc EG, grad. min. x or about minutes so much so that we have almost made a fool of ourselves ro of this Chapter. A liter fortaffis exa&ius, or faltem with threatened labor, the same angle EKG, we will also mention this reason. Fx point b, the shadow'KE, which is a great deal away from the point K, is erected perpendicular to it cular bc, making the second shadow in the pun- Ao c. Divide Kb into o. parts such as (indeed, if from the beginning the same Kb, fumptafuiffiet, ten such parts will not do the job with this division, and the strongmen immediately brought out the spares more among the fe, than the fi will effect in- vent through the posterior division) menfu- in parts hundreds of thousandths ejufdcm reftx Kb, to do- in the fourth place, of which we have already mentioned tion For on this account the reffia will be known bc, as the tangent of the angle bKe, refpe- cflu we divide the whole Kb into a hundred thousand parts divided, and consequently from the tables of tangents the same angle will not be ignored. z But-because praxis, than this in business it must be held, it is so much more difficult, the more reftaKb, longer exiftit; better at all we are sure that it will be done in another, greater plane, and let us take reftx Kb, however many cem, such as is the refta Kb, here in the margin pifta, duplaipfiusKb. For all di- vifiones, they will become much more comfortable, snake ipfeEKG game, with much less error will be caught But then also right bc multiplying is a fruitful multiplication nem redae Kb, what kind is rectx Ke, than ac we took a double ipfius bc, so as to pass quickly it is investigated by the size of the EKG angle, ie It is done in this way. Marked by the third part but the tenths which are seen straight Ke, abfeindere from the straight line Kb, fu be very careful about the matter if the liquid particles are, and the same is multiplied from K, each to g. . And since in Kg, they contain there are four parts of the decimx ipfius Kb, The right-hand side of the ternary number is already known your fourth number, and the rest separately la hg, with the favor of the circus, I once more decu- b it is filled by the weight K, and each is moved, so that I ipfius hg, tenfold becomes Kl. When! fex takes the tenth part from Kb, ad it is given to the two figures previously noted three times tia, namely fexta, and the rest ml, rutfus each is multiplied to n, and again no He should not be prfixed by the mere scribes mere by the fact that also reda En, fex. it should contain the tenth part of the parts right Kb. I would like it to be considered without that figure. D) from the calculation of the Sciatheric tables.
already foretold; at last it will be decoupled and the remaining particles mn, from point K, and to the point p, which indeed auiert precisely nine-tenths. Wherefore four must be added to those numbers to the right is the ninth figure, and it will be total number of parts nem pe hundredthousandths: in which in- teiligiturfefla refla Kb, as from demon- It is clear from the reason of this practice that In the cited place, Clavius brings Whence when even the end is all in common it is assumed that it is divided into las, the refla Ke will be known, in pairs end of the whole Kb. And because it is the same the ratio of double Kb to double Ke how many branches Kb, to the branch BC: Si Kb, in the shape of the number x]. is assumed to be equal of that, that is, the whole fine, will be the line bc, tangent to the angle bKc, of the parts and therefore from the tangent tables the same corner will not be ignored for it will be found that grad. min. fe- when how much more we were a About the tenfold part that lare must be offered, as quan but some of them are so small that he cannot grasp the ring comfortably give, so that then the rest may be received, as with that tithe is too small it was so good, what is it like? let him Even if he is, he wants to be caught cine fate conveniently. For if she relied which particle is decoupled from the punch b verfus K; it will also be the rest of the whole bK, tenfold of that particle than of it was necessary to couple, from point K, verfus b. Yes, sometimes very much con will lead to a more informed operation, fi of both particles payment from each term K, b. Yes for the end of both the decuplation in if the same point falls, it will be a cousin but it is very likely, in acce the choice of particles, and the multiplication Don't make a mistake. For be in ten tion, for example, of the particle ef, err then there is no such thing and for each point g, it is necefe, as fi again the rest of the part eh, I am wrong at the end re is decoupled, from point b, verfus K, fi nis multiplication falls into pun- river g. Moreover, he adds another key a warning, that is, as when for example, the particle ef cannot it is convenient to accept the rosary; as then she then the particle is smoked together with the pro the tenth part of the whole, fic de ed. That warning is true here
it does not seem to be necessary, when either of the particles, this is either or eh, it is a comfortable smoke. because the whole tenth part of fh, femper becomes fate great, and so on and so forth g is not punished, as has been said. Confession In which manner is taught, in which exaffiijji- I am conflicted, says ur angle, anyone pvopofitus x8 X twice in the last three nu- Meris go difla, it is opened no twice the most excellent way any angle pro- relished even in fertile minutes and it different from that, than Clavius showed the favor of Quadrant, which here by way of Corollary he wished to carry it, that it might be found more easily. For the corner must be closed again EKG level minutes, fecund. which we have so far developed. From the table of tangents, its tangent is sought, which, fi let the ratio of the proportional part be considered, inve refpeflu end of the whole parts. Then from the refla Kb, du bia on some level however and the same fe- let it be divided into ten equal parts, Kp, nine of the tenth parts of course, as many as there are units in the last found the figure of the right tangent. And this re- ftaKp, divided exaflein parts no indeed, by printing punfta in the ipfa line, searching for the interval of the ejufmodi a part, a tenth. When this is found, the line is smoked Km, containing the tenth part of the whole Kb, that is to say, as many as there are units, in pe- the last figure tangent from the right side, which is the same Km, let mn be added, ae such as at an interval of one-tenth of an inch, Kp which we do with the help of the circinus. And the rurfus, the whole refla Km, should be divided into equal parts, at the interval of which it is smoked equal to mi, which is added to the rurfum to Km, fex of the tenth parts of the whole Kb, because also the third figure close in tangent, to- the same units are completed. Divide the au also refla Kl, into ten parts ae
such as, it is smoked at an interval equal to hg, beyond the reflam Kb, the tenth of four parts rum indeed, in the tangent, the figure which stands for And finally to reflame Kf, in part three tenths, as many as one tates in the first figure finiftra ejufdem tan of the race, let the refla f e be added, an equal interval lo of the tenth part of Kg, than into ten parts it was necessary to divide them equally in poverty. It will be enimreftaKe, finally found in the last place ta, touching the corner of the KEG. refpeflu finus to fi b yours Artis magne Liber Vrotheoru? ars yours But therefore fi ex b, erigaturperpen-1 efr steps, by the fact that it is at an angle dicular to the same Kb, and each pound Finally, it is not necessary to combine the linearity iv; it will be at the point K, the crushed angle quecefitus Or at least he smokes the same Kb, half, or some other portion, such as elt in figure whether line Kb: exb, set up turperpendicularisb c, which fitfimilispars Duda will make some adjustments again the angle of the EKG, which is asked; therefore the same easy proportion of the lines ae that of multiples. T)emonfiration As regards the demonstration no practice al'atse; anyone can do it from the demon reason not to easily exorcise Clavius, above all, the operation should be carefully trusted no one from us, when he is thoroughly converted his fa, with which the same tangent let the parts of be the same as the end of the whole A rich man's fine meat is cut into ten parts equals: but here it is briefly recapitulated and I will not be burdened to give it away. I mean therefore I will return Ke, touching the efiearcus afiumpti, this is to contain parts the hundred thousandth end of the whole Kb. For first reda Kp, it contains Mms more parts Kb, as it is clear, fi lingula spares the tenth intel- they are bound to be divided into parts. But Eli reed Kp, the tenth part of mn, that he may trust from ipfa practice Therefore mn, it will contain in faith that you should give more Kb. Second, RedaKm, continetilsgsfe- Si therefore, if mn is added, the whole of the parts will be rede Kn, parts KIks and so rede ml, which by the operation of eight parts a tenth of the Kn, there will be ToooSo parties. Thirdly, Reda Km contains again the entire Kb. Added therefore ml, J5if will be the whole Kl, dfire ejuf of the parts what is the tenth part, this will be, redo hg, it will be equal The fourth, redaKh, is completed parts of the same Kb; Therefore the same Kh together with the hg, partio of the exiftet partio IS55E55 And the tenth part thereof, that is to say, rede eh the dssre of the parties Kf partiumjpffi will be composed of the whole Ke, ex parts of the end of the whole Kb. This will be the case give Ke, it will explode into parts. the end of the whole Kb, as many feet as the tangent of the angle propofiti, and consequently the same Ke, will be tangential of that corner, which was to be demonstrated. For the rest, use exadiffimahauc pra xi, be careful in the divisions blessed (namely because of the error, who perhaps I will be more comfortable in some part of the work tion, should rather be reduced by division the more it is increased, the opposite of which occurs in the multiplication of parts, which is required in other problems further down) so it the practice suffers from some difficulty tem, when the angle to be fixed is greater rum touching more femper magifque ex- let them grow Why when such angles have been of confections, in their stead by practice so will the angle of completion be made. Ex for with that decribetrullic, final error, et Now the angle is projected, let the angle be found fubtrahacur from the right In the division also of lines into ten shark parts, which is one of the main the execution of this problem, when I will not have a double boar ring available ture: we will be able to use an equilateral triangle, the sides of which are equal to the radius KB, this is I ended up completely flushed; what kind of triangle is it supposed to be? lum KBRhic drawn. For if from a wide re KB, take away KS, the tenth part of it, ne- and RS is given, the manufacturer then it will be intrument as well as for detradition the tenth part of which any other line of mine nore side KB, Si for propofita becomes li Nea q, let's smoke equal to him RT, RV, eri tque dude TV, in the square triangle RTV, equal ipfis RT, RV, this eftipfi q. as well as
refla Rb, fecansea in X, will take away his par the tenth TX, which we were looking for: so about reliquk the tenth part of it KS, were brought to the centers K, per punda- B, S, duo a bow tied to the side of the circle not the minors, as I have seen cet in the arc BR through B, de- found to be applied fint rede, ipfa KB, no much less He asked for the influence of the parties to be restored on the tenth day For if e. g. again from q, the part x o is to be taken away. the same applies the sharks BT, in the bow BR, and not given KT, making an arc through S, a while in V. Chorda therefore SV, or the interval SV, will be the tenth part of the ipfius BT, because of its lowliness of the triangles KBT, KSV, the same propo- BT, to SV, which KB, to the other side tenth KS And there are these things which are more foolish than it was a match we delivered. But I will be impressed with her let them have an interest in aftronomic matters: they to envy the more refined geometry of the ftudiofs I didn't want to. That they may see from this example, how the futility of the secret of aftronomic matters that they may be saved There are many other things here about this ean they could deliver that matter: true when the discoveries of the Council of Geography we would return with him, hither and thither with a curious assailant we decided to relegate other geometrical-traditional patterns are boring that On the calculation of the tables of the Sdathens
that we would beget So back to the thread the wall Problem Phytolic analemma conjlruere. eUm in progressing in favor of the matter of the conditior geometris fludioforum We were a little bit more flighty, just like that leafy ease and brevity in gra then let us return to the practics, that they may be fufalon with an easy brevity there Analemma, then, the catjjplica innume ris in Gnomonica's umpis will be heated, so you will depict Register any circle in the plane Quadrants are divided by lines in the center P, let them kill at right angles; by which rum NO, vertical, but CD horizontal report the issue line; a pundto C count ele vation of the equator degrees, and ex E through the center of P he will make the fourth one, which is in the center of P slaying, that is, through the apex gnomon Pt; and he will produce LM, descendants radii in the points, which in the polar from the center Ity li in hour iz. they will fasten on it pundla, through which or through the vertices of the hyperbola they are to be led; in the south it is the same pun&a from the place of the flyli in the line of the hors girdle They must be transferred on both sides, so that you have turned ces of hyperbolas to be described. aquinch Finally, for the equinodial clock vietunus exparallelisfignorum, v. paral lelus ttp, X; which we X, K, Z, Y, etc. note we see For this line makes the pawns ra gods in points, who from m point, in horo AB, the axis of the world. After this, from EF, on both sides that the declines of the pawns should be counted; next to the table a little hot and from their borders through the center of P re&ae du- dbe will give the double radiation of the Zodiac and SRP, PVK, each also two fi- you will join them, so that they become cones of pegs, which Sol the whole year's decurfu will be written in the center of P, feU pundto and the common top of both cones conjoined And he would have an analemma as it appears. Conotoma vero cono then draw the lines in this way. For horizontal Choose a plane size of your choice, v, g. of the gnomon Px, by x to the horizontal li let CD be drawn parallel to GH, and it will be a gnomonic triangle for the horizontal TPY, in which FP, the portion of the axis of the world: P Y, they know the portion of the semicircular axis: Px, the portion of the axis of fig vertical, you can measure that elt flyli. TY, deny--0"' which portion of the horizontal plane he noticed Lineavero GH, the rays of the pawns fecat in pun&is y, o, n, y, i, K, which pundla exT, I will go somewhere in the south give a horizontal log Bunt of pawns for an hour J z. Further, for the vertical clock li to the given amount of flyli PZ, for the clock vertical NO, through Z, parallel to atur IK, producetUrque triangu-U' gnomonic light for vertical PaY, and it will be a portion of Pa, axis mun give aY, portion of the vertical plane: PY, opposite the equator: PZ, por tio horizontalis, feu gnomon, a but it will refer to the pole of the axis. Line IK also made the rays of the pawns
bit in b c d Y e f g. which from a in ho the vertical line of the clock is south for they will fasten the tranflates in it pawn points, through quit hyper- bolaejuxta fertile pragmatism they are to be described. For a Polar watch, mere dianis, draw the line LM, equal tor em EF, in pundto t, rnPola; t. . n the equinoctial logia transposed to the meridian, in no. they will give the pundta, through which from the center of the hour the logs of the circle of the duffle will give the arch of the pegs get them You see, then, how in one analemma almost the whole gnomonic idea elu- cefcat But I beg the Reader, to be firm diddamente fua imprimat; for they depend from this theory the greatest of any whole The secret of gnomonics, as in the fertile fufe will be declared Artit great Book III. Protheorix ParslL Problem Conflrue the table of the decimation of the Sun. "P Ofiunt the table of this kind is calculated, or per finus, velper logarithms, as in Ar We have made you Magnetic. Because, however Tables of logarithms are not for everyone are, the calculation of the content of the sunsets we will be ordered If, therefore, the first grade of the declines the nation is to be investigated: Let it be in the analemma the greatest declination of the Sun is degrees. minutes the end of which rested. YY is true the straight nut becomes the first degree of declination who is to be sought, but PE is the end of the whole. Therefore, since so fe has PE, to ES, figuti PY, adYY; but three PE, ES, &PY: known let them have it, it will be done as the end of the whole PE, to the end You are the net most declination of the Sun, so PY, grad. V queeftdiftantiagrad. V a with the first punch Y P A, to another: YY will come out, a fine recluse, who will give in the table of fines degree of deviation for a given point plants But when all the pots are watered those from the rector, such as V npiXnQ, a2denique, &joeandem declension let them not found by declination of one pawns, will be found and of the remaining pawns declinations of aequidillas. Let it be enough therefore here only three pawns Y5 nr. and I went down on the clay steps to investigate the nation, as a son of the rest you have a rum declension. We are here to the practice of clarifying the three Suns in the beginning V n conflicting declensions mouse, from which the reader can easily read the rest he will see the reason for the rescue. Analogy I eAd hiVefliganda declination of the Sun. For decline- let it be, that the end all to V Cacj r rn tion of the Sun and the end of the greatest declension at the beginning of nat. O gr. min. You will not be worked through the steps of the clay o the third diphthaiity of clay from the following of the fignos, by placing the femper in the first place of the fi- tore in the whether the whole: the greatest decline
Table I. Declination of the parts of the Ecliptic from Signs.
Signs Problem Problem V. Artis mdgtue Book III. (Protheor Part II. parallel, whose semi-circular arch who is known from the following table. And these three things are set forth thus in every work tion, so that in the first place the end becomes whole, fruitful the tangent of the elevation of the pole, the third tangent of parallel inclination. So say As the end of the whole to the tangent of elevation whose poles, yes A table of semidiurnommcujujlib arcs parallel to the Sun. np Ria in this problem known efle de- bent, the whole end, tangential elevation the pole in a given place, and the tangent of declination fi i gr. min. principal V tangent gr. o min. principal n-to another, and the end will appear in three signs. gr. minutes principal ss by which a half-day arc or a quarter of a fu- he passes away, or is shunned by the quadrant; for it is the same reason is now parallel to Auftrali. Arch therefore by the end found, fi is added to which drantent, the semi-diurnal bow will be blown Borealis; but fi is taken from the quadrant, give bit the rest of the half-day arc problem Let it be sufficient, therefore, to make only the differences in three quarters, and a half-day arc of one to ascend the quadrant of the ecliptic: for these with different differences in the other quadrants They are water buses. And for this reason we
the proper tables of whole arcs norum, to the elevations of the pole fupputavi- mouse However, given the daily arc, however many ho rare, its decline at a given height Thus you will find the health of the pole. As the end of the whole at the end of the difference: between the arch of the thigh given a day, and a quarter with water rice, thus touching the completion of the height pole to another Tabida On the calculation of the Sciatherlc Tables. Table II, of the female arcs in degrees to the elevations of the pole of the whole of Europe, qua the quantity of days fJa noBmm is known with no penalty business, The sun in the beginnings of the conflicting signs. Attitude Poles
problem oq Artis magna Liber Vrotheoria Pars 1L Problem VI. Tables of sizes east west, so is the sun, when it is most fixed, everywhere the localities Three are again mentioned here: in the first place the end is all, the end is fruitful of the height of the pole, in the third place the tangent of the decline Hellas of any nation. Since then I the eastern slope becomes nothing else but an arch of the horizon between the equinoctial, paral the lelum, which Hella obtains at any time, in received, which he reports in the analemma li- neaP3, the mustache of the in which trian two corners with one side are given to the throat, ex with whom the camp is known. Angle AP3 known as efl from the elevation of the pole; side ex at the end of the declination Hellas, and the angle a, reftus efl. So say As the end of the whole to the fertile height pole, thus the tangent of the declination of the parallel Hei- If one is, to another, the end is produced, with which they will re-store the width of the table of fines Dines rose and set. With this art we We made a hot plate. Analogy II. Amplitude East, West. Ut fi-fad fecan- (so tangent de- Clip's' z8 aalprodibtmt{l-(l5. Oamplitudi- nus to- tem altitu- clinationis O zo. lOr liud pnus quormnd quar you (of the poles. (infinnis J degrees are (j2- Vfus Table Enter the table with the given height not to be poled from the side, and with the clay in the front. For the area common to both will give am east and west extent Thus, here in Rome, the pole of elevation du, the sun in degrees east, or occuvia to have degrees, you will find in minutes. But with these, with no they have difficulty, omitting, to other things let's go Table Of the calculus of the records of Sciatbericamm Tabu HL of amplitude east and west at the beginnings of the twelve Signs of the Zodiac to elevations of Doli-
Jjf Artis ma? n Uber III. Protheor Part II. Problem VII. T ferenti afcenjiional fupputation. p X the shape of the anal mat is clearly arched days to leave the north a quarter of the circle, as much as the same arc it does The question then is in the analemma of the arch, parallel, a fed this in parts, such as it is made from V, all fine, and is called the bow of the inquis rendering a difference of alcenfional; I will reflame from V, so efl to the semidiameter of the waterer, as the arc of the Sun's declination to the tangent the same declination. Let it be, therefore, that the whole ends at the tangent the elevation of the pole, thus the tangent of the declination Sunday to something else. If, therefore, I decline the tangent the nation of the Sun in the tangential elevation you have led to the end of the product then divide; he will indicate how often the end, where the rum arc in the Table of Pockets. But the table of differences from others supposed to be palimpsest at Aftronomicus Au- Thores, Clavium, .Maginus, Orontius, and you will find innumerable others. Problem of the altitudes of the Sun, and their surroundings to store the horizontal ones. Um in Art nofra Magnetic fuse de method of these tables to all treat the type of hours to be counted river ideofufuvacaneum fume here to repeat the same. I will therefore make the L effort we let go; but in this place only tables I have led to explain what is believed there mouse Ufus Tahuk sAlmucantaro afimuihita.
T N front panel; have different hours A mica, on the side elevations of the pole, with which Three clay pots are relpondentin him on the other side If you want a fub elevation of the pole Azimuth, Almucanta- a. m. qusrito given the elevation grad. on the side; and the area of their descendants common knowledge3. or will give for grad. min Almucantarum, grad. min. Azimuth E t fic about yesterday. Note hereLeftor, through Almucantaras nothing to understand us differently, the circles of the snow are high did the sun break the horizon; painted by Azimuth is nothing else, the vertical snow circles les, with which the place of the Sun in any quarter cceli at any given moment of time nature Tabula Sciathe rica, 1QJ Table IV, Ahmcantato-dymuthica at elevations of the leaf fupputata} fhe height displaying the horizontal dines of Soliij around
Signs horse from me, that med night.
Azym. This is the great book of art. Protheor Part II. dung Tabu IV. Almucantaro
Azym. Tabula Sciatberica a f m %e[dmm Tabu IV. Almucantaro aymutbica.
l-lord from me dd. 8c coach
You are five Azym.
Azym. Artis magna Book III Vrotbeorix Part II Ejiduum Tabuk IV Almucantaro Ve Calculus of Sciatherlc Tables.
Table IV. AlmUcantaro aymutMca. Time: a me- laugh Sc med night
d5 Y Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alni Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym. Alm. Azym.
mdge Book Protheorius Table IV. eAlmucantaro-aymuthica.
G M G M, G M G M G M G M G M
Moved to the table. "VT E Leftor mmir&yvw in the execution of the work lack of brain equipment there; here is also a map of Almucantaro-azy- I will speak for Horistalites and Babylonians, to i o. the elevations of the poles, that is, to all Yes to join the orderly breadth of the issue I married; From which every file I was ready to pick out the ones suitable for the horizon will be able Table Here enter i abulatn for wood TabttU Sciatheric#. Table V. sAlmucantaro ymuthica for Italian and Habjlonic hours, Horse Italian
P M P M P M P M P M P M. P M P MP M
lbs Explanation of Uter arum, characteristics. By this tree t we mark the South; by Occafum, or the Rising of the Sun: by a plague South; by b Boreal. Dd ltera Here enter Table for wood v}o. Here enter Table for tree
Arti magna Book III. Apparatus Part II. eA Itera parsTabuU V. jilmucantaro aymuthiae pro horis Italicis}
M P M P M P M p M P M Alm.
Explanation of letters and notaries.
By this tree t we mark the South; by Occafum, or the Rising of the Sun: by a plague South; by b Boreal. Here enter Table for tree Note that the table is proceeding. T T JEc Table only for tropical inho- by any clock, and by any plane Table Sciatherlca leftist circles. Why is it so? whatever the elevation of the Sun you will calculate. Let the height of the Sun be known as E, the plane of the horizon such AB, Itylus HI, shadow OH, rede; He infuriated them to write. For the com duties of interdiction, with those tongues in Italian and Babylonian hours they do the same Almucamar, than Azymutha. With truth to the hourly lines to be carried three ii- gnisssat, .Sr-jo work is done, as by triapunda The hourly arc of the lead was found in the didis clays gunt, together with to use us in the process teeth Table IV we did In this case, however Table V, or we supported, no which cannot be brought to Italian hours it becomes useful; fed that Almucantaro, Azy mutha, in which they boil in aftronomic hours proceeding Table, Sun in Y, or confti- safely, even here they may boil the same as the hours Italian Babylon so Aimucantara, Azymu- then, wherefore iz. aftronomic refpon dentSolein Y, velakconftituto, congruent Italian hours and Babylonian hours, and fic de the rest So if you would like to use this Table; from pick numbers Almucantaro azymuthi- as well as the elevation of the pole of your region hours on the front correpponding, for where indeed to enter the Table from that part in which the elevations of the pole tur: for pundis indeed w}o from the opposite side To enter the table, for Y indeed, at ex picking the numbers of the advancing TabuloY, and answering, as it is done, and you will gain with your wishes Problem Calculate the table of shadows. T T Alde necefalaria is this Board to in- captures of pawns and other cce- verfaFG. It is released from E reda in S nor bad things Since therefore the triangle IES lu cidu, the shadowy triangle GIH the corners shall be equal to the corners, and the sides shall be wide proportional to taxes. Let it be, therefore, that it works Having known the inclination of the Sun, ES, to IS, the end three times Sintu. the completion of the same height of the Sun, so gnomon IH, in or a. or any others rich parts to GH, I will return the shade to the fada the operation of the brand. But if you sweep the shadows trust, let it be so, the end of the completion given the height of the Sun, to the right end or ES of the same height: thus FI ftylus in a. or any part of the division to FG, cast a shadow by the operation known as: thus given at any altitude of the Sun, the shadow I will bring you back, and you will invigorate. T table Art magm Book III. apparatus Part II
Table IF Of shadows as nets, as they are, given fiylo in diVtJio parts. Degree It raises
Degree He goes away.
s6 a TabuU Sciatheriae those? HefiduumTabulaiy. Of the shadows both straight and verve, given Jlylo diyijio in parts. Degree He said
r-t 2iB aArtisMagm book Apparatus Part [iduum Tabuia jPl. The shadows are so reUaram, as yer. [arum datojlylo divided into parts. Degree It is high (o)
Shadows Shadows Shadows Shadows Shadows Shadows Shadows Shadow: Shadows Shadow: Min iw P M P M
Sybota in abfdam proceeding-. TT at the height of the Sun, its grace is sought he had those on the side that rantur, and will give a common area to both shadow in parts such as Itylus has ix. For example: if you would like to do that par let the height of the sun cast its shadow rixontem50 elevated steps; ask them there you will hit within the majority of numbers
degrees min. will give the common ground horizontal shadow par. min. If it is degree min. was lifted up take on the side min. in the top degree and the common area will give grad. min. horizontal shadow. If true vertical shadow size things; take the complement of the height of the Sun found, minutes on the right side of the Tables put vertical shadows; common area on both sides it will give a certain shadow. Exam for example: the altitude of the Sun is given o. degree min. And he will trust the shadow of a quill verfam, five vertical: look for the complement as well as height39 grad. min. Indeed, the degrees of desire are to be censured within it the column was kicked, and the veroxo was minute they are sought in the brick of the vertices of the shadows lium, and the common area will be given. share min. vertical shadow obtained. No You will work on the rest. Problem A table of the parallels of the sun's clocks in jcribendormn fupputart p Rimd, let the altitudes of the Sun be taken from the preceding tables for the beginnings of wood rum to clay hours from noon fte fupputatae Then let it be done: given heights to the end of completion the same, so Itylus in x. rich parts to something else; and the coming of the shadows for hours given in a horizontal plane ram, but in the vertical vervara long qutefka tudines, which you reduce to tables, as is done zArtis Magna liber III. Prepared Part Part i. Table VII. Prohjperbolis plano horizontal recording.
or Jr Taug. Tang Tang Tang Tang Tang, Tang
(ejiduum partis l, Table for bjperholis ss, v}o plano of the fountain
Parsz Artis magna Liber eAp ready Part Part Table V1L for the hyperbase xr SI, s plane horizontal infriction.
Tang nk" Tang Tang. Tang Tang Tang Tang JV3 P n Q. id
that's it T abuU Sciathe rica. z (Tdeficluutn partis z. Table prohjperbolis plane horizontal recording.
Hooray Hor A. M. J
Tang Tang Tang Tan Tang Tang Tang Tang, CfQ m'P ir Q H
n IF x3 zArik Magna Uber HI. sApparatus Pa s Part T abuhe for hjperbolis V np, plano horizontal injcnbendts.
Tang- Tang Tang Tang Tang. Tang Tang Tang
np T alu Sciatherket. %e[iiduum part TabuU V1! . for hyperbolas V ttp, x nt horizontal infriction. Hor
Tang Tang Tang Tang Tang Tang. Tang Tang
f f Art magm Book III. zApparatus Part II Problem XI. A table for incribing Aymuthis, ftu To store verticals in a vertical plane. C Tangents of Angles of Degrees of such parts as Itylus elt io or you will be reduced to tables, ha you will drink some midday from two hours, from afcenAo oblique the half-day bow is broken, it is broken; runt the remaining hours after noon, when the beginning of that Lamb, whose afcenAo is oblique it is taken up, it is born, as in the examples of food it is clear I didn't post any special pictures here. a mouse, with any one of them I own them very easily Calculate the given rule on Mars re polftt Problem Calculus Tables for Horofcopies Si of the ancestors The tables reveal the height of the beams
you don't have anything else but the tables ftending a quota every hour of the Lamb The horizon of the zodiac will be raised, or let the same one be depressed, either in the middle or in fact it is made of Cceii. Instead of this you go there is information in Gnomonics, tables You will calculate with this skill. Queen I SOlc in the 4th cardinal points of Taits-jo (exiftente), inquire about the quota an hour before or the beginning of the afternoon Orian of the lambs there is this industria. It is a question of the grace of the Sun when the meridian arc is hours, quota hour principle 25RomrC fupra ho the horizon emerges. Ask the afcenfio nem the slanting of the Sun in its position, that is, ar when between the beginning T and the first gra while which you will discover from the tables degree min. holce degrees in hours re- Iolvito, and you find the hour min. which fub trade cx hours This is the midday arc CV leave hor. min. in front of me day At this hour the beginning of the 2nd above the horizon, the Sun in T which refponddt hours &2S min. poft me diam node Again, the Sun at the beginning of 2q He complains heartily of the hour at which it begins u comp! itM fUpra the horizon emerges; calculate An oblique arc between the beginning intercepted, which is gr- min. these give in horasconverft horas min. from which A arcumfemidiurnum hours min. fubtrahas, will be left at o'clock. min. It was a very early afternoon, when I entered then the horizon emerges; and this rule in all the rest of thy Lamb it must be offered twice. For if the afcenAo is oblique, while the half-day arc is smaller, in hours redada, from the bow of the midday, left they are burning the storehouse that is gone and gone to the poor day, while that Lamb, whose side af it is fumigated by the cenfio, it rises. If indeed the bow Rule II On calculating tables of Jigno's mediations rum, and the decline thereof. This Rule prescribes nothing else, nift to find the punda of the Ecliptic in a circle the meridian of the exiftent, this is the mediations Ccelius, when the beginnings of the Lambs arise, and the declensions of the same filth. You shall have the Utdida punda in the following manner: Ex afcenftone oblique beginning of each Lamb a quarter of the circle is taken away, I first add it in in a dark circle to the apheenAon obliquely, Afubtradio Acri will not hesitate, for the number the rest will be afcenAo reda where the ecliptic; .which is then repeated at noon, and culminating in the median Ave, say the aphtrologists. From the table therefore while it will innote the ecliptic, whose opposite Atufn pundus in the same meridian below the horizon, which is the bottom of Heaven, Ave they call the throat, the feu of the middle knot, the cuff aftropom A true rule paradigm let us declare Paradigm. IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO DO THAT the chptica is half, while the tip rises, take ob liquid afcenfionem principifny, grad see lictxqi. reduce from which A is deduced from which drans, they will remain grad. yi. m. for af een Aone reda, to whom in the table of afcenfions re refpondentgra of gifts Any- Atum, the median point of the ecliptic; whose op- desired pound below the horizontal grad.
Again, the slope is degrees! min. to which A is added the whole circle funtgrad min. by whom they were taken down90 leave grad. min. I will return to whom I will return in the table of afcenfions refpondent degree min. X obtained the median ecliptic pound at the beginning feet emerging horizon. Hac industria com you will think that the table of mediations is elevated your competent one, the model of which see in Probe Lib. V. rule Tabu SciathertcA iij Rule III Pimcium Ecliptic in the hour circle to find out, to build a plan for it. With the oblique beginning of each bet fixed, becomes afcenfio the straight line of that point The ecliptic, which is at the same time in the circle the hour of the sunset in the afternoon: Yes, from that Bula afcenfion redarum tables said rum pounds on the line ries The sun, for example, at the beginning of con- degree min. it will be the same afcenfio reda pun iti Eclipticg then in the circle the hour
Ilititus profus the same, and of the same number of degrees; to which afcenfion in the table of afcenfions is correct rum correfpondent grad min. it (ha bita femper by reason of the proportional part, fi the number would not be found in the tables. The opposite point of which will be the 8th degree. min. I will not proceed with feces in others while PRE-GYMNASTICS II GEOMETRIC. On the projecting of conic fiedions in the plane of Sciatherica. . Deductions of the parables. Primacy I Parabolamjhyperbolam, "Or to outline an ellipse geometrically. I was satisfied with Orfim for of these e IT cone redangulusA BC, in which he prepares the feast bola, DE; hyperbola ellipses DA Du- primary side DFbafi parallel, de hence the XP axis is divided in some watery parts, and by hafce du the parallels FD, HI, KL, MM are sung: and half-order for the extreme line of the curve is two bit parabola quafita. from purtdiS, where they make an axis, they are led jfemicircuii FKD, HPI, KIL, MIN, ACB; the diameters of which are parallel to each other. In whose clays, femiordinates thus deter you will threaten: for the parable of DE, see where you give you give parallels DE, let him be a parable from those places the leaders in the circumferences normal clays EC, PO, KO, BI, BG: For the hyperbola DX, boil DN, the line: for ellipsis DA: where before they kill her rellelaSi from them in the round two normal ferentiations cta will give femiordina you When these things are done, return Let it be a parable He wants to write it down I have mercy on the faith, I love you water with the same letters DE fixed, which in equal parts water will divide the les, into as many ZP, she was rich. Then coordinates FG, HI, KL, MN, EN. normal, see although the lines from the commun no interference of faith, parelle- larum in the bow of the heart answering questions transfer in the D E axis So, be the femiordinate from the common inter the right weight of the weight of faith, hyperbole peria Great Art Book III. Vrotbcork Part I pheria dudto feorfim in the right, line ae such as DX fefttpni, in as many parts they are transferred to the divine on both sides, and the extreme curve is joined, they will give hy- I wonder what happened. If, finally, femiordinataein fetioneDA ellipses, in DA a smooth polished line, into as many parts as the DA axis it is a fus, you can transfer the difference on both sides, give are the extremes of the femioordinate curves jundta ellipfim qua: be so, of all of them Demonstrations depend on prof. Find the center of reflection. In the middle of the parabola DK, of the DE will be the center of reflection. In the hyperbola side AC is prolonged together with the leading DX determinant in y pundto feftion YD, transfverfum side, five outer diameter; by which to divide faria in W, from here to CY parallel du cetur WZ, qua: tranilata in fection hy the right hand, from W to O, will also give pun- while the center of reflection is quixfit. WD ye- ro will give the hemiordinate of the center in the figure fe- ready to use is demonstrated in propof. In the same ratio as the eilipsis, juxta the porifma prof. You will have the said centers, be the middle the state of the greater diameter of the cross from ul with thin borders, and of smaller diameter on either side that in the major axis AD, namely exT, in V, S; for these two will give pundfa centers of reflection on the major axis DA, vi Delight V, which is done. The various interpretations of the parables. Pras; matia I I T)ata diftantia d from the top to the center, five side reffii to cast down the parable. C It extends from the top to the center line data Z: more than quadrupled as the diameter AB, culus, eritq semidiameter according to prop. divided by the central axis into two parts. each of which is again divided into four pairs tes, yel as many other equals you divide; we here we divide it into two parts. This at the end of B, the extremity of the diameter AB nor BF is raised to evils. .Then from the molds pundtis x interval xA xA. A. bows were carried, who where they will do normal BE, carefully noted, for the normal fpatias BG, BH, BI, BK, BL, , in the line QX parallel to the diameter AB I will divide it into two parts, and into as many parts. into how many BC we divide the semidiameter, vi Delicet eight parts fed, on both sides transf- you will wear this garment, as if I were making a mold out of points
normal to the DX axis femiordinate, between fe parallel fint; for he was led through the extremes of these circles he will give a parable; the top of which the reflection of St. Pragmatics 'Given a straight side to convey a parable. CIt latus refbum parabola: juxta propof KE: it is smoked in the plane of any li no matter where they are smoking any number of parts between fe tequals (quo but these parts were smaller, so much so the parable turns out to be more exaggerated. But in this odd points are noted, so that EA becomes AB, CH. so that, as has been said in the proceeding, they lead there are normal Then it is reifted between the sides KE, and retftam EA, found the mean proportion national will give half-ordinate AD on both sides. Then from B on both sides BF is cut off, du pla ipfius AD; from C, on both sides CG, three pla of the same AD, from H, ipfa HI, qua drupal Bring thee [ornear fectlons ktione.
drupal, and let nature be fruitful henceforth I will hit the problem of numbers. For by ex the trema of these femiordinate points de- a curved line will give a parabola faith: you will find all that has been demonstrated in prof. fuse demonstrates polloniuslib. f. propof. i Pragmatics' V. To bring Tarabola to another account. First, a right cone ABC is formed, in which fe- The parable is written in any way the tooth becomes DP, produced in S Second, divide DP, the axis of the parabola in each equal parts, use side his DA, lead them through the punfta of the divisions there are parallels to the beak AB, of which kind They are led by equal reason points of division in the axis DP, fixed nor indeterminate hidden evils: the magnitude nis, of what kind are WV, YX, Thirdly, the interval IM, or IR, circle lo dudto from the center I, the middle point of the line MR, to her by E, common slaughter nis pundtum DP, MR, normal is drawn HK, which will be applied regularly WV Fourth, Then circ infinite throat punch Ctis, axisD P, exC, top co nor to pro- a long time ago prepare a gem balls DP bow two they sing whom you will fasten with similar letters. Fifth, the intercepts between C and points of division FFG, DA side produce a line from the finished points PDS, let the bow be drawn, as they will make the order tim applied to the points, through which: para bola to be led Video demonstration right in propof. a. Apollon. lib. prof. Pragmatism V. Given the center of reflection, and any lower dinata, to convey the parable in a different way. IDRimo, Let the data be femioordinate CD, cen- trum reflection B, with the help of these, ver the tex of the parabola, and the point of the parabola they are given as it is done. They are joined together Cta CB, reCta, and they are juxta propof. all the lines from B, the center to the circumference pa rabolae, hence to the femiordinate norm path dudte equal to the line B C. DuCto ritur arc DR, be BR, tequals BD, RC, divide it into E, it will give ER, or CE. exB the center transferred to A, the vertex of the parabola; You will find the other points in this way; line E B it is divided into any number of parts, which: fmt LMNOPQ Second, then the distance between C, and L, CM, CN, CO, CP, intercepted by a single circle with one foot in B, with the other a hidden bow they are banned Again the circle was intercepted BL, in arcuF, with one foot pofito, and hither in so far as it moves, until the other thigh arranged CD, touched: for from this pum Cto H, another arch will be drawn, which where before he has done the thing, there will be a point through which the circuit of the parabola will run. Go further pto fpacio BM, circinus in arc BI, in tan then let it be advanced, until the other leg ba it shall touch the end of CD, and you shall have in the arc BI, fruitful point of the parable. Thirdly the point T, so you will find; interception fpa tio BN, circle in the arc BT, di he runs until he touches CD with his other leg, And in the bow BT, the resting leg will give the third pun&um carfitum; not the feces of the rest to work with punfti invetvigandas, as in ex the emplo is clear. We have given a demonstration prof. Pragmatism V I Given a yertice parabola, and reflection at the center nis, the easiest parable of all to convey the method. ORIMO Let A be the vertex, C the center of the para- balls; to which from previous practice gnatis, a parable of any size
you will bear this garment. AC is divided in any number of equal parts, for example And if you trust more than in others, other parts of the aquatic parts iz. spring bi grace to facilitate division, so that AC, it becomes as large as CB; and by the punishment of the gods hidden parallel lines are drawn to AB, the which refer ordinarily applied according to Great Art Book III. Trotheor Part II. Second, by polishing the foot of the circle in C een-1 miordinada M. , the bow will be made L, which tro, on the other foot, between the spaces CA, in fe-1 will draw lines CA, di lively and productive CL, inD, itautLD, will reach the whole of AB, axi patabolse; la$o is divided by L D, in ix. parts such as ix. part bus axis AB, that are fixed by numbers
on the other hand, a line of punctuate divisions LD, hidden bows are drawn, from L and to M the thief; from L to D smoke; for where these arcs are femiordinates cant, he will be led through that punished parable which were cut from the axis AB, into the cities of the femur ordered translated, they will give punishments, per Pragmatism VII. To write a parable mechanically with the help of wire. A planiflima table XY should be prepared, to which to right angles is applied the norm DE, so that the standard about E, the side tables EG, ra- which on the opposite side will be led to the other pa-j promoted by the axis of the parabola the scraper part And to these is my femper archidiftet of all. So I'm going to register indeed, in my opinion, I will prepare a very easy rule to be described geometrically. with the help of the parable of this intrument; attach then in the center L, the thinnest thread: then greedy norm fuper L B, wire graph D, in is drawn around, which in E, root rules then it is fixed, so that the length of the wire is beat LB, double For when next to the pro- pof all lines from the center to the circumference parables together with them; which fall from here into the femiordinate, es are, describe the graph D, motion nor- ns neceftarib the parable FBG, as in pro- of. io. we demonstrated vjuot AB, that is to say, the fence is divided; per pundta NMLKI hidden parallels Given the center of gravity from Vertice femior- chnatafianc the same geometrically to write about Orimo, in the line of am A Q, becomes diftant center from the vertex AB ordinate BC, diftantia; a the top becomes double, with which given the third party for portional, which will be BQ When this is done, divide AB in any number of parts les, viz. Then fpatia IQ, AQdrifariamdividan- tur: for be of these means pundhsve- you drew semicircles of clay centers, fe- those BC will fit in the points which termi- nabuntfemiordinates Translated therefore AB, distance of the center from the top m fepa- the straight line AB, divided into equal parts, gantur: for fi transfer fpacia bd, be BF, BG, BH, femiordinate BC, from punblis NMLKIB Of (the dejcriptio of all the feffions. NMLKIB, line: AB in parallel lines DN, ME, LE, KG, IP, will pass through the extremes of their parabola qua- stick But this is so easy, that even let the leaves become unnoticeable in shape. Pragmatism VIII. Given the ax of the parable, and the given ha fi, I will prepare lam d ejeribere The axis AD is divided into bet water parts, here him in n. di- we live and they were led by the division of Punda whether to baflm BC, hidden parallels Secondly. Then give it to everyone on the plane line W X: determine on this line part, another, however, by which WI is made, from W the norm lem WY, and join punda Yi, reda Yi, and the squares of WY and WI are equal square YI, par Euclid. this YI from W the weight in z transfer the point; then Yz. from Win from Wpundo Y3. in W4. &fic ufquead z. to advance near I would hit the content of the numbers on the AD axis. Third, draw from W, arc XZ, inter taken fpacium BD, vei BC, in a little arc before you transfer the lead, and handle the line WZ, from the clay punds of the line WX, arc they are led, whose fubtenia is femiordinate they will align on the AD axis. Thus the space between will give the semi-ordinate H; between z. z. EI, &fic, you will find through
the ends of which will give a curved line a parable Quacmniademon
in propof. you will find A parable therefore we wrote down what was to be trusted. Moreover given the difference of the center from the top, han c You will convey the parable in a different way. AC is divided data difting into a square number, ver bi grace that is, in equal parts, from which parallel to AB, femiordinum so quickly to the difference AC, double du they sing; and in as many parts, quickly divide, but not equal, as in AC, you see, fed is proportional to the square cashacinduftria First divide AB into three equal parts, AE, to one third red is given equal to AD, on the protracted axis, conjunct say on the line of points DE, transfer this intercepted from A, at the point z. and again Dz. exA, inq. &ficconfequenterufquep. to burn in the previous one too, they will be given that in femiorainata AB, putida, to which normal dudas, where the parallels of the filimi nume they made wood, through that parable make a wound The demonstration depends on prof. Several parables are referred to see the accounts of the gifts in Catoptric Magic. f. II. Defcrlptmes of hypcrbols. Over the line, although I return, the word gra- tia BD, is raised to B, the normal BG. Then let him take the half-diameter as he pleases BA, from the middle of which is C. hemicirculus to be drawn At the beginning of the A, the rest of the line AD, in or any other parts you divide; for by this punda of divisions from C, the bows are drawn, the intersection of which even with the line BG, carefully noted. Seorftm on paper line HI is drawn, a what kind of BG will it be? axis hyperbola, which also m aquatic You divide the parts next to each other dividing the line AD f, t hh from which clay pa- From the rallellas to the beak or cultured leaders: for in have Artis magne Book III, Vrotheork Part understand these transfer fspaces in BG, so that BE gives MN, and BF, a biordinate OP, and the fic of the rest, will pass through the extremes pundta hemiordinates hyperbola. Prag-raatia X Given the centers of the opposite hyperbolas. and at the top, define the hyperbola. O It A is the vertex of the hyperbola, B is the center of the re- of flexion, C center oppofltse hyper bolae by Poryphmas i. prof. i. When you there it is demonstrated that fi to BA,
become'1' CA, such parts are added, and such di- ftants from C, B, are drawn into the line, pun- dla conjunction in the circle of the hyperbola fall: let ABinF, &AF be produced, the first line, in quotlib and parts, of the word gra tia oto is divided: in equal proportion to the transfhma at the points through which the curve drawn will give hy perbola Pragmatism XII. A hyperbola with the help of a wire. C It is the center of reflection A, opposite center B; C vertex: these given thread hy the perbola will be led by this clothing. In. are attached to both centers A, with the needles, with which tie the thread tur: another graph should then be considered, which below it should have a hole for the intaracus, as it appears in D: through this hole both fi the light is drawn. the line AS, the water line AF, I inolo the parts of the division given: the hyperbola with the help of these points so you write. I want to go again with the leg of the circus in C, you intercept the other punished i. verfus B quickly and are led on both sides by a hidden arch DD; Pofito again circle the leg in the center B, focipunto, with the second from the first punished let the line AS be drawn, and the arc verfus D on both sides: for where the former with the former in- if they are frightened, they will be punished for hyperbole. After that, I put the leg of the circus in C, on the other side punished by z. line AF, arc on both sides du they are sung as before, and then with the desire of the circus foot from in B, on the other from z. punito AS: arc urrin- that they should be led; for where these former bows were made let them be careful, they will be punished hyperbole. Nonfecus in others, he was punished by inflaming hyperbole you proceed, alternate circles in pppofita cen through desire; and from the opposite rum punitus in the defcription of the bows proce give, until all things are found punished, by this for the double curve will give the hyperbola qua- a thread, of which Porif will give a demonstration ma i prof. i. Pragmatism XI. Given the center of reflection, and the vertex of the hyper- to break down the hall SItvertdx A, center of reflection C, axis AB, in z. water parts, or something at other times the rich, from whom you punish the rich
parallels are drawn, in which the femiordinates they will be determined. Semi-organized centers CM, of any size be produced in D, in any case. Then from L beginning (which will differ only from C, quan then C from the top A)LD, line in twelve parts aquatic parts divide the axis AB by hpc itadivifionexC the center of the arc from L, each to M hither and thither adD below the line J will make parallel Then move the graph D from C to the left which, in such a way that at the movement of the femur the two are loosened fifa, and with this movement the hyperbola thread All this depends on Porifmata i. prof. i.
Registers EUipfeon. Pragmatism XIII. Given the greater diameter, and the lesser hemidia- defcrihere meter eUipfin. G It is the major diameter of AB, the semidiameter of nor CE, with which data will be found point force Of (the deportment of orneum feUions.
force punfta in the circle of Eilippeos; since imporfm. professor it is demonstrated where the former have done, they will soon be there in P punta eilipheos Do not proceed with the stool at other points of invetigating the eiliphes. Where no so that the more punished in AE, the more affected they will be gnawed on, so much so that the evasion of the ellipse is done perfectly ctior: .qiie all things are demonstrated in porifm. professor Coronary: It is clear, by what reason the two wires of Flli- pfis was carried. Sintiteruminellipfi given the diameter of Eilippeos AB, major, &CX the smaller, they will be next to the preceding hearth, five points from the comparison of the FG. If so tie the two threads of the foci F, G, in such a way that ifta in C, they are joined together, he writes within the threads of the gra pium circumaCtum ellipfin ACBX, fide- ratam, feddehis infectenibus fufuius. Pragmatism XIV. Given the vertex A, center C, and femiorcline to drop the center of the CM9 Ellipfin. U&o from C center through A arc in L, erit LC sharks CA: htec C A divided line quickly; of from here the same division in CB is continued each to and be drawn to AB normals, between fe parallels. It will be extended again the arranged CM becomes D, and so on, aqua CB. beginning with L, is divided the greater hemidiameter A"B, the centers of the pfis afiTignare, fi from common interfeftion circumference of the punCfo, and the diameter of the lesser thigh transfer the greater diameter AE, or EB on both sides in a larger diameter, apparently in FG; in equal ratio with from the centers in which draw a line around a point of two ae such as fint with a greater diameter, thus ellipfin fa we will carry the cile. Let them be in the diameter AB these FG centers, which, as we have said, will be considered fi expunCto C in the greater diameter of the thigh the diameter of AE, or EB. AbF but they must be smitten with any number of puns CfaHIKLM. Then in the interval AH, exF, G, two arcs are drawn from the centers on either side hidden: then intercapedineBH, from the same F, G, the centers were carried on either side that two others are close, which where before they will make things, that is, in N, from there Ellipfis ducenda cft. Deipde between ceptb fpacio AI, exF, G, cen let there be three arches on each side; then fspace BI intercepted from G, F, let other arches be made on either side, which where let them take precedence, that is to say, in O there will be ellipses points. between I then took fpacio AK, from cen three FG, on either side are led the heat; then after intercepting fspace BK, ex the centers of FG, let other arcs be made, which LD, in as many parts, and in the same order, by which we divide AB: then from C by the fingle Note Leftct the numbers li nea: AB, er roe fculpro smile first fpaeium transfllifTe; in the first place there fpacio ab A, mi. ium lead the points are drawn by the lines, by the hidden arc of fire, qni where parallels correponding fecue rint, will be carried through those points of the ellipse. De- The presentation depends on the porifm. prop. o. Pragmatism XV. Given the greater diameter of the Ellipse ATS, the smallest nori (jDjEl dpfin to cast down. yj Draw the line AB, &CD in the middle points be joined at right angles, this having finished, let the feorfim fiatFE icqualisDC, mino ri in diameter, from the middle of which as a center du FFIE semicircular cat. Then it is divided GE, in any number of parts, that is Divide the half-diameter into the same number jore, through whose parallel points you lead Gg hide Art magm Book III. Trotbeor Part
flbit ellipfis; italK. , finus will give femiordina- tas femiordinates RS, ND, fe- moderated TV See the demonstration inappropriate i. Pragmatism XVI. i ElHpfin to bear with the help of his son. O It given the larger diameter CF, the smaller HE, in two centers complain of the greater: what will happen fi transfer the greater hemidiameter from on either side EH, in diameter majo- remFC, as we said above: AB will come forth, the centers of which two needles are fixed and two strings are tied to it; it is assumed and in E, a graph, to which two threads are thus tied, they are no longer willing to be relaxed. If therefore put the thread around these threads tur, by this movement Ellipsis's body will be carried away. But all these things are clear from the figure of Jesus: De-
hidden And whence the line of division? GE, led normal, five fine come back in NUE periphery, and fintque IK, LM, ND, GH, which he transfers from where the major axis diameters correponding into parallels; through for the extreme determination of punda trans- fl1 In
be brought into F, and the minor CE, or ED, from G into H. If, then, the rule is thus applied to the half- trisTut H, femper majorerum femidiame trum, touch F minor, they will give punda in G marked, punda the circumference of the ellipse. Pragmatism XVIII. The deep diameters of Ellipptn are different geometrically to bring g Int the diameter of the ellipse but his demonstration from porifm. prof. to be requested Pragmatism XVII. Bring the rule of Ellipfin fimplici re, given before both diameters. C It is the greater diameter AB, the smaller CD, go in the middle to the corners the gift of conjugation: take the rule wooden, or parchment parchment I will collide, what? becomes FG, in which ad the extremity of it is G, de the greater half-diameter is terminated AE, or EB, I quickly expunge G, dida hemidiameter majortrans three major EF, minor PR, about both two circles were carried from the center M, then From a T, the larger circle is divided into equal parts as many as any tro M, with the hidden lines of the 1L H culus minor: fint parts of the greater circle finally join the fin- gluttony two pounds equally a Whence F, E do you return from being removed? lines, then any two punda equally from the pundis P, of the lesser cir the butts, in a similar manner, are connected by lines of red; where the circle converges, there will be pundas, per which will be brought to the ellipse. See the figure where HH, KK: impundis V, V concur. But these things are very easy, so let us turn to other things. T)e projection of bodies on a plane.
PRE-GYMNASTICS III. On the projection of circular solids on a plane} as Sciathe they pojfnt to boil with their rich designs. CHAPTER I Of the true and certain method (geometrical, given to any We teach to draw water from the arc of the circle. P R F A T I O NTER those lines, which the ancient Mathematician are celebrated with rum The leader got the first place spin, Wonderful, pWW Pappus Admirabi lem gives Menelaus yMt'(xcw verily, five Quadratrices Dinoftratus, Nicomedes, Hippix: both to the circle It was designed as a square. We relied them cta, we will only deal with the quadratic here. Now this quadratrix is written by two imaginary movements, swift rays, lines against the beak of the parallel quadrant: which while the quadrant, and the parallel ray re and passing through, whatever of them the common god proceeds the line is drawn, which from the office n7? . is called. That is true in Pappus blamed the wind, because in the beginning asks For when his favorite linen com he becomes ready to define and it perishes before it is discovered nor by any means ex-Dinoftra principles be obtained; Pappus rightly rejects it, as inu tile, and which defcribinonpolfit To avenge him mam propof. lib Euclid. twelfth Cla- indeed, he explained it more clearly: because, nevertheless, it was from him sftu could not extricate us, what about We would have attempted this matter, the fubtilius Geo we share ftudiofis meters. Profit L If the dtcus of the quadrant continues to flow tur, in the same way the side of the quadrant, t a at the end of the point of division to go through the drvtfion the last division of the quadrant punbtum is very high
it is brought back to the correpondent register; he will restore this record from the doubtful records of the arc of the quadrant, the last divijicnepcrabta, etc such as It is the arc of the quadrant BD, and the bifurcation in C, as its side AB, in E, fJIum is made, and drawn from E through C, points straight ECF I say this on the DG record, fe- careDF, shark bow DC. Let the bifurcation E A be cut in H, and from H by riledium pundus arcus CD, drawn re give HIK, on the tangent DG, and it will be, as DC at DI, I was half to half; thus DF, ad DK (namely
to be fooled mouse out here Cyclone three Lanf- I went on I would end re- while, tan make a nation le between fe sharks, be peripheral end, or tangent fit'ad end, or tangent to the peripheral half, as peri- half of the periphery. For be in They eat equals according to the demonstration by Ptolemy c. fuyirvi aw-mi Scc. they went fed raaoifunt, therefore and sharks) For a portion of the scum is produced here) use an inadequate ratio. therefore by this hypothefin DF, adfcripta abfeifla what will be the shape of the arc DG, and half of it DK, half a century As the numbers first demon- Let the radius, five AB, be particles arc CD arc BCD, grad. of which fine plates are given, fine reduced, arch and it will be the end complement EN If so LN, the governor from LC, will be left to NQ Why will it be as EN adNC, so EM, five radius AD, to MF, cui fi Sccctur jam AE, arcus DC, grad. I will divide, and it will be AH, DI, grad. zz i. each fine reduced five in- hit completion Again AH, fubdudusi from is left, QI. It will therefore be yl as HQ, to QI, itaHP, to PK, to whom It is clear, then, that the red HIK should be made bifurcated DF, in K. Just like DF; to DK, so arc D, to the arc DI. So there will be DF sharks DC, DK, sharks DL Qjuod was demon- to break Gg i Con- sArtis Maena book IU. Frotheria Vars li. Confectionery I FTInc is clear at first. Given AH, CN, a fourth proportional is given, it would be a shark of the arc of the quarter of BC. As for AH to DC, so AB to BC; convert BL, arc of quadrant IBL; BO finally equal to BM, to the quadrant of the arc ABM, ad infinitum, proceeding If you were to give it to me neas BC, BN, BO, double and quadruple true, you will have semicircles or circles in it tegros The truth about this Intrument below fuzzier As the ratio of diameter to circumference
I tend, as AH, to CN equal to CD, by pr- yielding, thus AB, to the fourth proportional to the quarter of BC, equal: what is found, be from the common weight of faith of the lines RHN, &RAC, perB, inadfcriptamCM, a treacherous red is drawn. For SC, what will happen? the fourth proportional fit. Conference he joins the conference with a branch, he must be fed to bring out the approximately true proportion the ray of many ziphras in the figure of Prof. i. he would smoke a ray of smoke XT approx AB,
it will be in shape prof.
be first of all the sharks in each quadrant of the circle da defcriptalerut, because you return CB, GB, AI, which is the line AB, given: the fourth proportion the national affignata will give profit, that is to say BF For such as CB, BD, quarter sharks adBG, itaBF, or AI. adEB. So the circle where do you want BA lines, for example ETA, in punda CNO, lines BO, produda parallel you have led the way; will give BC, the line of the shark's arc BK of the quadrant EBK, line BN, the shark
adKP, the difference of the perimeter of the arc DK, radii DP; what is the difference with the last part the radius composes the perimeter of DK. So that AH, to DK, so AB, adaliud, whose square the plume will be the perimeter of the circle. as he rides. r DiameterJ. Peri- injected And by throwing the bodies [oils] on the plane.
Archimedes made a similar outfit in- kinsmen of Logifta Rudolph from Keulen, Chriftophorus Grienbergerus noftrf Socie the Eminent Mathematician of the nation, inve they spin the ratio of the diameter to the circumference ferentium, and the manner here prophesied much Archimedes becomes closer; nor Archimedes The goddess's method becomes so complicated that
while this is nofta, by the fact that in it the limits. Let them distrust too widely, for from the previous li the ratio of diameter to circumference is collected gently riam, as to from the other, as to as Lanfpergius also he noted: and between these means quickly, to not efl fate exact. And Apollonius of Pergamus noted Eutorius of Aicalon, Philo of Gadarene, and others which the surveyors saw. True to finally make the origin more evident let's see, it happens Profit II. If in a given circle the quarter from the last in la grind a quarter of a pound of fat in the tan a nation equal to the last arc, the limit of which from the center, another reda is made of the former, duca there normal from the point of fection in the beak which the clutla of the branches is abjcindet the hafim of the quadratrix. As the quadrant ABD, the square BAOD, in- written and the arc of the quadrant BD becomes continuously bisfed first in C, then in; he admits the same on the side AB, bisfedo first in F, poftea in G: then DI, equal, was described by the foregoing arc ED; and from G a parallel is drawn to AD, which will make the DN, in H; from the center A, other AI, which will make GH, in K. I say AL, which is cut off by KL, normal to AD, elbe the square beak of Dinoftratus. Since ALM, ADN, triangles similar to fint, eritper he proposes lib. Euclid. as AL, to LM, so AD, to DN But Eli DN, equal to the ar- cuiBCD NamutKL ray to ID, return equal to a quarter; itaLM, ideftradius AB, to DN; equal to the square of B CD Therefore, as AL, adLM, so AD, adDN, that is to BCD, the arc of a quadrant, and so on red AL, LM, and the quadrant ACD, are con always proportional. But and Dinoftratus as it is with Clavius, the beak, the ray, peri- the proportions of the four quadrants are continuous he showed them It will therefore be AL, abfcifla ab LKjbafis Quadratrix, which was a to break Confectionery rUm So the quadratic mustache becomes to ra- -'dium, so as to extend to the circumference of the quarter, and from the noftra demonftration ba a square beam is made to the radius, as the radius to the third proportional; the environment is clear quarter, and the third proportional ha bear the same ratio to the radius, and to by propof. book Euclid. environment of the quarter, and the third proportional between ie water efl e. Problem L to decrihere the square A redanguage was written out of the third pro portional data, and the radius of a quarter of a mile noris AD, and the sides AB, CD, in four ae what parts, where the arc of the quadrant BF, is divided Then through the sides punda pa the parallelograms FG, HI, KL are drawn: from the center A, the arc is divided by the quadripartum Pundas are led; for where the ray AB makes parallel BC: radius AM, parallel FG, AN, HI; AO, in short, KL, a line; through this punda curved line will give a square three For the radius AB, about the cent trum A, by at the same time, ae by what motion it is moved, by what BMNO, the side it is clear that this line is a certain line Gg heli Great Art Book III. f rotbeorhe Part II. propellers; but this is the difference between them the beach, which is arranged in a helix with ray sharks decrement, quadratrix was written Cloakroom llTInc is clear that fi from the center of the quadrant A, to any square pound in tris, for example inP, a line is drawn, to the beak AD, perpendicular PS: this normal PS which AP, restores in quandranteTD. As for AF, this is PS, to AB, so EM, to EB: fed AB, hoceft DC, juxta presemifla aequa tur arcui DT: therefore PS, arc DV CmfeClaniim II. T Tincfequitur. by what reason given the bow of the ass, I will bring back the shark, in DC having received the quarter, we can grieve: for the bow TD, let DC follow, by order tooth, VD, reds D G, five PS, squabi- tower, and the arc YD, the lines DL arc composed of the quadrant DT, Starcu VD, the line exDC will also be drawn to him, PS, compofka If you want to redefine the line deres arcui quadranti$DT, bisfumpto, five semicircular shark; AB, give bisfumta bit qusfltum Thus: the arc of the quadrant DT, twice fumptusunacum arcuDX, it will be scraped li ies AB, twice fumpts together with line ID, fic de csterisi Cloister
QI has been squared by the given circle three, how to put him in a given proportion it may be permitted to make a stool. First AB will be done three times tia proportional to the given proportions lem, that is to say fourfold, they are led to give an equal arch to the back of the GI. So work. SE, the third proportional is applied to the side HK, the greater in weight from which to HK, lead a normal VE Then by commun ne inter rfedion pundu m parallel, qua- dratricis taken from H, reda is drawn; where punda fedionis ad bafim AD, parallels FG, HI, KL; and the common weight of the slain of these parallels with the quadratricC carefully noted, that is, PQR. through this for, ft from the center A, you will lead the reins, they will give is the arc of the quadrant DT, in the given proportion national trust, such as TV, VX, X Y, YD, the quarter parts of the arc DT, are drawn BF, FH, HK, KA, quarter AB. As for AB, ad DT: yes BF, adTV; the rest of the parts. But AB, by the premiums equals TD. Ergo arc tv Don't make any other mistakes you will find a given proportion. Eftq; of this ufus in impressive geometry. For with the help of this any figures given by the circle there; the circle and any of its peripheries the data is divided into proportional data. Secondly, any angle in the given proportion national, and the triangle ifofceles whose each of the corners of the sharks to the rest let it have a given proportion depends on that most complicated problem: Bring any shape to the circle. Problem III Given two circles of inaqmltbus datocpii in each arc to cut off the water from the other. O Inr in the attached shape of the arc of my circle nor BC, d IK, major: asked from the bow to the greater IK, to the refeind PK, to the sharks of my bow noris EC Since then by ptsmiffa FG the shark becomes the EC bow; veto is overruled sharksFG; and hsc equal fitOK: it will be OK also for sharks EC, near the commune not that Which pounded, The bow of the tree tur OK, in a larger group of sharks EC is given, of a smaller circle, which was fa to be killed Cloister This is obvious also, give to a small circle his surroundings ri? , in each that of the other circle lo greater, the bow deter the shark to threaten Let it be small ass quadrant AEC, when taken quadratic SQ to whom it should be in arc of the greater circle If this bow is done, there will be a point terminating the arc IS, the shark of the arc which drantus ca. Therefore, this arch is where I became twofold, it will be a fourfold bow of sharks dats the circumference of the minor arc BACD, what was said It will be of this confederation in total De rojeciione [uperficierum Scbiatbericarum. the whole quadrant is to be made, so that HB, fe to Divide by the diameter sl-1-i-I-I-it DA, in fertile given proportion, and from the normal double in quadratics pundumF, through which from the center A, duda li Nea will make in H, a quarter of DB, in the date proportion for in figuti DH, adHB, so DI, to IA, this elt3. to throughout this book a huge I was Why do you have a family? I promise you will pay back. Profit III, Given the arc of the circle in a given proportion to divide O It proportion given feb- each other, and it becomes a bow HB, thus dividing, as
p I-I-U let them divide their parts adfeincem, utO, line adP, A line is drawn from the center A, in H, which makes in F: ex on this side AD, re- danormal IF, drawn, de then redla IA, in the data for He did his part and that which will be done, divided into five parts you will live; for be N, the norm the case is drawn in K, quadratic cem, the line from A, through K, du give the bow HB, in L, quarter pound BD God co arch HB, in proportion let the given O, adP, fciicet fefquieteram, efie: For the figs HL, to LB, so it is IN, to NA And Eli IN to NA, as O to P. Therefore Sc HL, to LB, as P, to O, which it was to be demonstrated. Profit IV. The whole quadrant in pro to make a given portion. oltproportio datafuberbi- dividing the lands into which what is AN, duda NK, ipfi AE, parallel making a quarter of three times in K, it is drawn from A by K. redaKL. I say the quarter in L, fe- while it should be according to the given proportion: figuti for DA to NA, so DB to LB. Problem (onJlruSfio of the new instrument Cyclotetrago- nets, with which nets; curves, care ce are equal to the nets.
Profit V. Divide the quadrant into two arcs in such a way that one of them h ale at fe to the other in data in proportion O It ratio is given four times in TV lines, as to Quorat to these TV, side -quadrantis DA, quarter proportional, cui o-v 1-1-U From what has been said here and there it is clear the infirmity of which was accomplished Please help me quickly restore any arc of the circle oqttalis, against the given reins of the bow of the sharks he wanted to be hurt. For when in progress the bus becomes demonstrative, with a square beak, la and measure the arc of the quarter be national; fectiturnecefiario, fi bafis let the semidiameter of any circle be fixed, its side lAp ttArta Magm hher III. Protheor Part Nterfecent fece in the center A, two lines; return pflaV Then from the center A, the diameter of the pipe CD, butts squidding each other, as in the figure it appears, with doubts from pundits, however aflu- ptis FGHIKC, semicircles. I agree with this take AF, the semidiameter of the circle FLQacqua- lemma AX ra; and it will be next to the demonftrated side AY, quadratic water of the arc of the quarter. FIoc therefore, the side in the previous figure refers to the line AX, so that this was the hemidrameter which drantus of any circle, AY becomes the future refla water arc quadrant XN So this one AY, in this intrumentum transfer from F, in the line AE, which it in. punbtolinteileca- bit: therefore this line will be FI, the water arc quarter FL This is also done, the urn FI, from lingulis pundtis GHIivG, ends fcilicet femicirculorum pundtis ad FI, li parallel noses are drawn GM, HN, IO, KI; and from here to the semidiameter of another quadrant punfta other parallel let them be drawn, hence another parallel m the line AX, and from these into the line CA, as let there be as many rhombuses as there were points affected There will be tongues on the sides of the Rhombo- side AD, the quadrant of the waters. Let him be there is a gnomon on the paper folidacujufvis mag of brightness, as in the shape of a quadratic triangle EDA, m quobafis quadratricis AE refers to the diameter of the circle of hay; To the truth the same side of the straight line of the shark's bow of the quadrant, whose semidiameter is EA. Ad therefore this line DE, parallel dufts RO, SG; and as many others as you will, for the triangles remain different, all the proportions lias, whose mustaches measure half-diameters the circles, the sides, on the other hand, the lines of the feu cathetis reflas equal to the arcs of the quadrant, which will be reported from uniulcujuf that Thus, AQ, the mustache will be of the quarter, whose ar to which a refla will be given equal to the AR: true to the arc a quarter of the distance AO, taken straight AI will be given equal, you will be fic of cs. As you at any end, the effect of unfaithful labor, and at the end of the imagination, the violence of Tyro to have from this, as it were, a foundation, another in we devised a tool to re- dtam to anyone. funeral But it is an injury to him who fe- it just stops. Pahnea noyi inHvUmenti. rate Ve TrojeSlione fuperficlcrum Sciatherlcaru. rum, this cft parallels are equal to that arc which is intrument to any curve which drant, from the end of which to the line AE, I would like to fasten an equal red in the line AE, they are drawn; so CE, a? quabi- of the rural quadrant CB, KP, arcuiRY; lO, of arc IZ: HN, of arc HS; GM actually bowed GS And the rhombus of the rhombus of the circumference of the circle issue If, therefore, in any way from hereto the case in o. divide into equal parts, Gula punda from A they will all be in proportional parts, and the portions of the fmgula were equal to the spoons by the steps of the arches, from which they emanate: Ufus injlr umenti noYi Cyclotetr agoni ci. Given circle gr two, iifdem reflas equal ajjigmre. Q It first grad. given the half-circle the meter becomes AC. I therefore count in with the chin I attach C, each adqo in the reda line feu is parallel to CE, for the line C will be equal ro of Lisareu grad. quadrant ABC. Let it be given the arc 8o. grad to which I return equal we must fix the issue: count from C, pun- doufquead in linea CE, &lineaC8o.
the radius will be equal to the arc of o. degrees in which drante ABC, quafita So degrees. bow the whole CE will be equal to the quadrant of the arc greater, viz. , of degrees there are two reeds CE, dEY, fimuljundae, polished to perfection. So, finally, complete semicircle CBD, the two lines will be equal CE, &ED fimulj undae, d in diredum po- fix A semicircular arch was greater rit verb gr. then CE, ED, DB, fimul they will give the thing that is well-polished and well-polished I will give the water of the bow degrees; con- equal to the circumference turret, quadruple fiCE, or CE, CD, EX, XC, five and four sides Rom bi, you would have been able to do so. This ind you will proceed in any other circles whose semidiameters in the line AC, they were in the quarter. So you see how with such ease and utility as this intru- chin mutereda curvis, dsquared ro you are pounding Note, however, that I leave that four The sides of the rhombus are fint in circumference H h circles nArtis Mani# lihsr Protbeorice Pars li. cbd circle the Rhombus shark to dry the circle; if- for this is an impressive paralogism, when not all ifoperimeters are of the shape fpacia ae such as they contain. Into this paralogue Not so long ago there happened a not insignificant Ma thematic Therefore, Rhombi CXDE the area of the circle is much smaller meter: nor will it be done; Rhombi area ae like a circle, make the sides square they shall be ordered: concerning whom Ledore is curious We wanted to warn you first, not to anyone's nose would argue with paralogisms. If any further by intrument Confederate v. professor tion i. de- to write, to use He would trust him first female diameter of the circle, to whom equal return to be affixed efl, on the line BA, how much production force give it away For from the with a plumb line parallel to AO, or FG, cut off in BO, the line of the quadrant of the circle the shark, which four times in a long, fire while the hungry will attach a line to the given circle squalem, thus quadrupled will equal cir culum G. BC quadrupled circle in tervallo BE; BN quadrupled circle inteivalloBI; And finally I will be quadrupled a circle with an interval of B A bit But if one divides BF, BC, BN, or BO, in parts, parts of a quarter nationals, he will have, as in the preceding entry chin, in the rich lines of the parts of the bows which any given sharks. I was there grace, be the quifpiamline BO in three squares if he were to divide the parts, he would have arc gra two sharks in the quadrant ABM; If in Each part is squared to one degree didi quarter, &ficdecsteiis Problem Gnomonic [aperfici em beliodromon uli- whose hemiphcerus, five way of the Sun, which vul Go to the Torrid Zone, they say, choose any given date to throw the pole into the plane O gnomonic surfaces is called Qfpffif here is all that space which is in something hemifphsrio concave tropic two is closed on the horizon. Therefore this fuperfi- so you will bring the sky down to the plane. Let it be described give dida fuperficies in plane fub elevation the Roman pole: and the largest circle became mifphsriidati the same as in the intrument cy- Clotetragonic GSR, five which is the same the diameter of which is called GA. First a line is given return the GSR shark semicircle that you have twice, fi AM, MR, you would have been able to enter to the plane, as it seems here: but to M you have taken a normal IS. Second, you will receive fuppeditabitin intrumentum in the same line GM, line GV: this from M, verfus I, you will transfer, for both sides will miss the bow degree min. which doubled the whole Did you spend time in the sun? they make a breadth, as you see. Thirdly, take the dido's intrument return such as the bow gead. min. to use from board grinds It is a T-wing Roman arch? Sunday in ss con- at the beginning, and given this line from S, transfer on both sides to the line NW, to the parallel AR, and will refer hsc thus du the folded line of the bows of the greatest day of Rome. Fourthly, let the bow be given again to the sharks grad. min. when I got out, I was pounding in line adAR, parallel you will apply, for this will refer to XY, double
catapult on both sides of the arch of the smallest day of Rom. So if XAN, YRV, bottom line If you return the rum punda, you will have it fuperficiem iht&doaMv qusfitam, in which ho races of all kinds to use circles ccele- representations of fetium, as in fertile it will be said, you will bring down the power: for bring these things down ta hemifphsrio, whose hemidiameter fitma- gnitudinis AG, in intrumento cyclotetra- gonico, so that M, only from Nadir, five centers CDe T rojeSliane fuperficierum Schiath e ricarum. at the center of the hemisphere, how much is the com- in the tetragonal intrument you have received plenum of the elevation of the pole, Romanrefcili- cet qz degree min. IMS, refpon- deat meridiana: , he will have fuperficies it was a place that the sun never crossed will be given Because the tropics in this area the greatest circles are by no means hard, as they are now The log was destroyed by all the numbers gives, intercept in the tetragonal intrument divide the diameter of the circle and both tropic fpheres, which you will have fi to the returner through You will draw parallel steps: for these have a suitable circle of the tropics twice fphserre fpacium heliodromon in the plane plan Problem V. Cyclindracea concadam [0per fide in throw a plane Given the width of the cylinder, the feu diameter AB, the length of the feu axis AC, or DB so you will throw him on the plane. First will be the diameter of the tropic on both sides. If, therefore, the muzzle of a cylinder is given, which is a circle, redraw it sharks, how bad is cyclote he made a fool of himself. So when the rneter cylinder A. V, becomes equal to AF, half metricirculiFLQdn intrumentum cyclotet- ragonico, erit FI, reda gquaiis arcu quaran tis FL. t Why did she finish fourfold the cat will give a return equal to the whole circle. This one therefore FI, transfer the quadruple inplane. from the ends of which NM, be the normals you have drawn NO, MP; and their extremapunda OP, re give conjugation, the surfaces of the hollow cylinder are heated; will be that NCOF, DEGH, EMHP, fu you will complete the quadrants of the cylinder, the ends of which gulibafespo there are degrees. Problem VI. Coni reSii fuperficio on a plane to cast Q It cone ifofceles, feu BCDE, the center of the beam F, axis triangle, through the axis ABC, or A From the center G, the distance AB, or AC, from fcribaturfemicirculus HIL, in And let AC be to CF tia circle HLI, to the fourth proposition nalem; for this part will be around ferentite circle HLI, requalis Hh z I will carry The great art of Uber III. Protheory Part II bearing? of the circle BDCE: for as the diameter ad diameter, half diameter trum, so is the circumference to the circumference then And because circles like to be divided into parts, let this arc be equal to the circumference BDCE, trusted in the steps of the HLI circle, let AC be to CF, thus of the circle HLI, ad the number four he will count the steps of that arch which is; equal to the circumference of the circle BDCE. In we made the angle B AC in the previous example, angle of an equilateral triangle: then FC, the end of the angle FAC, so that the fine end of the whole AC, so that the proportion AC to CF, becomes the same as to Fadba therefore by operation according to the rule of proportion whether, will also be the circumference of HLI, du the pla of those, the degrees which must be round of the bearing DBCE, this is the arc of the circle HLI, whatever the circumference of BDCE, it will be a semicircle, that is degrees then the semicircle HLI, the greedy fuperficia conic. For if GI, in- it is understood that the ipfiAC is to be put on, and the rest of the fu- you will complete the semicircular fuperponi fuperficia conic, the curvature of this semicircle to the circle BDCE all pundk circumferences of the semicircle HLI, fall on the circumference of the circle CDBE, because even the semidiameter from G pro- but correspond to the lines drawn from A to the pundta surrounding the CDBE. Hence it is that half LH, LI, such as are the BDC, BEC, and Fungulas li- neas from G edudlas to the prdift parts cir fellows? HLI, refpondre to those that in cones are led from the top to the gra you have a mustache That's what we also need to understand about
to any other parts, though not feigned complete degrees, only their proportion is given that is to the whole mouth; for this kind of part but the corresponding parts will be found, fi fint as the whole circumference of the mustache to the parts propofitas: this is, as the preceding number to finish, thus the steps of the whole arch HLI to the fourth: for he will give a punch same arc HLI, part of the mustache correfpon a tooth Another very easy way to wind a plane to cast The rim becomes the conic ABC, of which the it is necessary to throw it on the plane. between first take CA, or CB, the side of the cone, from cen tro A, the arc of a circle of any size, quifitBCDEF, was written. According to give day meter cone AB next to compare tion Archi- the middle give me three, ad around carry then what? lemdefignes; which will be done through the problem sheet demonstrated With this skill, anyone transfer the cone to the plane with almost no effort things Why only demonstrate the reasons here tives indicafle fuffeci. Problem VII. To throw the ball on the plane, five that it's the same, I cut those twelve cards to introduce Flat quadrant b ac, which you divide into three what parts a d, d e, e c, then draw there is an indeterminate line of magnitude VX, divided into shark parts, or only the middle in Then from the diameter intercepted fspace of such parties the diameter of which is recorded, beginning with B and ending transfer: for this space will be in par tes divifum, quadrant in the horizon of the cone AS, or SB That fi in the bow is quadrupled, the entire arc BF will be divided into quadrants, as you see, a quarter of each of them parties. So if you close this bow AB, AF, will ABF be the surface of the whirlwind, five given to the cone You will also do the same, become a circle feu baficon, in the arc of a circle BCDEF, xqua- j De DrojeSiione fuperficierum Banturarcus, as you see; with each other and another those who with the former were described in order they will finish the twelve by slaughtering the sheep like the rays of the tissues read I would have a partition of twelve I will project the chamber into the plane. make it happen than fspace a d, quadrant b ac, circle you will cross the interception three times next to the nu mere interceptive cir o. with one foot in the circle punished by the other by punished defcriba- there is a bow; Then the same opening for the rest arch by frequency ordinepun&a z. defcri- turlinea, or gypfeafpheratantemagnitu-; dinis, how much b a, the radius of the quadrant, just before x. excifos rays in order prepare the agglutinations and have the as well. Sivero one exfemicirculisMc, or OZ, in another place. divided into parts, and from poles You will draw the bow with a few feet, and you will have breadth dines, and declensions of the ftells, together with the heights of the Sun, as the poles fphaerse you will be satisfied For the six They will populate the hollow, or conve xam hemisphere of the whole three times, three times one quarter they will complete the cycle. Corollary. The middle of the water with twelve hours in throw a plane TC' lat in the process of one row of sharks semicircle, whose semidiameter Ba water parts divided into two parts you are Then to the twelve parts of clay are drawn linearly to VX normals on both sides, cujufroodi eftM c, by which all the aquatic fint of the arc of the semicircular quadrant of Bea, through the fin- for gluttony is of three different kinds MNO, OPZ; the bow of the dudti will give rays hemicycle of the middle ocator concave infe I will render them, so that they may be filled more easily in the fertile books it is possible Problem mode cards dodecatomous groups to introduce Refla line AB, realize the artists of gilt partium: CB, CE fengulas of one pair tis, ipfiq; AB smoke the tile EF, centers A, F, at intervals AB, FE, will bear two ar cus DBG, DEG; who are one of the they will bring twelve dodecatomories into the group push, by the wearing of which, as the glo bofa: they are fit, it is not necessary to dode of this kind flat catomoria extended so long, than wide, in such a way that the sharks become DG as well
to one of the arcs DBG, DEG; when EB, fexdu- plum bow: for punfta DB, they run together in the poles, and it must reach double the EB to the hemiperiphery; or what is the same, the gules of the bow EB, must weigh o. degree the biggest bus circle. Therefore it is called femi the diameter of that ball in the lower parts AB given in parts, of which half but the nearest circumference is only one minor. But first invefiigan- therefore, the arc BD is known in the same parts AB being given: which will be thus: Of which AB, is Io. BC is the arc of the same parts, of which Therefore, AB is the same: x is the same BC, And so the remainder will be AC the end of the completion of the bow BD, which in table refpondentgrad ix. who fertile minutes the circumference contains Proport therefore half the circumference to the arc BD, it will be like to this is like to to so half round bearing in parts to the quarter Hh find Artis magna Book III, BD will be found, in the same parts of the parts It will be 3i75'5'if half the circumference half the circumference of the sphere, whose diameter it is questioned, and is easily regarded, as to so to the fourth, where for this number will give the half-diameter group of parties If, therefore, the diameter of the sphere were half of one palm, or parts, and let it be to so AB will be found in eif- palm pieces jb this cft spans ounces grains; let it be done vice versa, as adxoxi so find the given AB of one span to the fourth there is the half-diameter of the group, for the dodecatom- given to the paper. Now the length of AB is found from the latitude given, the fiBE is multiplied. AB the diameter of the group, as to 20xi6 Or even to the half-diameter of the ball, as
ATHA- ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI From SOC. JESUS PRESBYTER GREAT ART LUGIS AND SHADOW Book Four CHRONOGRAPHY VARIOUS WHICH ALL KINDS OF HOURS SHADY GNOME SHOWN IN A BRIGHT P R AL E A T I O HRcemifles to all of them, how to practice the universal Gnomonic perfefle in any way They seemed to be required, but now it is in order that, having left the theory for a while, we will bring it into practice mouse: which while we are doing, we do not lack the nose of a Mathematician, who will grind the matter for us to act But I will tell them that I am very easy to elujurumfpero, while they, as long as they do not have before they were so familiar, I produced. Therefore I proceed easily: I know where I was going, I know what the world is already in Mathematical fi der et; I do not know what the Princes are grateful for at this time, whose inflation I will betray her in any way. The indefatigable ancestor of Jciendi wants to have some kind of owl in human affairs riches, than while in Speculative Mathematics, five obfpinofas traditions of the elements, five because in They do not find a complicated method of demonstration; mirnmnon efl so few who fe jujujmodi ftudiis alflraclkrilus add, dung is to be found, which is to be lamented, from the lucubrations of the rivers of men, and the monuments are held in such low esteem that the number of the monuments is so small, that there is no material suitable for their talents, fed Salflamentieris, Seplafariifque iu hoods fupelleftilem to see pneparajfe won with so much labor there Such were the works of Adrianus of Rome; such dottijfmi Viet ce, before I bring them to light Such are the majority of works, first of all on Algebra, and on other topics related to mathematics give I was frightened by these, and did not want to beat the air, as it were, because of three or four Mathematicians I did not want to expose myself to the injuries of the experts of the recondition of the Seplaflirians. But speculations abflra- I have led to the contribution of the most important and most useful mathematics to human life; as to others, the mare, affected by the nefio, burns because of the cry, but the owl falls off from the horse; so much more in the same public doing the work of law, thus complying with the materials, such as the information of the fundamental theories, that he never excludes; to every race of men, of whatever progeny they may have been,
I will adjust the belt. They will therefore find here what they love: they will be objects of the Mechanics, to whom they applaud I add many things, and most of them of greater importance, and new things invented by me, and discovered, The- or icis a new fable of innumerable fpeculations; and when he becomes a lover of the variety of men curiosity, not content with mathematical gibberish; fed on a wide range of manures Phy ficos fields flepeprorum after I tried to combine nature mathematically in such a way that, from this kind of combination, he made discoveries the foetus, which, with this task, was to be eaten with other food, and they demonstrated and demonstrated. You see then, I am not mistaken. The reader candidly, from hijce the account of my infatuation. When they fly like that, it doesn't matter flat, nifl so that we will auppice the propofitum noftrum already with full sails. part 'Ulli magne Liberi V. Horographk Parsi. PART ONE CHRONOGRAPHY VARIOUS, SIVE ON THE HOURLY CIRCLES ON ANY PLANE DESCRIPTION. CHAPTER I Ve prepared for the Gnomonic Summa. Fourfold method The sum of the whole Gnome nica is completed; Geome trike; Arithmetic, five to be recorded; Mechanics, fire Organic; Teretica, fi woe which is by oberva- And although several dehifce, in- They had already handed over the method to the whole volume; we know hpbif'a men here no lire won only by fpeculation autfaltemab aliisobfcurius delivered, new and by the easiest method, fimulqueeaqua it can be done with brevity and perfpicuity for we wanted to give As long as we do that, yes we adapt ourselves to Tyronumingen, that no one cares about anything else like Tyro It is done by fine-tuned exercise to mark Hence, as all the difficulty the obftacula would be removed, the problems pro- the demonstrations of the affluent in a few words in fact, or even to omit most of the profanity let's go as you can their principles and reason nes ferorfim in Apparatus, demonstrative he proceeded by the method to which he was more erudite We let the slayer go: for I know not a little in the way of demonstrations to slow down the thread of pragmatism. Whoever Therefore, the problem of the prophecies of the system lest they wish to do more deeply, iife to Ap bring it ready, where all the fuse demon- given, according to the allegations of each problem they will find their mother's comfort. As also Tyro He would proceed with inoffensive practice, those intricacies so many charad erum repetitions given works we pity of which all before Ledo I will remind you of the matter, lest it should be my fault in this work the intention was hidden. Parafceuaftic problems. Pragmatism I ConfiruSiio of the quadrant of the borograph. We call the wandering wonder because of the wonders which in Scia- it has the advantage of making the you It is also called a chronograph, with each help, hours of all kinds they were incarnated in any way. So then be done Let it be in any matter that the leaves are deposited let the square AllvL, from whose angle A, tan- than the center, a quarter of the circle was carried IK, by whose rim in degrees and the reins are drawn from the center A into the sides K. L, IL, and I would have a square before ready, of which in the whole Gnomonica is immense it's crazy For first let the line BS, to the side AI, you will draw a parallel of the quadrant, which with the poor Qmnes will make rays, first it will burn for you mfJfili! give, when from the center A, return all the singing; but the parts in the line BS, the arc CB, they shall be restored and touched; but the end all AB, in ioo let the rich be divided into parts. Second, to the tables of shadows the lighthouse, which will burn, be AB, for phthylo in i2. or xo divide the parts by: has been Thirdly, the same line of BS, by hedamorios divide the rays, for clocks of all kinds the dido will boil faster to draw. Fourthly, for the heights of the Sun, often hours in any period cularifuferficienfcribendis Fifthly, for all kinds of portables the clash of clocks; as in decurfu the work will be revealed. Sixth, lines IB, RB, FB, EB, QB, CB; they reshape the middle cones, the axes of which AI Horography 'Varia. .AI, AR, AF, A, AO, AC, in which rum to the hollow fupercies, which they relate lateralB, FB, omnigeneric fciatherica
they will be cut off, so that in any given cone concave, whose angle between the axis, He was known, and in this square de- terminated, any horolabiuminfcribi he loves Seventhly, the bow CI ON, EV, EM, RK, where are the branches of the circles? refresh runt of cups, bowls, and other things the hollow fuperfi of phphteric bodies a sea of any size. Odtavo, but the bow of the quarter from the cent tro A, duftus, cujufmodiultimusIK, is a quarter of the concave hemicycle of the hours indicates that it is suitable for rejection. Ninth, for the declination of the planes which to be taken in rows, in order to decline tia, inclined to be decribed, the same fcrviet. Tenth, bows of wood, foreign that the inferences of the cafteft circles, by no other means more easily than by this one with the help of the drant, as in the decurfu of this work in it will be dedicated, they will be arranged. Why do you want him? give it to the familiar, before Pragmatics you will attack, I promise. Pragmatics The gnomonic triangle was extended to to confirm health T) The principle and foundation of the whole Gnomonic: is the shore determined fty- fJmgnomo- liita to be the proper distance from the center nicum, fun-clock, live polo, equinoctial, iotiusboro m indeed all clocks on the horizon group such, vertical, declining, ineli- born (fi plana, icqiunoftialia, meridiana receive it) that the phthylus should be diftan then he should have additional points, work with a triangle it is what we call gnomonic, in by which the length and height of the gnomon are given the poles together with the luo's complement were more quickly dived aligns This, then, for what reason I flew to any country at will it should be, let's see. The third way. "MT Umera, therefore, the breadth of the country. on the edge of the AKI quadrant, carefully noting the pun F, in which the radius AF, Romans elevation of pole qx. steps he makes the arch IK, and the two from F, in P, nor wrong, you will have a triangle for your appetite. Here for the ray AF, licks the arc 4z, gra two, it will be the whole gnomonic triangle fcilicetlatitude from the center of the clock to each side cequinodtialcm: FP Vero finus rectus, or touching the same degree: AP, fine completion of the elevation of the Roman pole, or the end of the whole refpeitu touching each other. In this triangulignomonic bafe place, &alti- itudoftyliita be found. Derived from the pun cto P, five angles returned to the beak AF, nor evils; and he will give hxc ipfa in PS, linea, lo with the feet in S, I determined its height born On this account the triangle of Gnome you will find no one for any attitude even given They are all lines from in the center A, in the arc IK dudre, the bales of the triangle lifting the gnomonic straps nes poles given True, as a single view the gnomonic system of triangles perceive the rum, here is the shape of the cup at ten of the polar elevations crushed, inj which is the gnomonic triangle of elevation poles o. degree it is ABL, ftylus, and jocufque LSt but the throttle is degrees will be ACM, i i phtylus. Artis magm Book IV, Horograph Part ftylusMS, a place in S. Thus the triangle is given, so that it appears degree will be ADN, the place in S, and the height of From which he also tries to point out, those triangles Grad. Triangle gnomonic fABL
NS mustache aeo ftylus O S i feu C A E Sinus rectus, EO AFP
P S making A F touching the fire. E P I am AMR.
but the difference is that the clock is ticking zontale, fub width degree is, ver tical fub width degree, contra, fic about others The second method. C onflruclio of the gnomonic triangle by the tangent tes for the horizontal plane, Cs for the vertical plane. C It gnomon length AO, iooo. match in that place he shaves, five ends of the whole: take it the tangent of the completion of the elevation of the pole in the parts of Ityl, and him from A, Tocoftyl transfer to point B, and we will have cen trum of the clock Take a tangent again elevation, five high poles in parts Ityli, and transfer it from A to the place of Ityli in V, and we would have a common slaughter of the meridian and of the equator:
vationispoli grad. it is elevation quatoris If therefore from B, V, in f-peak ftyliiineasB0, V, you led; ha- grad. you will drink the gnomonic triangle no namely BOV This is the method of all things It is the fastest, most of all the high tangents of the pole, and the elevation of the equator he had his own things prepared. As well to proceed more easily, take the length of fty- li AO, and it several times into the line AN, you will transfer, so that fpatia AO, refpondens phtylo in or parts cenfeaturdi- live; ON in as many, NM in as many. If, therefore, fspace AO, be in parts divifum, each of the tenth parts divide it further into other parts there But these things are easier than I have explained they should be loved Furthermore, this triangle in verfumferviec for the vertical plane, thus il by applying the lud to the said plane, as the center of V Let B be the common interferon of the clock ction of the equator and the meridian; VO, phtylum feu, the axis of the world, OB, the ray of water report Who all, with the fuse demonftra- in the Gnomonic Apparatus, that leCto- We have dismissed the matter. Pragmatism III. (JmflruUio of a triangle for any plane declining We will doubly invent this kind of thing gnomonic triangles First Geom trice, feu analemmarice. Secondly, I perished nut has three ways C It moves the plane every degrees. a meridiana, five which is the same, degree declining from the vertical primary. Let them be on the said plane guide line? AB, CI, in N, ad slaying the righteous of the arc BC, in it the declination of mu is calculated ri; which is determined by the line NI: then in at any point for the size of the schedule, fcihcet, inV, raise the tangent of completion tion of the pole, as&inNA, the tangential elevation nis pole is determined by degrees, have bisque triangle ANV, in which A cent trum is a declining clock; a triangle and ANV will be the triangle of the gnomon when Hfe borografia Varia,
when on a horizontal plane. Hifce prxmiffis thus the gnomonic triangle is a plane you will find it declining. First, transfer the tangent NV, exN, on the line of declination NP, on the point I. Secondly, from pun&oad CI is drawn by perpendicular IM. Thirdly, by M, it is drawn from A, returned, qu it will be a line of thread. Fourthly, to AM, draw the normal OQ which will be the quintessence in the declining plane. Fifthly, from M, the turn O will be determined equal to MI, namely MO, and will be AO, dtfda axis of the triangle. Sixth, exM, to OA, another normal MX, fcilicet, semidiameter of the equator, 8cex X, to MA, the line of the phthyl, another normal is drawn, that the length of the thread, and its place will point at F, and the triangle will be gno MXA handlebar, flat degree. declining, he found what was sought. No stool for any other elevation you will find the poles of the triangle below the force of the plane deviating from the vertical, Pragmatism IV. Three numbers, five tangents, a triangle gnomonicumfufra to find the declining plane. Q It plane declining degrees, in which the locus of the foot C, the height of the gnomon CO, too party It is drawn through C, line ad the beak is parallel to the plane DE, which will be the hour zontal, in which the tangent plane declination from the south is CB: through B therefore I am perpendicular laris to DE dudladabit hour iz. on the plane: perCverd give the place of the normal phtyl du&a bit in the A clock center. In this, then line AC, given the clock quently strangle propofit ftriareperies: Scprime inclination indeed nem gnomon, five line fytli from linea AB, by the end of this reason. Since then let fe have the tangential elevation of the complement from the pole to the tangent of the declination of the pole, so that the whole ends at the end of the declension of mu ri; multiply the tangent of the complement the vation of the pole at the end of the wall's declination; and the smoke will be divided by the end of the whole I trusted the inclination of the line. Tragmatic Paradigm O Ic Rome declines in the Ortus plane each grad. will be his end ftus of the elevation of the pole of completion tangensqB degree indeed quducftain they will give the smoke, which is divided by the end of the whole, will give a tangent of
woven from fine boards grad. min. The angle of declination is given by the tangent lead to its completion in a tangential decline the wall of the nation, and divide it by all the smoke, and I would have a deflation A B, the center of A, the center of B, a horizontal line OF; for if from A, through C, the place of the phylum will be returned OC, dukes will give pundtumA, one with the line OC, the triangle AOC, propofit plane But still this is the same it will be found in the end. Lead the end of the decline of the nation of Ftyli on the tangent of completion I give the plane of declination. degree &produ6turn divide the whole at the end, and give the bit tangent of the elevation of the phytyl CO Like for the whole ends at the end of the decline Phtyli was discovered a little before: thus touching the com of the deflection of the plane to the tangent of the elevation of the foot, the steps of which will give ta I was a tangent. Otherwise. F TT end all to the end of completion elevation of the pole, thus the end of completion of the plane of declination at the end of the elevation a bow, whose bow will give in fine boards when Pragmatism V. The gnomonic triangle of the elevation of the pole in clocks inclined to the horizon, Cg from ho to determine the horizontal decline A clock tilts to the horizon ta nothing but horology ho- horizontal refponden of different widths aunt a triangle of certain width it will be a triangle. Yes, on the clock gyus inclining to the horizon grad. three the gnomonic angle will be trian gnomonic throat on a horizontal clock to the elevation of the pole grad. conftruftxn See part and below, where from the tilting of the clock. Since further, the clock tilting from the horizon nothing else feigned, than the turning away from the Horologist cali, it becomes like a triangle of elevation of the pole fu Julinun- from any vertical plane nans, therefore, let the femper correct him to some one the femper is furious the clock receding from the horizon; so trian-alicM ha gnomonic throat at the level of degrees iafnJu, Uccalum receding from the horizon the same' 6R, vevertica that the gnomonic triangle in the plane o'clock in the afternoon degree declining to latitude grad- So you see everything gnomonic triangles in any case planes, or to the triangles of the horizontal planes Ii such. ItiflrumtH- then Encli yours
zArtis magna Liber W. f rotbeorU Parsi. such, or to three vertical planes to recall the gluttony. Pragmatism VI. enflrumentum enclitic, five declinato- rium 'vniverfale conjlruere IC' Tfi in problem i. fuse is made of plane whose extremities LO, (qua: irt medio li let there be a decline in degrees of confidence nis monflrandisaptam) two others are founded tigilli LF, OE, and tigilli LF, in F, fe- I will divide the circle into steps let me have Let there also be a certain plain table na, which has an axis in FE, the center of the semicircle mmutumauuug, cx liituuituuiic li tro F, E, inferred, utiniisvelutipolis given but they were made to smile less, to be lowered and raised at the pleasure of the engineer he here another Inflrument defcriberevo-poflit: he should also have in X, a cochleola, luimus, in which, as if in an anacephalseofus, a degree given as fupra wants to be established. In whatever did he do, comprehenfum in- Y, also pundocurfor BY, inferred, he will come; which is universal, and almost infinite, so that it is said to be at the discretion of the user, ufus will be able to be in the whole Gnomonica. Thus, he now wishes to be drawn out; He should also have a trunk he has to be disappointed. jinpundis B, a fourth heir, Delmeetur in a certain leafy board whose edge By, a line of trust: from the cen- KMNO, the circle inquatuorqua- tro, verfatiliseducatur, -huicurfori as you can see, the rich man who was carrying the circu- lum inS, a log is brought to the center, the wood which is to have the ufum, will be said in fe- with those Therefore, properly you will have influence on the radix prxparatum, which I gave more quickly any plane you take For if the brick LF, OE, along with the confidence line: PS, and the rest of the bricks such as the Board of the IBCD, rotate fupra LO, Ortus, Occafus punda: demonftrabit line fi
ducia SP, necefalario line noon but the table IBDC, then uuum from inclinan or inclined demons flare, or even horizontal has become a parallel for the degree of the semicircle, which cut off the side. Moreover, be IBDC table, to be fixed at pla whether lower KOMN, rede; you will have a vertical -rede Au- ftrum refpiciens, cujusoppofi- tapars femper has a plane that he should reflect on Borea. St put the button back on the left degree, it will be pleasing to you is the polar opposite the fixed part is the lower pole. Yes I'm sorry you will have to lean from horizon degrees If I continue I will return the whole table so ver teres, as in the quadrant buttGH, side DI, abfcin- he gives, he will give you such an elevated pla whether the Roman tequinodiale with bricks, 8c you will blow with the rest of the fyflemate any degree from the south with the weight P, declining; it smells taboo to you la IBDC, to the horizon reda plane de leaning so many steps from the South, Borea in Ortum, or Occafum, as many SP line trusts degrees the upper part, and the opposite part below. If la tus tables Id, fupra the other degrees of promotion peres, they will be given flat inclined Borea rci- thinness If you want to renew the IBDC, please aum KLMNO, redam, one line of confidence Vfus of mind clitics Iden, f i tome to Gnome's it is nit4t Horograpbia yaria. the steps will be removed and the table will be filled rotates all the vertical declining fu- you will finish If the confidence line is blown again, it's foolish pundus O, or I East, or West, The IBDC table will show you the next level micircule deprefte, or elevated, all pia- na declining from the horizon farther back, 8c inferior Ortum, Occafum refpicia. If it ends; let the confidence be flattered: the dust is gra dus from P the meridian pound on the other side; decline tes, table IBDC fupra degrees semicircle GHX, then the board will be all flat thousands but we present what had to be done. Curfor but with the quadrant, and the line trusts oflen He says that every plane is made to the axis of the world, which the line rests with confidence ret, have, and this throughout the whole world. they will fold Pragmatism VII. %egul& [ciatherictfjjtve horographic bric, and in the whole of the Gnomonica is wonderful. Clavius stood out for each of them in the new registration of the Vo- ellius in fua Horologiographia: fed quo- niamejusuf very limited demon llrant, I would first unify it at this point I will teach you to build so that almost nothing at all It becomes gnomonic that the rules of this benefit that is, it cannot be expedient. So to the point Ttpgula horographica, JtVe fciathericaad All kinds of useful drawings. Eternity in the wonderful quadrant of latitude rules from A, verfusB, per B parallel to BS, drawn to AI; will give the middle True, this is the rule of the most infecible sex part: ABML, the worst offender Iorfanta! .g: tsuu fex hours from noon, middle node; that It will be a BS line of the quarter, for one hour count the steps; punda enimedefg they will give hours, with the pun push, let the space allow, when the quarter these hours Here the same bleeding fspace from B, verfus K, to the other side re- guls transfer, have regular hours graphics M. KLI, perfedam: quautvni- it becomes more verfali, the fcal of the latitudes of the regions to form any gnomonic triangles, so confounded Gnomonic d. diet to limit gnahedemo- riad div. fio- neither drantis, five They are transferred from the center of the quadrant draw A, all the lines forming the quadrant between A and the line BS, intercepted, in the rule lam drawn from a certain weight meridian lines, viz. from on both sides X, veifus Y indeed for bafibustrian of gulls, of gnomonic clocks rizontaliums: verfus X for mustaches of triangles in vertical clocks, pundislineae SX, the numbers la were brought away from the Titus, beginning with the verfus S; No but of the mere latitudes in SY, wooded you would bring the complements of latitudes, use that rule complete with all the numbers the preceding figure teaches. If it is true
you would trust your appetites to be larger; refeind from the whole parallelogram mum ABLS, regulates both parties thus agglutination, as the extremity of the rule M, corresponds; a veil also from the quadrant on both sides regulg part of the circle transfer, to him the numbers degrees together with complements, as here you see, by adding them, you will have a focus of breadth whether, from what I did sooner, I know the triangle it may be permitted to make a moniker; of which this to avoid confounding in lust Ex- panfam, to call the other Contratla vivim efl: both will boil at Almucantar, Azy- mute, and the rest of the first mobile circles, inferring the given planes you bend, as it is said in the decurfu of the work. See the figure is here propped up, where I ruled Expanfam indeed you see nothing else but the quarter I i y circle A exSi- B from virtis Magrn liher IV circle, whose rays; betrayed in parallel a gram ABLS should end. Contrada ve- ro, nothing else rallelogram mumBTSV, in where from B put on the line BS, &TV, fin- gules of radius between B&AL, in received, trans parallel lift and conjunct break up the rule Horographk Pavs L CHAPTER II. Jlnalemmatic geometrical Problem Hours d noon, half noBe, with the help of the gnomonic triangle, in five regular planes, one and the same work-describable Rimo, first becomes a triangle next to the gnomonic light Problem Program IV. to Rome a dime degree adapt then ACD, cuj us bafis C D, the half-diameter of the hour zontis; AD, vertical; BD, vertical refer to the diameter of the dial five regular planes so hours aftro you will throw out nomics. First, let them be led on the plane by any guide line AB, CD, in the center E, in- terrifying. Secondly, the female diameterequinodialisBD, from E, a circle registered as follows the fish is divided into parts starting with G, O p waves facing each other, it will be that this squinodial clock Thirdly, let two lines be made to Punda GO tangents HI, KL; which from E center neSredsper they will make a division punda: but the punda was fixed in the contingent lines the combined returns will give the hourly lines ad GO south parallels; and they in the meridian plane of the East, and the West such, as in the polar plane qusfits Quarro, take it from the gnomonic triangle horizontal hemidiameter CD. her that from the tangential pound, inBpun- while you transfer, and B will be the center, from which to the common intersections of parallels, line; contingent KL, reda: doubted da- b. pnt hours from noon, half node in horizontal plane Fifth, the half-diameter AD of the gnomonic triangle, is transferred from G into A, from which lines to common faiths li nea: tangent HI, parallel dudp they will give 'JEqtiinoBi gle holo gius schedule flourish 'Meridia whether the East ia. lt. Morography 'various' they will give the hours from noon the middle node in vertical plane Clockwork, therefore, five that is, equinoctial, polar, meridian, horizontal and vertical conflruximusope of the gnomonic triangle, which had to be done. The other method is much easier by using T univerfaliorprrzditta A Take in the parts of the semidiameter toris DB, in io. divide the waters fcilicet, in the fine parts of the whole, touching of the hourly dtftants from noon, and transfer from the meridian G, O punctisu- trique into tangents HI, KL They are au tem diftantiahorariagraduum for a wooden line through the points: ex centers A vertical, B horizontal draw the clocks, they will give the hours on the spring plane tical, horizontal: indeed punda in lines HI, KL, from which you return from the distant south they will give hours in the polar plane, and at both noon If, therefore, the first circle in aquatic I will divide the parts into a watercraft quidiftantermfiveqB. Rome steps here raised you will have a clock aquinodialead hours monftranda difpofi- then, be first in the center of it to threaten the quantity of phymat erected De- the monftration from the ipfa collision is better known,
as it should be said. Notably, this ho a rare double ele, lower and upper. In the lower shows the hours of the Sun in the south; in the infernal Sun in the boreal trees to; the number of hours in the lower I was a fusillade, and a counterpofe in the hours of the lupier Second, be the parallelogram of your HKIL na with the parallel lines of the hours is the garden fenced in a circle parallel, five, which is the same, the axis of the world, so ap you are bent, so that it reflects from one side to the other; fty lusauteminE hourii. so high quantaDB is normally inherited: it will show the hours from. noon, and the middle no on the polar plane. This demon We gave the proof in Protheory pof Thirdly, be the parallelogram RSIL, por tion of the parallelogram HKIL, tranftule- ris in the southern part of the east parallel to the plane, so that the hour line is tied li nea CAin the gnomonic triangle, juxta cu the right must be raised, ftylufque from E the size of the triangle BD He was normally an heir; it will blow him in in the meridian plane hours from the central node trust By far the easiest reason is shown by fe. Fourthly, let be a quadrilateral, a portion of the pafallelogram HKIL, in oc the central part of the meridian plane transftuleris the triangle CDA, thus iit Meriiid- litieahora girded by the axis of the world (which ABC, pci- the line of the triangle corresponds) flylufque d(new- as before from E normally of the quantity BD, when it is reduced, it will show itself in the same plane hours from noon. Fifth, be a VOX clock with hours you were in a horizontal plane with lines anyway when you have brought it to an end, the gnomon will be in it normally he would eat hours from noon, and me dia node quality And the place of the phthyl, its height will be considered as such. Transfer in with the gnomonic triangle CBD, the space between CS, from the center of the clock B, in the straight line diana in the pound S, and that will be the place of the but the height of SB Sixthly, make a vertical plane of the clock If you bring the SGT, the gnomon will show I enter the hours from noon, and the middle node. Yes but the room will be found, and the height of the gnome nis: in the gnomonic triangle ABD, AT fpa is transferred from A, the center of the clock to Vem the meridian line, and the boundary line: It measures the position of the gnomon: the length but his will indicate the BT line. Reasons An of the throats, with the clariffifamt, from all horologiographis demonllrata; with support we omit, lest there should be any difficulty in the matter we drain the pus. If beyond the hour the horizons of the loggia le, vertical uni- y If you trust the rodent, work in this way: If the plane horizontal GFDE, vertical wire ID through both clock center ID du- while, he will give what he has. The reason will depend on a by the triangle NAO, whose angle A is the height nem pole arcus HC, grad. Oh, is it true? the throat contains the complement of it. Problem f)iSlas hours d noon, and half noBes in the plain domains, the mica circle is the opening of the domain to speed up Pragmatism I iAeqmnoElial's clockwork the opening of the circle. "O Rimus, be the clock of the plane of aquinodia" The only opening you can trust is to outline the issue; let two lines be drawn in the given plane to fe nor evils IA, HG, from which common each circle is drawn with a weight of faith the size of IGAH: then the same boar draw a line from A to the circumference of the circle divide the circle into parts. Second, again, with one leg of the circus pofito in the pound H, or j Artis magna Book V. Horography Part H, vci G, another fex punfta in the environment fignen- tur, and there will be a rich circle in iz. parts Thirdly, with the foot of the circinus in A&F, also in A, H, the points of the hidden arc tur, through whose interdiction from B cent tro line ducts will make the arc AF, in-S: AH, in O. Pofitus therefore invariates the circini pe from in S, with the other print punfta in the circle of the circle, and the circle will be in eighteen parts tes riches: then I want in O, invariable you will print the same number of punishments in the circle conference, a rich circle will be missing inzq. . parts of the sharks, to whom the punishments of the divisions Duits lines will give hours at noon, day at night The order of the hours, and the ratio of the
and his tuft will not differ from the preceding de- by taking Pragmatism II. Hours from noon, and half no SI e, in the hour with the same polar log and the same opening of the circle so bear it. Remove the clock from any punishing lines tUre- L noitialis GH, v. g. from B the interval quan the circle of AGHI, cu the right femiperiphery of the lower GAH, ea then the opening from the punishments H, G, in the fex par divide them, as in the preceding operation it is done In the second place, therefore, he was punished by his actions GFHI, from I, A, as if the centers were redrawn you will have hidden things, you will be punished noitialiXY, perqusparallelsad meridia for the duits will give certain hours. Hours therefore we describe a single opening in the plane that was to be done. With truth meridian clock dine will depart from the polar, the polar south will become whether to the east, be twelve adfcripfers fectam, &hors elevenseventh, de- and I did the same thing as before it is evident from the yielding inference. Western but it shall be done; ms quintani, fecund fourth, Aft. "Q Rimo, the size of the phytyl on both sides ex at the point B, transferred to the line GH will give two hours fkp. Second, fpacium GH, translated from al with another punch I, or A, in line XYI, will give and on both sides. Thirdly, this same Ipacius GH, dtis4. on both sides of the line X, Y, trans Fourthly, this same space GH, expun- dto verfus B will give translated &ex pundto odtav? hor? give the translated verse B bit the first hour. The second, and the tenth the third part will give lines B4, &B3. demon The division of these will be evident in the fertile ones. Por ro fi per pundta hours in line X Y in wind, I led the parallels to the south rice; you will have hours in the afternoon, and half in the afternoon carried away See the demonstration in ul afraid of the operation of this Pragmatism III. A vertical clock with one ring opening fainting C It is the gnomonic triangle ABCD, applied to the meridian lines in points A D: to AY is raised the normal EF, in pundto D. Hoc fadto hours one and the same so you will find the opening of the circle. It is taken in pri mum circle at distance DB, quifecit 5-night EF in points Dia the meter of this circle from V on both sides in li neam EF, you will transfer, and you will have hours. And from pundtis the same day meter in the same line further translated will give: hxc the same expunftis Sc Reftant pumfta io. z, who thus found nies Verticilla tioriymttC- Horographies "various. meters DB, be made in circumference pundaS, through which out of the reins the duds will lick EF-, you're wasting your time. If therefore from Aper the findings of the punda are being dealt with, it will come out the log that was sought. Or shorter otherwise: Upper or lower waist circumference bearing, as it is a little earlier, divided there are equal parts in the fence, through which: ex pun ctis red? equinoctial EF piles; through which again from A, cen by the clock, the reins will give the hours the benefits Pragmatism IV. The horizontal register of the clock is small the opening of the ass. . Let the gnomonic triangle be congruent applied three times to the meridian line, which NV, make the orthogonal in punda A. First, from A, the interval AB, the circle de- fcribatur: I say this circle in line VN squinodiali to refresh the hour Cum for AG sharks becomes red A9. &A3; they will be angle AS9. A9S, equal; for they are Let the sharks be brought back to one, then both the thighs will be, this is degrees, and therefore completed hours from noon. Return, then didus circle in VNabfcindet9. hours. Secondly, the diameter of the said circle from in NV, the line translated on both sides will give ho ram which I thus conclude. Since for the diameter is twice AB, that is, AM it will be from the M8 mortgage. M4. Be that as it may the same, S8 S4. also double lines AB five AM and with and degrees, id It is four hours from noon veroAMB AMq. as many degrees as com let them take it, it is clear that the lines M8 M4 return in VN, fecareq. hours Thirdly, let MS be the diameter, five to it squalemM8 further in line NV, expun-
if you transfer the hours and it will refresh those hours for you When enimM7 an the neck EMqbifecet, the angle AMj will be con- frequently degrees, which hours before are completed in the afternoon. The same must be said of5. afternoon Return therefore we see If again exq. diame trum MGverfus meridiem tranftuleris, of to inquire: the hours and which you will have, be by S in quadrant M9. or through P in the arc M3. from G, or M, you will draw reins, hidden: for you are the NW line in pundis fe- they will fit; for it is the hour of the third party lines A8. or Aq. If therefore exD by pun give in NV, you will bring back the findings, you will have horizontal clock. What happened between valla between S and punda odd hours from ipfi pundis of odd hours, transfer shave in both directions; you will have punda the middle hours. Quadrants too you will have hours, be the interval between while cujufvisfemihors, ScpundumS, hence Dummodo from there you transfer: qus omnipraxis ipfacla-f the river will teach Or more briefly; For the thigh di-hlblmtut. the waist circumference is seen in shark parts; by which I was made of the stings of MS you will bring hidden things, they will make them hide dialum NV in pundis, by which of D reds duds medias horasaffignabunr If indeed fe miperiperipheria iii2q divide into parts, and they will give you the MS from where you will lead them to them online NV quarter of an hour. Kh 'Problem- Artu Magne Uber IV. Horograpbk fars I Problem Hours from noon, and half a night, in quin which regular planes through tangents de- To write Pragmatism I Adquinoffial register. k Equinodial clock construction, d when it becomes the easiest of all, and nothing From the South, the East, and the East, the fola difference relies on the inverse number- liud than the circle in zq. equal parts rich man, here I will diverge another from the proceeding I didn't want to give up. Why to describe the polar while we turn Pragmatism II. Drawing of a clock by Tangents. Uplex efb polare, fuperier, inferior. Superior Zenith, five Auftrum; below Nadir and Borea reflected. Both one Western AM Touching PM
rum in order, as it appears in the figure. Given therefore AB, I will divide it into ten parts, of which and each again into another ten or a hundred parts of a cent featureffefubdivifa. itautflylus ioo. autiooo. part of Hmiogius it is done, that the fubfid board is fixed here, so that these points are inye-pohfale nies Take the quantity of Ityl, and put it on the line AH a-feriP Tr transfer the liquid several times. Then from the board you get tagcn's tangents corresponding to the hours from B to the line XY transfer for in this way you will draw parallels to IA, you will have registered polar clock. The reason for this is because when the equatorial plane is returned to the polar plane; they will be Projection of the occidental radius in the plane of the brain hours. For, indeed, the heftemorius ray ad compared to noon; the angles of the sun's dilatation from the south they make the swindler, they will give their touch rio pundta projected the unequal hours. Scholmm about the tables of Tangents. NOs, when we order all the tangent files to Itylum in iooo. divTum parts; lest we be forced any line of Ityl refpondent in iooo. parts to divide only the first numbers, that is, those who x bulamtaw- from any tangent they remain, to be used so that the loco-federation num fint: tangenshora i. elt from which the two numbers taken down leave z. If, therefore, two parts are taken in Itylus, and still id elt parts of one in divide into parts, it will give you the same pun- As it was given, it was Itylum in iooo. ae-j what kind of parts do you divide, and hence parts for the tangent hour and affumpfiffes. I would like you to note everything carefully. Ure for in this method the wall is successful in all these papers. Since then the polar and meridian universe Falia fint, through the whole world, fi ho the difference of rare feet, the same fint; they will be forbidden? HorograpbU varied. table: also universal to the whole world, common to both. Just like the rest in po
the discovery of the order of pounds the common putridus of the meridian, and the skin of the day a lawsuit so in the meridian clock the same a the common weight of the line of the barn, and water on both sides in the requinodial trans by striking a tangent, we would have both poles ria, which the south can save with the help of fines. Pragmatism III. Vertical clock, horizontal by Tangents ctmftruSiio. C It is the Gnomonic triangle ADB ver- applied to the plane of the ticles, whose diame three squinodial DBinius. yes or iooo it becomes divided into parts: that is, the whole becomes fine. If you go then from the table of fine tangents of the hours with the same women in the DB parts, from the point D, in the tequinodial line trans- of the foot, from the center A by the tangent ex you will lead the trema punda; you will have an hour vertical log AM Touching PM pyo horologiisHorizpntalibuSy Again, if you trust the horizontal clock, it becomes trian Vertical Polar. Each gnomonic for the horizontal plane DBA, and becomes. divide the asquinodial diameter AB into io-oo. its parts les, ideft, aflumaturfor the end of the whole line AB. If then A on both sides in the equinodal VN tangential hours, and femifi- bus, and the quartering hours and by the discovery of the hours in the center of the clock you will give; you will have hours from noon, Scmedianodein qusfitas on a horizontal plane. Another way of describing horizontal, vertical. Let ABCD be inscribed in any circle, of which AB is the measure diana CD, primary vertical; you will fall from the table clock ticking on both sides, it is done. Take a step up of the pole, that is to say degrees; then no the mere weight of B, io. min. on both sides: for through the hofce from the center the dashed line will give the hour and for the hour z. o. from the same B count zi. grad min. from the center through them the reda will give the hour o. 8t fic de ex you have to proceed. Instead of verticals you will receive a number data correlating the elevations of the poles as the title suggests, on the side. K. k z Ta-
infinite z6q hirtismagne Book IV. Gmm. uriofie ParsL A table of horizontal arcs between the meridian and the vertical primary intercepts for horizontal clocks, Vertical to elepationes pole fupputata.
If both clocks are horizontal, how vertical from this table And the centers F, G, are joined by a thread; it will offend that is the axis of the world corresponding to this plane horizontal BA, than vertical li BC, some hours; will be that in the plane both lines meridian GF@ &EF CHAPTER Pole Heights for Verticals. Horographies "various, C A T F D III. Of the clocks declining from the south, Introduction I turned the clock Come on, there's a horizon somewhere such and contrary II. Every hour deviating from the vertical, ali where is the clock? horizontal and vertical III. Every clock is ticking sometimes horizontally and vertically. IV. Every clock is declining on the horizon, there is something about the clock tilting from the vertical, and ending up somewhere horizontal, so that the clockwork in be contained by thousands of clocks. what and the horizontal horology fmt even though the elevation of the pole da fint, he teaches the triangle nicely manicum fupra plane declining, or in bowing I declare the matter by example. Horolo gium fub lphasra reda horizontal, fub pole ell vertical straight, declining: in a plane the pole is everywhere inclined to the horizon: in the meridian plane is removed from the horizon nansqo degree in the polar plane degrees in leaning and declining It is false; from in tilting and tilting the CDnipdfaturii. The same of each one; another horizontal must be said. So if one is horizontal or vertical the net had been fixed, and all the rest Decimation and inclination I do not deny in any way he will be able to describe it. The whole business let us discuss four problems. Problem Hours from noon, and midnight on the clock to write down from the vertical Four in this business fcitunecefiaria
are required First, the decline of the wall; Himself cundo line indicator, five noon declining A third asquinodtial beach. Fourth gnomonic triangle whether declining, whose opepofteahoraslicuti in the rest of the horizontal clocks were written First, geometrically, we will learn to find arithmetically. Pragmatism I Two lines were drawn on the plane of the piam declining in E, adrecftosfefein- terminating ABCD Let it be a declining place from south to east degree, the completion of which is degrees its primary deviation from the top. First from E the arc of the circle at any interval of two catur, in which you will count the declination of the pla no Let the arc HF be the declination of the wall, let it be in or then: HG verily the arc, the declination of the same, be he has declined into the occafu. On the true plane the boreal declination will be from the south to the east IL. il occafum LK, on ​​the opposite side of the former shore; I. Therefore, with these prasmiffs, it is transferred from E in N, tangent to the elevation of the Roman pole degree and N will be the center of the clock, and from E in M, the tangent of the completion of the same. Eph but the tangent 4x degree touching qg. complement II. Touching EM from E will transfer anger EF the line of declination of the wall, quickly in O, from here to CD, the normal inheritance in P, give bit punched, through which from N center horo- Ogii recla dufta will give a line of filth, feu me of the declining plane of the ridials, as the gnomonic triangle must be founded. Kfe, III. Ad t6i virtis Magna Uber IV. III. At the line of the phytyl NPV, in P, nor given to evils he will touch the waterer QR, in declining plane IV. In the line QR, from P, the verfus Qjleter- the line PG is threatened, the sharks PO, and will give pound G conjtmdum pound N, axis the bottom of the world; but normal to NG, that is, SP, the diameter of the squatter, normal ST, gnomon, ejufqueinT place, and it will be a gnomonic triangle a prepared plane. V. If, therefore, I have translated PS into the line of phtyl ris, and from the weight of the termination cir a cullet of any size can be deciphered; he will restore it in divided into equal parts line QR, squirodial in pundisper which from the N center line will give reds duds hours from noon, and the middle node in the given place no declining profits (beginning with a number making rum from point X, in which the line EB, and the squinodial fe as Schema teaches: which should be well noted. Pragmatism II. Horography Pa? s I Declining from "Vertical Tangents de- the easiest registration of all. C It therefore redes AB, however much he hesitates for horizontal; in which place C is chosen, and the normal CD becomes ae quality But the expenses should be returned in any case for any number of pieces, equal to CD libus, and indeed in the first branch in divide into equal parts, let the tangent be taken of the wall sloping from south to east. degree (The tangent of degrees is a part of the ftyli jc trorfum, fiin ortum; finiftrorfum, fi in oc- the coffee has declined; on the horizon AB, and take the terminal block B the tangent of completion, of decline wall, apparently 6o. grad. qu? refpedu ftyli in divided into parts: min. and from C to A the opposite side of B transfer, and B will be a pound of mere lines dians, A common massacre horizons lis, squinodialis, lines horsfexts II. Hocperadoin linea meridianaEBF, from BverfusN, let the tangent height be determined dinis pole grad. parts, as di- while it is Tangent elevation of completion nis polei in the parts of the phthyl, dem verfus F, 'tangens elevationsquato- rice48 degree and E will be the center of the clock, F, however, is a pound in the south, through which ex The alignment will give the squinodial AF, ad than from E, the center of the normal clock EK. , he will hesitate on the clock line, five declinate the proper meridian in the plane you, who, if there is no mistake, He will give place to the phthalic tranfire, because of what I am doing his dian reduced to a clock perfty- lum eredum, E centrum tranfeat If por ro to this line of the line from the place C, normal CZ, set up by the sharks, they will give out reds E, perZ, duds the triangle of the gnomon with EZiC, given the declining plane and the fixed line will be drawn EA, through the center E,
A, to be eaten. III. Riitio cal culandi ta bv, Lis. Horograpbia Varia. III. Having prepared them in this way, for a double reason an hour for him; they will be able to inscribe; first in line ho horizontal by tangents: the other by tangent tes hourly differences from noon to squinodftial The former reason has itafe: transfer alocco. ItyliC tangents of the hours io. ii. iz. i. z. turn to the right in a horizontal line tram and the tangents of the lines For if the lines from E pierced horizontal lines impreffa du you will have the clock declining then If, however, it declines to the occasion, it is they must be usurped by the profusdiftant; Fed complement each of them and add they must be exchanged; of which; ciiftantisa instead of Itylus, they turned to the right rum complements have dillantia ver I was on the right, and on the For this reason, however, any book tables to cultivate for the declining clocks he likes his own country, take fic. Table of hourly differences k instead of fty lin horizontal lin ea t H G M' Tangetes H M G Touches
Select from the table arcs of the horizon such a stupid problem. pragma proposed so, the degree of the arcs is reflected in the hours of these, or complements their fub data la protection of the place II. If the clock turns to the rising sun, add the steps of the declining wall to the arch rare afternoons fumrefpexcrit, declining murigradusab you draw the bows of the hours before noon, velipfos arch from the ipfa declination of the wall. Those fcilicet ipfi minors have been here. Of these ad touching the rich, the wealthy bulasredes, as in the preceding table feciffe you see: with this art to whatever place la You will be able to check the status of the tables. Another reason is through tangents of difference of the equinoctial hours, ex it is requested with the help of a file A table of hourly differences from the fljli line in To the right of the lines Horse before at noon
At the end of the line If from point K, where the line kill them on both sides in the squinodlial, refpcclu the end of the tangential hours of the whole ZK, you will have a tranftule, through which from the center E, the lines du&s will complete this rare qusfitum Now the table of hgc fi declined oni lines ftyli from hour z. You will always be added degrees in the south; in hours but have the day of the afternoon two degrees, the tangents of which are in the table reduce it, as you see done here. problem Book of the great art, Cnom. C arsi. Problem V. Hours from noon, and half noBe on the plane inclined to write on the horizon. T The bent wool is double, mouse And so inclined to the horizon petitions The video tableau, whose la horizontal refpon let the steps of the inclined plane reach the horizon theme for the width of the horizon zontale registered, will give inclined to above the horizon; it may not take hours to reheat both sides. If, therefore, any plane were inclined to horizon steps, see on the table founded for the elevation of the Roman pole, in column of inclinations grad. And to him You will find the answer to the number and the latitude of the region where the clock is based will give a horizontal conftru&um inclined to the horizon But this is done bula in this way: Or the equal birth of the plane The issue is the elevation of the pole, either smaller or larger. If equal, the clock will be polar; become mine nor went, fubtrahe inclination from lift that is not to be poled, and to the rest he will give breadth, at the base of the horizontal collision, the defi- inclined If, however, the inclination ma- Co n jorfit by the elevation of the pole, the elevation of the pole from in- the inclination will give a width which a horizontal clock thread. If, therefore, it should be done would you like, whose latitude is the hour of the hour zontale requires, fubtrahe inclination from elevates, polyRom. He will give a shout jetty his quxfitam, that is,
The cow, in which the degrees of the inclined clock are given, I say, whose wet matter is hidden the horizontal plane of the plane is inclined to the given plane. incl. lat. incl. lat. incl. lat. incl. lat. incl. lat. incl. lat. incl. lat. incl. lat.
From which it is clear that the clock is polar one of the inclined. If indeed this polar de it inclines from the circle to the linear axis of the hour reftum, it will be a declining then If, therefore, he had come down from the garden of the fences circle degrees to Ortus, this cafuea the intervals of the lines will remain the same. style also as to the lines the same femper loeu obtains, the hour only changes. Siigitur, to use aflumpfimus, this plane 15-inOrtum gra tranfeunti, not x as in polari, fed ti to bring the hour anticipating bes If he declines to Occafu fifteen How steps, media: linesflyliapponaturnu- mere hors primte, fic confequente If mlli, in- but thirty degrees to the East, or Occa- cima then the tenth, to be attributed to this fertile If the inclined the middle line will be East refpiciensp. Occafum vero fifuque he has declined with difficulty; lines drawn through the center of the thread, next to the bearing plate.
IX If the pole deviates s5 then it will be the mean
a circle hors fext clock line back to the axle polar c&fum.
And from this table in the polar plane a the circle of the barn, the sword, the axis of the world with impolite steps leaning, let me go faster the clock declining, and the fimul inclined can be crushed For if, for example, in He declined to rise, and he approached the middle lines. o'clock. then i. x. q. If indeed Occafus refpexerit, the middle lines in abundance and then &fic de to the rest Who with the easy fint, the further do not require an explanation Horography "various. Problem Hours from noon, and midnight in to define a plane declinating from the horizon. A horology to describe at the horizon declining, nothing else is done, but fub
in the completion of the breadth of the place, fub qua ho the log must be crushed, defcribed deviating from the vertical by as many degrees as de leaning from the horizon it declines by steps; m nia tibi unique fruitful table fynopfi r let's protect
Sub latitude- Horology from Equivalentver- Sub latitude- ne, feu eleva- horizontal de- vertical decl- ne, feu eleva- pole position, tilting, floating, pole position,
Therefore let the propofit be declining from the hour zonte degrees fub width degrees the completion of which is grad. collide report back Therefore, under this elevation of the poles degrees declinating from the vertical grad. it must be crushed, so that you have a turning away from horizon degrees thus declining from the hour about degrees fubRomanalatitudineqz. degree it rests on the whole vertical clock then, that is degrees of declining fub high Tudine grad. Declining again from the hour about degrees fub width requiva- let the clock declinate from the vertical whole then, that is degrees and degrees wide. as the map teaches you. Where in the fourth co We have included all the trees: the fourth for the column shows the numbers given tudinum, the base of which is vertical from the horizon receding from the regal hour should be crushed, so that the widths of the quarter the columns do nothing but complete them the widths of the first column. Who therefore by Problem IV. he knows how to write declining vertically, he also knew the defcri bere declining from the horizon. True when some difference in the elevation triangle meet his pole, and his fat, briefly the whole I will explain the business, so that no one in the curiofiLe- let him be left in the mind of the master. The figure of the problem is therefore repeated IV. And let it decline from the horizon in Oc coffee degrees or Roman latitude to be crushed Decline in shape instead of the vertical smoking is the deviation from horizon gtad. the angle declines of the FRH wall, it is smoked here for a corner the plane receding from the horizon, I will render it below
CD, the point C, be the plane of the north he was, and fpedet to Occafu: verfus D ve ro, fifitfuperius, and let him reflect upon Ort; be ro lower Occafus relpexert, angle the left side of the declination line C D verfus D If, however, he reflects the same Ortus: the same snake the play will be formed on the CD verse C: that well noted. II. In the pound M, not as in vertical angle of elevation poli fufra horizonte, fed com filling each corner although degrees to be prepared it is five, which is the same as three throat NEM, to be inverted it is Hispophytes, in the rest there is none la will be the task of working, from operation in vertical decline of the clock that floated here registration to be used, nift which is recorded vertically here, as he wished to show the hours, ad the primary vertical return according to his inclination to horizon should be applied. The reason is that the hori- I, i zort zArtismagm Book IV. Gom. CmiofsParts they will be declared. Problem VII. in this business of the will must be conceived as vertical proper, others of the circle of polices from the vertical poles recorded from the horizon declinating inltar declinating from the vertical: hence it will be the same from the horizon te, and the registration of those who decline from the vertical: for the vertical circles, whose com munis fedtio is the axis of the horizon, zontem, so fe have the greatest circles po of the lines from the vertical poles of the primary defcr pti, whose common axis is the vertical axis lis elt, to the primary vertical ipfu. But all this is more in the fruitful And those who were inclined, and declined, where-' There is an infinite variety of rum. jO Um? c horology, whose infinite va- rietaseft, because of the multitude of lines lint somewhat tangled; normally the reason of the same conftrures in to those who were born for another reason, that is, through ob- We teach fervency. CHAPTER IV. T)e Spiftpra Cjnomonica, ie T)e mode of conjlruing all kinds of giaperglobum, [eu fpbteram dfoifam in circles coelejles. Problem fs Conjlruere the gnomonic sphere. N Sphasrafolida perfedte give rotun, from being buried in it pundto A, for Polo Bo the accused was described as the greatest circle B, C, D, and so on into three hundred 6o. match I will divide you by clay the parts, and pole A, were written iz. great circles dividing the whole Sphere in equal parts, and these were the circles concurrent schedules in A, polis Mun God What is allowed by the size of the group, fe- also a garden of mihoras and quartas the circles were inscribed in the parts, fedcolor di turn, so that they are more easily distinguished from the clocks, and they were added to the clay circles for an hour rum numbers, etitq; The ball is ready to go. Planted surfaces, (for from them take this instead, we do, with cylindrical fphaeric loops, cones, in which horology they will be divided into three parts. The first, and fimpliciflimafuperficies eftHo- rizontalis, cuiincriptu ipfum clock it is also called horizontal feujacens. The second is the perpendicular which are erected at right angles to the horizon there And this is threefold: or it is erected from the eastern line, which? meridian to an he makes the throats retracted: or he rises from the south line, which eastward to the returnees: or finally, from a certain intermediate line between south and east In the first part it will be described from the second on one side the Southern clock, on the other North? On the other hand, it will be described in a fruitful manner on one side the East, on the other the West. In the third, which is also double: or for it is erected between Meridian and Or then, or between the South and the West: de- they are written declining, either from the South, or from in the north The third is fuperficies, quece not at the corner los redtos raised to the horizon, fed angle some inclination with the horizon he was crushed And this also is threefold. Or the inclination is made in the line of the mere Diana, conjoined to the lowest side of the plain with the eastern line. Or the inclination takes place in the Eastern line, the lower side of the plain joined with noon Either way; the inclination takes place in a certain line in between the Meridian and Eastern For every one of these fuperfactions
the clock is very easy to put together he could be hurt. Since any planafu- the finish becomes part of the largest circle through the center The traveling universe (for the earth's great tudi Various Horographies,
refpedtufpliaera tudinem Solis inftar cen-1 we are fooling around with three or more points) fi in the given you will defcri- the circle will appear immediately with hourly circles. From there the register of clocks smokes it is done just as it is done. In the circle of the South, as far as the left ximus diftindtae, from A pole of the world Boreus shall be considered the completion of the elevation the poles of your place and each inF, &exF, utpolode- The greatest circle of GCH was written, and it will be Zenith; But GCH is your Horizon area you Interfering with his schedule nes fint, G, I, K, L, M, N, C, which they will give di- the horizontal dimensions of the hours of commun from the south line.
zAftronomic horizontal clock to lattud degrees erection from the group of the arc H, A, which is the elevation of the po- Gnomon li of your place, into a plane circle, from B in K, and a line from E the center of the clock to K pro- handle, he will stumble upon the corner to which you are turning The southern line of the world was erected from bet IT Horolabimn Verticale aflronomlcuni ad width degree I pray to the fuperficies of the fertile genus, quaS that is, perpendicular to the horizon there are things, and above all to those which: in Ori ental line is erected, it is written from G, or, at the common intersection of the Meridian, St Horizon by F pundtum vertices, circum- Note about all the asses fertile must e (fe equal cir ass group for here somewhat smaller forces draw a line to escape run Yemen will be given but be liamber pharia from in the same circle of the blind center etc such as repair group of of crippling of whom you first to be warned we married
AD horizontal therefore the clock de- it must be taken down, it must be done on the plane a circle parallel to the horizon, each He becomes the greatest of your group circle This will be done in a circular manner. such a score of degrees on the equator of the globe, St adeamcirdini opening, quaefemidiame- trum gives you some circles, it is written the circle ACBD, from the center E. This circle in four water parts with two diameters ad divide the norm, it will be A, B, the meridian line, But the line of the CD is the hour. Then transfer from the difference of GI, from the group, to the circle in written in plain exB, inF, &exB inG: and the lines from the center E, through F, G traftae, the other eleventh ante-meridiana, al the first hour of the afternoon. Similarly transfer from the group the difference G, K, in eun then the circle from B to H, and from B to I: will be which lines extended from the center E through H&I the other hourly line is ten forenoon nose, but the other hourly fertile afternoons diana It has nothing to do with the rest lines Transferred to the erection of the gnomon
the greatest game of F, C, P, he will reward us I did that forgery. His schedule was about culis interfebhones fint F, QjR, S, T, V, C; which will give the vertical differences of the hours common from the meridian line. At spring therefore the clock must be drawn a circle was drawn again on the plane, maxi with a group of sharks, just as I mouse: it becomes A, C, B, D: and thus into four pairs I will divide it into two diameters according to the norm again line A B, meridian, St CD, ho- tas line Therefore transfer the difference to FO from the group, into the circle recorded in the plane exB inF, inG; and there will be a line from the center of the gnomon E per F duTahora first afternoon: perished0- G, but at eleven o'clock in the afternoon. No stool to be done with the rest of the hours. Instead of erecting a gnomon, it is transferred from the glo bo bow FA, which is the complement of the lift tion pole, exBin K, line exEperK protruding, it will bend the angle to which the axis The south line of the world must be erected. For those fuperficies, which in the south li are erected, Eastern and Occidental, as we have said, the horology will be described: it certainly in those walls, in the plains of the East, or open the West to those who do not see it, so there are things to be done, so that it is futile to make words about them pcrfluumfit Ll IliJ oArtis magtue Book IV. Gnom- Quriofa Farsi.
Horolabimn declining ajlronomic ad hides degrees D thirds of this horizon of the perpendicular fpecies, that from between the middle line between the South and the East they are erected, to be marked by clocks, fci- it is particularly necelTary, as far as ex for example to Occafu, or C)rtum a Me they decline with laughter. Now that you know it, count it there in the circle of the horizon of the group of noftria by its common slaughter with the south no G: indeed I turn to the right, go to Or then; I have finished, go to Occafum to give the plemefitus of the declination, and each in L, for example, and from L, as pole, perF, P is the vertex of the greatest circle FOP, he will be in the group given the fact of fuperfection bearing Interfere with his hourly circles ctions and diflation, F, Y, Z, a, b, c, d, with them in exactly the same way as in this We taught horizontal and vertical, in a circle A, C, B, D, let the clock fall nans, which the figure presents. to raise a nickname, to complain in- first is the line of fubftylari, fuper than it is necessary to raise the ipfum. That line on the horizon viiefigu- zontali, to all the rest of the clocks Me- Ramgiobi ridiem, feu Septentrione direCte apicien gnomomu tj3US is one and the same as the mere line diana But in the declining there From the pole to the circle, which is given in pla whether it matters, the arc of the greatest circle is drawn ipfi the perpendicular circle A, e, and it will be ar cus F, e, diftantia fubftylar from the meridian; A, e, indeed, the quantity of the angle through which the axis the fuper fubftylari must be erected. So in the shape of a declining clock ap- desired, the arc F, e, exB inH, the arc A, e, from B to K, and the line from E in the center by H extended fubftylar; line but from E through K, protracted will give an angle HEK, to which they erect a fuper fubftylari axis there is And for this reason in all planes just as much in declining as inclining tis, and when they decline, you are fubftylaris from me Ridiana diftantia, and the height of the axis is fuper fub It is necessary to investigate the phylum: which I advise here I wanted it not to be repeated here and there. It should be noted, however, that the meridian li in all the falsehoods of the horizon perpendiculars, and also the horizon you, or its uniform perpendicular eff. f. Horoiabius inclined to Horion to hide degrees The fupercies of a certain kind, which to ho They are inclined to the horizon, in this way are defined If the inclination is in the meridian line, no it is earned from the top of F; a waterman indeed verfus, fiipfa fuperficies Meridiem afpexe- laughs but the pole is turned, fi the North (we count the number of rows given by the ramglobe fuperficiei inclination) inclinationlnWMnnl I call the corner, which you will make fuperfect with the horizon he makes) both in f, and from it as the greatest fphacras recorded by the pole the circle B C, h, is the one that reports the data fu I will finish Its killing time if they are transferred to the plane, the same reason lest, we have learned something The gnomon is erected in the meridian line, so as to do with it the matter which helm of the bow A, h H oroiabium to 'vertical primary in inclined adlatitiid degrees but the inclination should be in the East line they must also be numbered from F ver tice, not yet in the meridian, fed in a circle To the East, which the vertical axis they are eager to drive, and both in i and out of i, at the end of the night ri, as a pole, the circle written G, H, is He will be the one who will give you the hours. Subftylaris diftanting from the meridians, which in here it is parallel to the horizon, and gnome the elevation of the gnomon fupra fubftylarem, in it must be drawn through a perpendicular arc Horography 'various'. ;x From the pole to the circle just described iudirm, as we have taught i. Uorolahhm declining, inclined to width degrees Q, in short, let the inclination be in the line quan culus, the largest group of watery circles, and because in this case the lines were in the meridian the greedy is uncertain, it must be defined in the first place mis in a swept circle through its center a line parallel to the horizon, and taking ex globe, arcu 1L (which is the arc, the hour of the circle
the plane of the loggia, between the meridians, intercepted the horizon) it is transferred from the common weight of the intersection of the circle, and the horizon, and there will be a line from the center of the clock is extended at the end, the meridian pla do not go ahead. From this point forward both sides in a circle of translated horary lines a meridian diftantiis, just already early say, the clock will be registered to decline nans, indinatuum, which he had to do. The location of the subftylar lines, and the height of the axis in It must be used first. Bad shape a We omit the beginning of the sculptor: yet it is easy Letor, let this be duly done with the preceding ones he has contributed, he will understand her. From here it was easy It must be said that it is not so unseemly at this hour preparing logs, dividing the time lines to receive ftants from the meridian circle; Fed and from the horizon, or in any circle move in n
"I will give an intermediate point between the Meridian, the largest in the divided group, of numeration; Eastern; then, first of all, the beginning should be made, just that circle, before 1i'. nnAH becomes ft that line of declination, which is made by a strong decline of fuperficia, just what a fool; it is referred to by the circle F, O, P, tquein eaexF, top numbered inclined ion dats fuperficiei ufque inM, exM, in numbers, the circle was carried as a pole we find n, m, p, this will give the li- between fe and a meridian di- you will So that the clock is broken from here, was carried again in the propofit plane CHAPTER V We offer a wide selection of watches of all kinds that are very easy to find. Parafceuafticon I all in the given fuperficia, by a red line it is duly carried away. Also known as Le dor, we at this clock at grad. go tud south central german he said, but I will menfura the group of bows optically in the matter of inner circles, nifiinglobo ma terial, &folio; of which I will tell you first I wanted to warn you not to let us get into trouble to charge the police with dew. Infimmentum ranpnmh} Jive Offertory inflmmentum. The table was repaired, as hourly rate I will call it graphic mouse, made of wood to, or from any place another hard material, leaves and polished, which here that is the letter ABCD, to which on any side E the board part in ro a thin, or square shape worked out. Further, the table ABCD, from the back side in in the center of H, so must be strengthened the fourth group N verfatilem, as a table in every fitum com mode verfaripoflit, &if needed, tro chlea S, to be strengthened at any point; have and two preparations prepared, of which with help in a given plane, and fuperficia, I did quickly delete the lines of the circles you will deny, those things which are made by reason. At E, the prominent part of the board ABCD any of the four hours will be drawn horizontal fciatheric spines, together with by the inference of the celeftian circles (which we impofte archetype we will call rum) or in any other the material was recorded; so in part E standing firm, like the meridian line KE is horizontal to the side of the table AB. which hour El fenced Artu magm Book IV Gnome. CuriofxPart
brings back the fence, becomes normal: for this ho- rolabii opeahud any of the circles we will draw the race on any as it is done. Problem In the five regular bodies to outline the aftronomic hours with one help by reason Let's practice in the leaves for hours nomics, next to which lias any lines of fimili reason you did pla nis incriberepollit Pragmatism I Describing the clock tetrahedron. Therefore let it be first in the tongues of the tetrahedron la to draw a clock with three wheels; fire first of all, the tetrahedron is a flat plane bulls, in such a way that they do not hesitate to be removed from their place, as side one of the sides reda south ref let him strike, the other south line EY, he will make ifogonws on the plane. But in the linguis to the sides of the tetrahedron we return oblique, long, or short, it is the same as the advantage of the side in the Sun ray matter by taking it, it is impressive. Therefore, ex You can put it at any time of the day I give it to the shining Sun, and turning it to and fro
nor the line of the gnomon clock archetype noon, five twelve o'clock he touches chiefly, and at the end lingers in the tongues la the ends of the gnomon you will notice the shadows on the sides ptis to each hour iz near the archetypal pum, for the Sun in the hour the shadow of the Ityls falls on the marked punda. Then the shadow of the archetypal gno- by the verfation of the whole fyftema of the monis, the rest of the hours punda in infuper in with the sides of the tetrahedron, the extreme gno by noting the shadow lis horas, competent hours of the archetypt; And this is the first offering. Again the whole fyftemafciatheri- when (so we call complete tables here with the archetype, and the bodies in which we propose to describe the fciatherica bus, in firm table) so far until the extremes the shadow of the gnomon in the clay of the tropical punda o has fallen into the archetype, and the same theme put the outer edge of the gnomes on the sides you will notice the shadow of the treachery embedded in the tongue what are the hours, the hours of the archetype by writing fpondents; for by punda of one and the same barn in the first, will give the reins eaten in wide find the hours of the tetrahedron you and for this reason in every kind of py-snuffit you branches, tetragons, pentagons, hexa-" gons, to write hours, with no bread from the business you will be able to The tetrahedron is a foliid body m. quatuortriangulisifofleurisrequalibus ter threatened If, therefore, from any material con let four isosceles triangles be made which, as in this figure vi give it will be made of ipfi properly folded between fe body found Pragmatism II. Describing a clock cube. CUbus is the shape of a folidafub fex square (uhis content with sharks If, therefore, the fex qua- becomes ey-quo- project the wires into the plane, as in this figure you see, and cut out the tongue properly between fe con-p0K, if you connect it, it will become a cube, in the sides of which cir you will complete the registrations of the as it is done. With the cube side BF, a vertical plane in Auftrum, and opposite to it in Borea; BG, but the south I did not kill, I opposed I was born in the east the plane of the gods; GE Finally, the horizon such a plane refresh rat: They are described first horology on the sides, fiu- and at every level next to the operations in charge horology used in the teeth fcripferis II. But through obervation, she was prodigious ratio, than in the registration of the tetrahedron We used sciatherica, in small cubes you will complete the horology with three wheels; which a thing, when it becomes clear, does not need an example, Prague Octahedron what's going on, G7' how compose Quality of planes the heart of this pores Those who decahedron how do compo nature Pragraatia III To describe the horological OSiahedron. iX with watery triangles try So it is crushed. Let them be made of matter any leaves often triangular ifopleuraas nm. which, as the figure indicates, with this figure he will fit the sides properly between fe folded odtaedron qusfitum. In this corporefemper one exodus la the ground will be a horizontal plane, the rest indeed, either inclined to the horizon, or away from it declining at the same time. If in a horizontal pla no, one side of the triangle refers to the line me the river, there will be two sides to the East, and Parallel to the west, and declinating from horizon degrees but the rest of the side runts declining from the horizon fimul, in inclined to the same Therefore this body in so you will fit the fixed time table, as one of the sides of the horizontal plane in coincide with the E V meridian line on the map rographic: what you can easily accomplish, be perpen a dicle at the ends of the side fold of springs, and from here in-, from moving until hanger on both sides; me he touched the river EV, After this, you can write it off hours on the clay sides of the odahedron (which You were priu&ftylis, size, 8c capacity They are inferior to the proportionals of the fuperficies tur) that prodigious reason for the archetype of the clock on foot, as we often do to those who do not advance. Pragmatism I V Describe the horological dodecahedron. Odccaedroti figure folida eftfub duo-
ten pentagonal sharks tis contents of equal angles: that so you will Let them meet in some ma the twelve pentagons of the iphopleur des: quos fi rede inter fe give twelve Self" JjrUfTX; heart MHV triple horizon such, no another rule Horograpbia Varia. admits a replan: everything will be fed, or inclined to the horizon, or declining from the same, or declining fimul, and inclined to the horizon. If the pentagon horizon Let such a side be the meridian line; Occafus will be a pentagon tilting westward from the horizon degrees jufqueoppofitum inferior, fuperiori by parallel; the remaining pentagon Zenith three times refficiency will be mifta inclined fimul, and declining from the horizon from Auftro, Bo rea to Ortus, or the verge of Occafu so many step by step, compare the four corners of the pentagon he hands, viz. But the Pentagon is Nadir refficiency, they are inferiorly inclined fimul and declining, from the horizon, from Auftro in Borea, and towards Ortus, or near Occaphus aunt If, however, one side of the pentagon is the horizon such a line; he has had a fextsfit of the hour, that is If he has made the noonday fire, it will be a pentago Was I inclined to reflect on the south? more than degrees and as many opposites and the lower parallel reflecting Borea, but all the rest will be mifta, and or from the South, and Borea to the East, and Occa smoke: either from the horizon, or towards the horizon inclined steps. So the body of the dodecahedron was forbidden? hour graphicse impolito, firmatum, ftylifque It is so unbroken that one side of the pen horizontal line, EV line; at noon on a table, or a line; garden fenced in the same table. After this, the clay fu- I will complete the pentagonal hours with the help of archety pi, the same profuse reason as in the first We have taught pragmatism, infcribes. This in- It should be noted that the smaller the gnomes the more hours they spent in the sea the plane of incribable pofle. Pragmatism V. To describe the icophaedronhorologist. T Cophaedron leaf shape eftfub trian- The equal contents of the gills of the hypopleura: which you will crush in this way. They were described in the ma- triangles in that order, and the beach, on which it appears in the figure; which; slightly start, and fold up drum prop be- OCF then In this cor- ic ofairoK pore, in addition to what is done, horizontally the light is recluse; fWW for they are all or inclined to the lower horizon, or inferior; or deviating from the same nether world ra or worse; or, in short, more futile mifta or inferior: which; all from the primary circle you were a matter of vertical, meridian, and horizon or ZJZ oArtis magna Book IV Gnom- uriofe Parsi. or they decline by or degrees. In this therefore, the hours of the body's tongues fnperficies to inscribe, you were the first to inscribe dumtabulshorographica unpolite, fir- and the mats will be lit up in this way, they will be on the same side guli horizontal meridian line or garden let him lay the fences on the table; ras fmgulis sides dida method arche you can write easily with the help of type. Problem X Irregular bodies to inscribe hours. In a cylindrical column or convex, such as inparal&ipedo, py branch concave, and convex, hours to inscribe Excavated cylinder ABCD in the center of the line instead of the gnomon, use ityl in the exterior fuperficia intruded you will put the tables at graphics; so that it is a line Ityli ipfa meridian touch Then he turned around fyftemate in the tables here to and fro, until the shadow archetypal gnomon many points of the hour He touched the tropics dear marking the same race at the time when the shadow rumextremain both cylinders fuperficia they fall, as happened in those who proceeded. Then he turned the fyftemate again in the ark typo punda hours in the tropics qo, velli in that they cannot be held, li, or any other parallel of the Boreal shade they would be noted, and next to them on both sides points to be noted on the surface of the cylinder; of these for the points are tied to one and the same hour you will have the right answer
the hours of the body given to the fuperficies are recorded the same method in the parallelopiped with a clock, a fire prism, and a pyramid with which you will proceed by drawing the blocks of the sides. .Vi- de-fchemata of prisms, and of pyramids here appofka. Demonstration of the operation of the fad. From this it is clear that no body can be given so irregular that the hours cannot be counted polTint didta method: of which, because fufein we will say to those who are dying, here only bre- We wanted to introduce a new technique. De- and the presentation of this business is very easy elt Since all these bodies are in it then they are fixed on a horizontal plane; image you can't make the sun shine for you, but instead of the whole sun this complex to be moved: with the truth of the movement 5th month shall be next to the hours in the archetype recorded intervals, the same motion he makes shadows in the different planes of bodies, that the rays of the Sun indicate the shadows of the gnomes you throw out flat, motionless strands. For that The sun causes motion in motionless bodies I will finish it, and I will turn to the motionless Sun around the two and fifty shades of the gnomo-nmonjka whether in divers fuperficies the tenor of this is not equal you project the shadow of the archetype into motion. Se- going, fi fyftema is so inclined as a shadow The archetype will run through the tropic at the same time the Sun had the same elevation the table, which, while it is true, the tropic will bring the horizon of the place, in which the clock will be carried. Give the same to be compared with any other. When you there is a shadow of the rest of the scumbags let them move fearfully at the movement of the shadow ar chetypae; Neceftarius, and in all things the same it will be delineated, tropic quickly, fi umbra archetypa25, but parallel Cl, 8c n, !fi um brae archetypes run through the same; Sc The same judgment shall be made to all of you. I said, to a motionless one like the Sun, because the whole this operation must be done during all that time in a momentary space, in which the sun is not how laudably promoted is verifiable; for in the meantime you delay the operation, by mistake Horofeopius does not care about love. And hxc of the clocks by offering fa let them rush by the hundred. CHAPTER Horography yaria CHAPTER VI On the Sciatheric Rule, By whose favor all kinds of horology are conflagrated. Problem XI. Data %egula Sciatherica to inscribe the aflronomic hours given to the plane. Pragmatism I To describe the horizontal aflronomic clock. Rule UCTIS returns to two lines in the center N, fe ad killing the norm of which CD is the equinox lem, but from the south does he report In the fire in the rule of defcr. pta the elevation of the pole corresponding to your region tem intercepted between S and Y transfer from the weight N of the clock, the turn B; and B will be the center of the horizontal clock attached CALES to each of which the number of the warehouse you will add them; for through these pundas from the center the clocks of the B line will give the clock gium obtained horizontally. Rule III Oh, this is the way to set up Tyli. To the muzzle of the Gnomonic triangle, live what is the same it is, the divine line of NB ini, bifariam, and pofitoque in the circle, a circle is drawn, which lines CD, &KM, where N B will meet. Then from N, in the circumference of this circle the fspace between N and punda intercepted at three o'clock or nine o'clock, you see in PQfadus. For if through these things you will bring back two pounds, fecabitillali Neam NB in the pound, which will be the place of the gnome nis, but its height will end in P, or Ch Fadum, then, is what was proposed. Pragmatism II. Vertical clockwise de(registration by rule, JT as pdori in two lines 'A' the meridians, and the equinoctial, I repeat let the same lines AB, CD intersect on both sides of the clock:
Rule Apply the hourly rule I was on the graphic side KBM, four CDs ZOMIWSem ha utPun' while B rules, I pound N ho Let the logi exade refpond: then the rule of this fito ma nente, near the punda hour registered in the rule print punda on CD; gluttony, the elevation of the poles of your country although grad. between S and X, intercepted from N transfer A The rule applied, as before, punda schedule on CD, print; for by these ex A row of lines will give the clock
vertical The place of the style, and the height thus lHvention you will find Between N and A, the leaders of the circle, as fyii. first we did in the horizontal clock, in whose circumference you transfer from N on both sides a space between N, at the third hour, or the interception of the ninth, namely in V, Z for by these means the redoubt will make AN, in O instead of ftyli'quaefito, the length of which will be OZ, velVO Pragmatism III. Clock East West aflronomic defcrihere I. T N on the plane propofito EB line horizontal line, let AB be drawn, GE that completes the angle with the line EB mind the elevation of the pole of your region with let them do the grumbling: with whom other CD to nor mam in where NN be afraid of killing two case and the axis of the world will be CD: equinoctial Artis Magnz Book IV, Cnomes (triofi Tars I. veroEG, AB II. InN, a point applied to the rule juxta the length of the equinoctial line EG, AB, the punctuation marks in equi- Eastern and Western no&ial (for it is one and the same clock, only hours diverfum) juxta numbers in the rule defcrh correpondentia: for by these paraly- They will give the CD duftx the hours of the plane Eastern and Western acquisitions, refe- retquelinea CD line horsfexte, utili the figure appears. III. The place of the gnomon will be in N com fortified at the point of slaughter at five o'clock axis, which, as I said, will refer to the line DC, luMtius quinotial: the height of the gnomon will be the latitude j-gguije, fivefpacium interN, punished at o'clock or o'clock; further hour: infe when the rules will be written down before meridian; , five of the Eastern clock; in and thirdly, the rules are written down in this space ra afternoon belonging to the clock the Occidental Pragmatism IV. To draw a polar clock, I. T In two lines, as in a clock is done horizontally; apply to the subject the throat of the black line ENB, so that B punft of the rule, let N be re-evaluated. Then the judge EB's line, punished by hours you will print; for through these parallels to AB, They will set the clock at noon lare acquired; gnomomslocus eritN, al its strength is the infallibility of the rule, velfpa- Nj. or N9. as on the clock at noon no, it has been given in advance. But, as much as little cis compl&amur; regulaipfa is nothing else, than to polarize a clock; afilnica hora loco ftyli square table ifi horioo- you would erect as high as it is wide gwmpoU- tuc{o rules; he would show them in a fitted rule hours spent From which it is clear that the clock is noon and polar as to the differences of the hours, one thing and strike the same clock, be thou only, ho to use a rare denomination to differ bet the recruit is willing to pay. The position of this watch it will be necessary to polarize the polar plane, so that the line iXiz. let it rest perfectly on the axis of the world, above and below, whether or not the same using a different transfpofition of leaves it is the same as the previous ones. Pragmatism V. To draw an aquinoBial clock. I. TIatin plane any circle inter- J. C. diameters were GO, MN, in four qua carried away by the dragons, and it will be GEO, the line ho- 'rx twelfth, and linea hoare fextae CD. Divide each group into equal parts The vifus will give the watch he got, fi in the pla no given, apply in this way, as iz. let me rest Ridianae: by the gnomonic rule, You will do almost no business in this way. App ca rule at the point S, in the center of the given square no See figure c. z. honest II. Applying the rule in the puneft G punfta hours in the lines HI, KL, con they are printed with dyes; for by this from E the center of the circle a line of two in the circumference semicircles terminating will give a squinotial clock obtained, as fi the mouth teaches; ftylus from the center E, ere&us in it is of a definite size, for it refers to the axis of the world, and he will show the plane for hours the equation is applied, so that line two the top of the meridian line should be exactly the same. Pras- discovery bore all out quantity family Various schedules. iPragmatia VI. Declining afironomic clock k Ver tical to define
TQ Uftis two lines to the corner 3iJ? slaying them in fear, AB, titudinum for the horizontal cross bring in line EF j from E verfus V, traCiifque from the 5th center of the horizontal horizontal lines hidden in the GH line carefully turj where they will kill the DC line. The intercepted width of the place ex fcala latitudes for vertical hours in the line SX transfers the rules from E to the line EA The vertical, inpun&um A, which will be cen vertical clock tower; for from this, be per hour marked on the CD line re- You will draw grass, you will have a vertical clock tens of thousands The demonstration of the matter is so easy it is, as for each one, velexipfa conftru&ione to open the door. V. Line hour; the girdle is drawn thus: Ad pun&um V center of the clock horizon the normal case is drawn V6; where is hscli he has made CD, through that punishment from A a double line will give a fixed hour. yi. The location and height of the gnomon And thus you will find the line of the thread. It is taken from V adCD, normal VN, for through N from A, the arc drawn will give a line phtyli z To the line of the phthyl through N, reftaMP nor wrongly drawn will give an aquinophtial in ho the clock declining; in this line of sharks Let N V be taken, apparently NM, from anywhere PartelinesMP will give you what you want from A perM, the axis of the world is refracted; NAM the angle of elevation of the north pole while declining the plane. To the axis of the world from N two normals NR, the squatter's half-diameter, from at the point R, to the line of the phthyl again normal drawn, will give the length of the gnomon, qusmeridiana, CD, qus common the intersection of the horizontal plane, and the plane will refer to the declining II. Let the declination of the wall be accepted in which bearing the right SD, become a wall from the south Occafum: in the quadrant ver6fmiftroSC, fi He declined in the East plane So let it be pious Yr whether declining z o. degree in Occafu, du cta from the center E line EF, peno. degree who will refer to the line of mere diana, to what other normal at point E is drawn, which becomes GH. III. In this line GH applied rule im the pundta ho are preferred rare When this was done intercepted in Regu the latitude of the place in three S, Y, from fcala la- right place in S; through which the pundtum is parallel to the line CD will give a horizontal line clock Declining, therefore, we write which was prophesied. Pragmatism VII. An afironomic clock inclined from to finish First of all, this plane is twofold to have a fpeft Or whether the throat of the inclination towards Borea: velin Auftrum If the angle of the plane with ho on the horizon the sharks have been approaching Bprea at the angle of elevation of the pole, it will be a clock the inclined plane is the same as the clock lare Siverus corner turning towards the North squelched at the completion of the height po li, five of the height of the squatter, will be a horolo the same thing as a clock squinosftial A fruitful note: If the plane is higher than the par reflecting thee Auftrum Zenith, minor. had an inclination at the height of the pole: futraft the degrees of inclination, will remain the height of the polyflufraplane, near which ho it must be drawn horizontally, so that you have the watch is tilted. For example, in inclines some plane degrees, in which the clock must be checked; futradlis therefore a the elevation of the Roman pole twelve remain. So if the clock you will defcripfer to the width of iz. degree have twice the clock on a given inclined plane ptum; but the inclination of the height nempoli, which becomes for example grad. off asqz. a the rest will give breadth m m z region eArtis magna Book IV Gnome Kuriofa Parsi of the region, live the elevation of the pole degrees, but the inclination is greater with the elevation of the follower to which the horizontal clock was defcri-, must be added the height of the follower com he will give the obtained plane to Zeplemertto the height of the inclination of Siverus, and nith, and bore Borea, and the height of the Pole, near which the Horolo- the quadrilateral has a smaller inclination, the horizontal line will give the quadrilateral add to the inclination the height of the pole, and conflate it. But this is clear from previous fates
it will be the height of the pole, near which the clock is placed. a horizontal register will give the result. Yes PART II. CHRONOGRAPHY VARIOUS. . C A P U T I HorographiaTdabjlouico-Italica, of clocks from Ortu, Occafu decribing. Problem Horology of every kind from the beginning, and I stopped writing. Pragmatism I To write down the horizontal clock from sunrise and sunset. U C TIS two lines t meri diana, acquinoitia AB, CD, to be used horizontally, and applied rule of thumb the old CD, the hours are printed, as a waste Apply the rule to the left line EF hours, hereafter, as a punishment rse in the rule marked out refpondeat From the center of the clock. This note is ready, where the point of the fifth hour in the rule will make li neam AE, there print the punishment. Then point fuo rule apply fupra pun- river A, feu the center of the clock, so that it Punishment at o'clock the same rule according to the punishment of the hour im first punished in line horse harnessed, live AE. Again, the app allowed the horse to be punished loi, fupra A, in the same line near pun so the horse print the punishment; and weep by promoting in the rule of half-hours punitis, fupra A in retrograde order for walking, and impreffing the punishment of the horse next to the punishment of whole hours in the line EA, you will have been punished by Ortu and Occafu to delineate the hours For if punitumhora quintg aftronomic insequi- noitiali, punished E quintse in the horse line slime care hours phlonomic, the middle of which EF line hour efl; the rest an hour from F zrer- was B before me saw k B verfus He earns money. fextse, live AE reita conjoined; will give you reita two hours from Occafu. If true punished fixed in sequins, the line of horse fexrce, conjoined reita, will give that hour from Occafu; li you will have and so on to each unit will give a fumper hour from Occafu Hence, by repeating the same punishments fi conjugates with hours in to the sequomoitial refpondents, viz. I am Various horographies. when they; with me; with with with You will have the hours recorded by Occafu: ho ram ii. will give a line between the lequinodial but only the rest of the hour o. be led In this watch, a little poetry will be said. Drawing of the hours from sunrise. If the hours from Ortu inscribe the same let everything be transferred by the hour rum in line AE fixed from A verfus Falte-. ram side lined hours tied together with du- hit the fold for hours. For if the pound well when you are joined, she will give you an hour. from Ortu: fi you will have abOrtu. Sip. you shall have you shall deal with the rest, as in the proceeding ctefcription of the hours from Oc- it will be o'clock for both clocks munis: If indeed the hour was defied by Occafu inline AF, with a fifth pound? in asquinodial, she nor will he give the appointed hour: be the tenth from Occafu; to join in the line AF with in the equinoctial, it will give the propofitum; fic you will be decimated You will hold the opposite account, fi hor? abOrtu, and fruitful fintinfcribend? . Demonstration from ipfa con- intrudionepatet; the center of the clock, gno mon, and every place, in the manner in which in the aphronomic clock you will die Pragmatism II. In the vertical plane the hours aborted, and I fell asleep write AB, &CD the meridian lines, quinodial, as before, applied to the rule la in gquinodiali CD, defcribes aftrono- just a flash of light, fed the middle hours; each from the center A per fungula punda in CD wooden lines hidden, see where ill$ the horizontal line lem EF (almost to the asquinodial CD parallel drawn through the center of the gnomon) they will kill: there print the punda numbers as is evident in the figure. Of these a perfect taboo the hours from Occafu will begin at I grant this incriminating pardon. For when inter- the faiths of the hours from Occafu be made in qui- nodal, horizontal line; Hor from the rise.
jn I2 j Hor ab occafu.
Hor aftr. in the hour
j IO jio II Ili. Qugrein Table hour from Occafu and see what the hours are in the quinodial, and the hour zontali EF she will make: find and make aftronomica in aJquinodiali, i-in ho rizontali: for along these lines redu duda he will give the hour So line two give per hour in the equinoctial, in ho horizontal, will give the hour from Occafu: fic of leading the hours of the camp, the same, as the board will teach you, the judgment will be. Inscribe the hours from Ortu to the same, fi du- while the lines from the opposite side of the line Umia- rizontalis AE, with hours in requinodial inCutum you have boiled. For there is nothing else mc Babylonian clock, snow clock Inverted Italian; to whom the hours from Ortus ap if you paint, you will have a Babylonian. If so from the center of the gnomon to both sides in the line ho horizontal transfer punda hours from Occafu, ha: c with pundis in Squinodial They will give it to the correpondents ras ab Ortu The matter is not without difficulty He has to agree with the tables of this kind The rum method, to use of the fruits, Videirt Theorem fol. Pragmatism III. Hours from occafu in the vertical plane such, to paint the meridian equidistant plane. It was written in the first Aftron clock. Eastern micus near Pragmatium M m III. prs Artu magm Book IV Gnome Curiofa P art III. proceeding with the problem, together with me in divine hours, in which the horizontal line becomes EF, locus of gnomon I, equinodial CD, line hours five axis of the world AB, in which hours ab Occafu, by this art, inscribes, from the hour of the 9th by walking See what hours this transit takes, you will find in the table tranfire by inoqui- nodal, in the horizontal: for by this fu, hour xo leaders by in the equinoctial, in the horizontal, fic of the order of the cotes hours Hour instead of the gnomon to the horizontal line decribe the arc ZV, in which the fpacio arc ZB from the horizon to the hour line with a double belt; for at the end of the double arch and through the center of the gnomon, let VX be drawn the pundareda duda will give the hour from Occa- xeris, that hour will be the quofita; fty will be a game WEST EAST as great as the height of the ruler, the velocity between the hour and I killed all the tones of the Eastern Italian watches in the tecino$ialiy line linea horizontalifiye linea they happen Italian hour.
Horo in the equinodial. J
Horo in the horizontal, fiveline.
Pragmatism IV. loras'ah occafu in the south plane dental outline XIId. Lld. lll 1JLA they were written on a propofite plane; and AB becomes ds; Q FE horizon, place of lomon, and of the same hour go with the halves in the equinodial, and line noro contingent) duly noted. At the first hour t you will carry the line thus; quadrant from the hori- defmptf line zontisperT, was carried; in which ST, double in the arc SM, will be a line through M, and the 5th place of the gnomon was marked by the line MN, ho ro quofita. The remaining hours from the Table I will begin writing at p. m I give Italian hour
z3 mI five from Occafu At the aftronomic hour I2 I f
in the equinodial line. At the aftronomic hour
on line at See on the table, during which hours micas tranfeat hour find in oquinodial on the line at per for he will give these red lines at o'clock. Hour is taken by inlineaCD, per. in MN. is taken by inCD, by in N
lead Horograpbia 'various'. ducaturper2. inCD, &per4. inNM. . H. For the foundation of the clock you defcribes it is drawn through, in CD, Sc by 4I in two lines, a quick line at and NM iS. fempererit parallel requinoftial C D, and should be led by a common punff line horre delinere horre tertis aftronomiCas, and I would have ho the Western calendar. style each place, and the quantity, according to teeth Pragmatism V. Hours from sunrise in the same meridian plane write down OI in the meridian plane defcripferishoro- You will have a Western Italian loggia Eastern Babylonian clock; in the meridian plane
tforoiogiumVLm Eastern Italian, you will have Babyloni- Babylon and the West: the difference will be so much diZ]Zno. 'in hours; For the Eastern Babylonian pri ma poft24 line refers to the hour, &ficde cSteris: in the West the last veto here Ro- mseritif. everything else is the same. Ho we therefore ras from Ortu, Occafuinfcripfim quOd was propofit. Pragmatism VI. Polar clock in the polar plane, ftVe cir to write down every hour of the day. The clock is set to the polar opposite nomic with the middle hours, according to the matter guls handed down in the proceedings, two and two bus lines AB, SN, inG, at right angles fe killing
this clothing; the line of the barn is produced nine times in the direction of T, and from the warehouse ffo the quadrant S T. If therefore by they count the term of the elevation of the pole aT do, through the center of the quadrant I will refresh xeris, it will make the line AB, in the point X, the edges by which to AB, normal du&a CD, da. -ducaM bit hour If hour five horizon If you trust such, transfer GX, fpacium from G, vertices A, in Y, through which parallel to SN, dufta will give fever. Or set it up adIX, a line from punffo9. normal, this for where AB has made a line, through that point then quickly V, parallel to SN, give two bit RQ, hot line five horizon such Further hours from Occafu in the given polar you will bring down the plane through the fertile table this art It is used as a warehouse line from Occafu ha- Italian Bab.
led by by hours or by ho- Italian hour horas afirono- aftronomi- al, ras afirono- cx, micas in line icas in line g inii- bylon
S aquinodial. horizontal. i.
beas, leaders j according to the table line by. in asquino&iali, by in the horizontal, five linea horre or even through linea ho rae and you will have a warehouse line So for at leaders line through in? quino- ftiali, by in the horizontal, or5. in linea horre and you will have fever. But that in this order he fashioned the lines of the hours this bula is by far the easiest benefit you write Style five gnomon will be the same size. yes how much space is there between the place of the gnome nis G, and the o'clock or o'clock line
A Babylonian clock with prophus the same thing happens with the Italian, only inverting the ra having a session in the fit, hours; that's why I am an idle fugitive, in the matter of no one's trust to waste time explaining the culture. Enough Therefore, the figure here is supported by both ra to make a clear statement Prague ICO zArtis great iMerW. Curiofe Part Ptagfnatia VII. In the water plane parallel to the abortion hours, Occafu to define Of Ujufmodi hours defcriptio, with "It is by far the easiest to make it shorter we will also prepare I. An equinoctial clock is described aftronomical according to Pragmatium V, it will be that line garden i z CD; horaefextteBA II. Let the rest of the hours be equal when they have finished: when I have done this, I will go through the lingulas hours in that pound, where they make the circle, to the circle, you will have tangents drawn both Italian watches, &Baby- lonic expedient: touching MZ, it refers the horizon, the hours are written on that account. what do you see here? The length of the style is so will be found: from C point where the meridian they make a horizontal fe, the arch is broken EXN, in which starting from N, will be counted completion of the height of the pole grad. For if by the term of this degree EXC you will draw a line, it will make a line tas in pounds, the limit of the height of Ityl with the help of Therefore, the quantity of the gnomon in N will be the center of the normal beam. You'll also find style in this outfit. With the error of the fculptor arch EXN, in the figure He becomes oblivious, with no intention about it The quantity of Ityl is better with this declaration I wanted to put it in front of my eyes more clearly mouse At the angle C, in the pound common intercession with me horizontal and vertical the corner of the com of the elevation of the pole for example Rome gra two; For the line CB, di- while the angle at C, with li nea CN, conftituensfecanf- that the line NB, in B, afilgna bit NB, quantity, five al
the state of Itylus obtained; and the triangle will be a gnome no one was given a plane NB C. The quantity therefore of Ityl eritlinea NB, the same place N, in which normal; NB, five NA, semidiameter of the circle they appear in the ymnium femper even the most important. Pragmatism VIII. Given a plane deviating from the vertical primary to draw an Italian clock in it. "He hails the first aftronomic clock in the dido plane by Pragmatia VI. together with the middle hours. If for the help of the table in Pragmatism II. of this problem tx, by any two pundas, by which in as- quinodial, and on the horizon a garden from Occafu they will pass, you will lead the reins; you will have Italian the clock was found. What are you killing? nes with common fint at all hours of phtronomics on any plane of destruction If you don't need it, you will be able to do it with the help of the board, with almost no help they decline to write business of all kinds tia, inclining, inclined, from these mqtta. CHAPTER different schedule CHAPTER II. Of the Planetary Hours, jhe in thee such as in the datum flat address Problem Unequal hours, five ancient, [eu planetary, in the given draw a plane Pragmatism I Let a horizontal plane be given. I juxta Pragmatium III Geo gnomonic graphs, XYpa rallelum hours defcri- pferisin horizontal clock aftronom co, you will have uneven hours with the help of the table fe- hot, than at half-hours mouse, for this reason. The hours are late. IU fi vi
ici J XIIi Uneven hours. i i m IV v. fi l From the hour of uneven, which femmer with Aflrcnomic coincides with the operation to rise So the fifth hour country, see where the mica of the io2- will make parallel lelum XY, of the hour pound, and hour unequal, or
aftronomica in archinodial You will have an hour to bring it back I would be happy. Thus by affront mica in the place where it is parallel he makes a light of hours, &per IV. unequal in squinodia li (for they are, as in the figure appa ret, in the second half of the hour such as live aftrono mica pro- I was the same j or even by i o. aftronomic report You will have a quarter of an hour such as, not faeces with others you will proceed Until the first inte gras, then also half ho you have prepared a shave; gnomonic the same triangle in all it is with the previous ones. But if anyone finds it difficult to put it on parallel to the hour will be able to use the method. Another method. lat circle in transparent material, which J? divide from the table of fol. through datlTin clta in the arc of the smallest day of the whole year; become sqdibtis that the arch of the day A3 five of the smallest god DNE, the arch of the five greatest day ANB: divide the rest into equal parts, so, however, that they are divided to each to avoid the confusion of one's own, as it appears. With the help of this circle, together with the center rule O his affixes, thus the unequal hours defcri- bes Register first on the clock horizon such aftronomic together with the tropics, trian gnomonic throat just a little bit of dust in the equinox the dial is impreft, as it appears. After this, apply the center of the circle to the movable ruler No, no Artu magna Book IV Gnomes why joke. Tarsus II. draw the meridian line, so that it is tan then removed from the squinoitial, quanta is the line CB, that is, in the line D G me laughing out loud, how The circle is clear. Let it be therefore at o'clock uneven in the tropics to be written, apply rule an hour arch of the day DNE, see where she went when quinodtial will kill: by this therefore inter- point of departure from the center of the 5th clock wire extenfumfecabittropicumqo inpun- I stand; by which he was punished, and punished fifthly unequal, five hours xn equinoctial he will give the fifth hour in two days. Oar or again the rule of the fourth hour a. rcusDNE, known ubifecetur equator: per for this from the center of the clock wire ex- tenfum will make a tropicumqo in point, by that, &perq. . unequal, five aftro- nomicamin will give equatorial straight lines the fourth hour is uneven; fic work ris in the remaining hours, until the middle bow
you will wash off; for I found the hours punished cross the other half of the arch wide, they will give unequal hours in the tropics afternoon Again he is sent down to hell hour in the sharks the Sun is confounded in SS; move the horg rule arch daily ANB, and note where the archinoitial rule will make, per this was punished, and by the center of the clock reita duita, beyond the center, tropical 23'fe it fits on the point that hors aftronomi-. cae five unequal in xquator conjun- and he will give the hour Pari ra You will bring down the foreign order hours. De- see the demonstration of this in Protheoria III. Pragmatism II. In the 'Vertical' plane the propoft hours to define TIat first vertical aftro- you only cut out the nomic lines of the image then, together with the parallel of the 6th hour, which it is the same with the parallel of the hour; the tropics you have described If you want to explain it, you will bear it on this plane hours, the ancients in the same profuse manner as in the previous ones. At first, indeed, he was suspicious tablex in this Pragmatia propofitx. Then of a circle with a ruler whose center is tan then diverges from the archinoitial point C, what is the line CB of the gnomonic triangle vertical, namely, in O punito, St line MON of the circle coincides with the meridian line, five unworthy Then work as in preceding, St. you're tired pragma Bcrographia "varia, a Pragmatism III Inflation at noon fcrihere first you eat by the aftronomic clock parallel hours of incripfer, you will have fubfidio sa- bukefequent points of slaughter at the hour rum m equinoctial, parallel hour rum through which they will give hours quxfftas The horizon on the clock is DR, arc Hours later. j IIIJ 4rj j j j xof j if J j 4I j J j i jHoare inceq. XIIJ I j II f III j IV j V VI J VII JVIIIj IX j X XI XII or hours, XY, quemfccanthorre aftronomic In the rest there is no method working different from the previous ones. If you to work through the circle s so it you will apply Its center is only made from equinoftial removed in the line of honor aftronomically, what is the height of the flower, and MN becomes parallel to the equator! ; and it will be a circle Western: Onentsaet established to work Come on therefore, as in the former, have twice obtained; fed figure you me He will teach everything. Pragmatism IV. In the polar plane the same thing is thrown down. iO Um polar clock then it is done with the meridian, fig so much, and let it differ by hours; no there is also a different account of it to line Why those of the south by the clock He took it, I can't doubt it here three times. daonisfola figure Pragmatism V. In the squinobli plane ali hours imrpmhs de- fcrihere XT Ihil is easier than in qnino&iali bring down the hours on the plane Yes therefore to work: Divide the arc no&urnum AHB in parts sharks; again with CFD in as many parts as les: for perpurfta in each bow ta reed dudfog will give the lines of the anti- No. qua- CHAPTER IX Another account of the Italic-Dabylonian Horolabiomm. Problem Hours from Ortus, I sat down, to inscribe the planofumma with ease to any one given. Pragmatism f. To confirm the organ, by the grace of which the hour from the rising, and the occafu diSlo were more rapidly inscribed. The first circle is drawn! NE, or ND, and let the line AB be drawn. Third MANB, the line, feu the diameter MN tio, beginning at aB divides the whole circle I would be rich. Second from M! BMAN in equal parts, circle whether it was on either side of the arch of the femur; the same from E, beginning in the same number of parts, ,um from the Table proper in the first Pro-; as the figure teaches. By which ex cenrroO, re: vmnafmate propofita, for example, here you give guides, or instead of rules Loms x grad. minutes and through And the circle is made on a thin piece of paper un5la DE, terminating the arc of the day or any other transparent material: veiiiregu- a line is drawn from DE, and it is divided by the arcusin i lafit attached, proftus excifus; only with bracelets
iuofegmenta, diurnum, nodurnum, So- adregula fuftentanda rclidtis: he will from in Again it is transferred from that prepared d, on both sides the diurnal arc Io, that is Efi: the arc.
Artu magm Book IV the merits of tiquas. Moreover, let the bow be days long whether AVB again in parts, arch trp CSD divided into the same amount, you will have pun- Cta, through which the reClaes will guide the hours of the anti which you have obtained. vAltcer. parallel hours decrypter, which, when the circle is in the equinoctial plane Gnome Curio fi? arsl. it is done; its registration will also be easy, by the Table in the preceding polished you've been there, the lines will come out again rare find; n. However, please note here the hours of the DSG the criptas were boiling in the lower plane of the equinoxes li; but the hours in the arc CFD, registered, in inferior to the equinoctial plane, where, however, the horg they will boil the inverse order. Horography "Varia. rare from the south, and the middle node correfpon- they will give hours with clenched teeth from Occa- fu, whose inverted clock of Babylon when it is In what place put for z. And you will be killed with a sword. Note, however, in this place: be the point of the hours in the tropic to have delideres, counting of hours from pound B by MADNE in- ft. tue. same effect. But if you cheated the pundta hours in the tropic -jo, the same numbering from organ in- perBMADN inliituenda. ipfe circle flt is to be protected. -v-pus 0{tends. So you see the rule of thumb Pragmatism. II. rpato the gnomonic triangle, the tropics, and with water, by the grace of Organi conjirucd, Italian hours rhplano horizontal de- Jcnbeit. It was first written in the horizontal plane zontaii triangle gnomon with the two tropics together with the equinoctial at what time from noon, and the middle nodepiinus is impressed; Then "applipellucidusiliecirculusho" less often, a jinea prepared a little earlier fua MN i ta m cr i d i an A B, u t ce n t r u m organs from a pound of sequinodiai juxta semidiameter size dialysis triangulo gnomonic di liet In the organ also the line BA, yel-DE, circle into two Roofs of the newspaper, k nodorn's bow of the greatest day flying there parallel to the aqueduct, finally li nea NM. meridianae cong. ua This perado, videubilinehorariinpei-, the luftri circle, or the rule of the four hours polished punda, from the center of the dudag circle The CD is a quinodial clock. For if through these pundas, from the center ho as the leader of the rologi thread, he will make the trope when in points, which with pundisho- pounds of fupra a weight through which a wire is drawn from the center A whereas, it will produce a tropical in by this enimpundurrt, &per iz aftronomic matter da duda will give the line at such as But as for Teias, with whom do I go? rare from the south, and the middle node, in the asqui- the knots must be joined by the weight of the hours found by OccaTu in the tropics: you trust this file, which in the rule fciathe- We are rich. squinodialisdiftet, how much is the remedy three equinoctial in the gnomonic triangle. No. circles Hof Ital. in trop. 3z2jzilzol ii ro I I I f f I I Pragmatism III. Given the gnomonic triangle, the tropics, the fourth e; hours from Ortu, Occafu in flat ver tical, to infer the preceding Organ. O Iat in the vertical plane the triangle gno- vertical plane while; and the plane of the tropics also becomes azquatore pundifque hours aftronomi- expensive wood; utpriiis After this ap the transparent circle is folded into equal parts divided parts, according to the line MN, line: me Ridiana: so appropriate that its center is tan then in the same meridian line Artis MagmUb&rIV. And when I divide the circle, the beginning of the hours ca-' pietaputtdo A, than the division of folain- you will obtain a circle, let it be so that B comes instead of A, E instead of D. I will also do this, ob- where the time lines will cross the aquino dial For on top of these pundas, &fuper the center of the clock is a polished rule, or wire from the same brought forth by the tropic dabitin as punda, which with the points of the hours aftro- nomics found in the aquinodial con- They will give several hours from Ortu and Occafu.
If, however, the numbering of the hours was not established It runs from A near the point MBEN. By numbering from D, next to punda A, M, B, E, N, D, inftituta, hours from the center circle of dead you will be presented with a nodial; through these from the center hour They will make a logi reed, or a long wire tropic qo in points, which with the puns hours in the equinoctial in opposite lines cta will give the hours from Occafu, Ortu. In clock Borealitropicus qo fiettropicus and the horizon became red will give the Boreal clock. The pragmatism of IY. Given the tropics, water, Italian hours to defcrile the inplane polar T} One transparent circular circle you will apply south AB, ho I was a tropical watchman and a waterman. thus, as from the water-clock, it only lacks O center of the organ in the meridian, how much elt the height of the thread, and then to work in this way. From A verfus M numbering infattied, see where the line of the circle, or the rule of the hour rum pofica will make equinoctial: to this nor will normal punctures be made tro- Western Gnom: (jmofk Tars I a peak of pounds, through which the line of hours They are to be led by the Italians. Count it seriously the inftituas aD verfus M, fecabitura- quinodial SN in points, to which norm les dudas will make a tropical in points, which with aftronomic hours in aquinodia If they are joined again, they will give the same hours. Pragmatism V. Given the tropics, (the equator, the gnome triangle nico, Italian hours in the Meridian plane as well Eastern as well as Western. One meridian plane horographi- the shaft becomes the same as that which is made in the plane polar, the same operation was also used he will give the same which in that Yes for the polar plane should be so fixed as to be aquino- the dial is made in the fuo plane. exalted degree this fitupa to the horizontal line draw the rallela through the center of the gnomon tur, horizontal fcilicet, fivehorazq. give they will finish the line hours from Occafu quality zz and fic of cateri Be it true that this labor slows you down; ORIENTAL We taught the hourly circle of the Organ on both planes, with the teeth, that is to say, by offering them in the square which the figure shows you: where the line of the circle CD is the equator on both sides I have done this, too, and you will work as if they were made in the square. H orographia yaria. will make the normal drawings a peak of or qoin points, through which; transfer bunt horte Italiane', next to the notice board a tooth Note, however, that this is for points in the trope co counting the hours in the circle to float from point C, verfusN, in the east such For those punished in the tropic Qo from E. verfus N, in the same eastern clock. In you will have the punishment of the western tropic fi nu the earning of hours inftkuasaD, verfus B; and the tropics, which fi you counted from B, verfusN Look at the figure, that will teach you everything better. than I can express in many words end Problem Ancient hours, jheimquales, in the given place no, you are organically inferior. organ maker
And the same circle a little before the divi- was cut along the line-AB into two pieces the arc of the day, and of the greatest day of the night, become that daily bow ANB night, five of the smallest day of the day, yidelicet qo DNE, quo rum both in ii. equal parts of the god des from A, beginning with verfus N, ducefque through the points of division in both arcs you give from the center of the circle. Well, and that's it you will work with a confusio, fi lines through the points bows drawn from them with rich colors where are they brought to? beasts; and you will have a perfect result with the help of which you will very easily bring down the remaining hours as it is done. Pragphlatia I In the fifth gnomonic triangle, the tropics, Quator, on the polar plane Ancient Hours to bring Eliminating the two tropics, &squino- dial together with the hourly points in da to the plane you will apply the organ of the divided circle on the meridian side, as the center of a circle at such a distance from the equinoctial distance it becomes what is the interval between i and z. p. five3. an hour in: rquincctial: AB vero quidiflet to the equator. Then look around hours by the center of the equinoctial
one hundred for the normal ones secretly dudse him they will make a tropical in pundi, when at what hour from noon, and in the middle no of the equinoxes will give the hours ancient achievements. For the meridian plane you will work in the same way tion, which in Pragmatiaj. for We have worked on problems. To be more successful proceed, here and on both sides, so east, than the western clock, I put the figure I didn't take anything. For if the points of the hours for If you trust in tropic you will count from the points A, verfus N. If veropunCta pro tropico qo, from D, verfus N, will be replaced, as shown in the figure: and to be noted in the equinoctial clock TerfeCtiones, for by these norms duCtce They will breed in the tropics, like the King. conjunct eArtis mapt Liber ljA. Omm. court Vars You will work on the declining and the inclined in the same manner as in the aftron he prefers the declining and inclined the best The conjunfta will give the hours obtained. Circus and the game must have a beach in both which the figure demonstrates. For the level It is also mentioned in the prefaces. Western: I'm sorry Pragmatism II. Carry the same in a horizontal plane. "They bow first in the plane of any horizontal trian- the gnomonic throat of the tropical sea, and the follower, as in the former pragmatism is dhftum. After this, ap fold the organ to divide the line of the circle? meridian? , as before; viz. , as the diftant of the center of the circle from it becomes as great as CB, the semidiameter of the secinodialisin with the gnomonic triangle, NM dicftae meridians con crane Hoccera&o: fipun&a tropici ss fideres, nu- rneration from A verfusN, inftituta, see where the line? oh they will be drawn from the circumference through the center srquinophtial; for through these the wire from the center of the Jtolog i dufhim fecabit tropical So in punitis, which i i puncftjghoras in squinodtial conjunct da- r lines of unequal hours, whose hour is fixed iz. aftronomics If true points hours in the tropics, at the beginning of the hours buttock from D, verfus N, see where the line is? from this arc through the center of the two will be equal; for through these things punfta from the 5th center of the clock two wires in tro the peak will give punfta, which with punfts in the tropics they will give the ancient hours when they are found together: which, be you have been well worked, all fe must kill in equinoctial points. Pragmatics III, Ancient Hours in a vertical plane. N in the vertical, tropical, $quator, trian plane of the clock gul fuo gnomonic intrudi, organu horographu meri- dianf the plane, those clothes are applied, so that its center is so large CUf differs from the quinodial, how much is CD, the equidiameter dtial in the gnomonic triangle, and the meridian corresponds to MN, as before. I finish this, the beginning of the unmering hours in circles fado from B verfus N, for pundis S3; from D verfus N, pra for the shameless circle was set against this clock to him, which he has in the horizontal, as-figure obeys. O bferva. u bi line the horary lines will make the asquinoitial: per for hxc was punished from the center of the clock wire will make the tropic, qo in punites which you punish for the hours from noon and midday at night in asquinoitial clock, conjunct they will give the old hours on the given plane. Pragmatism IV. The same mechanical defcrifer. Finally, the obfervatorium v-'chap. If you wish to use it, write it down ras from the rising, and setting, burning and planetary ad archetype of the clock in any data on a suitable plane, to be used in the aforesaid chapter it is Appendix Whether Terminating the Wonderful Artifice of hours A Periam here in the colophon in a wonderful place given the case, the artist's hours to be terminated a situation in which nothing is more beautiful, easier, and It will be more difficult to think of this type of thinking I believe, for it is of all kinds, who I have never been found to do what I did they are, and we are universal, and we are refined, and it can be varied in an infinite number of ways I have no doubt about it, I am grateful to the talents of the Tagabians mere daughters of finding an opportunity to pras- we will drink This discovery escapes us gefficpropofitioy book Aftrolabii Clavius whether whether where
gax Lector machine noftra sling he will find mints; Whose demonstrative I find the author P. Grienberge rum from which Cia is alive, several other things take refuge You have been cleverly demonstrated in the works. We are left with a demonstration, which LeAor he will be able to see it in the cited place, only in vain We will publish our findings here. The truth is not so let's proceed with the linguistic discovery We hatch a thing from an egg, so to speak. PropofitiO I Given the punishment of any parallel of the Sun in at any hour notified, the dates of the rest end of hours by idpun I am finding endless ways. Q Int first punished by the parallels of the Sun given in line hor? iz. clocks; what? indeed from the analemma fol. You will find it easy to register with this clothing, du are they sung in a kind of flat fuperficio du? li don't you? to the backs of the slayer AB, C D whose AB meridian, CD? quinodia- defines the issue; from the analemma Let AB form the gnomonic triangle horizontal, of which A is the center of the circle B is the quinodial meridian point; D, locusftyliejufque quantityDV, pro- and the two rays of the fourth VB, around him on both sides of the rays from V, proceeding from li don't you? , this is the declination of the trees of the Zodiac lest they should be described from the cited analemma, where for here the ray of the zodiac is a mere line he will make a diana, there will be punda paralle lorum Solis in the meridian, live afflicted. With the help of these points, the remaining hours are set We will conclude by relying, as we have said, on methods: for neither in our art can he the registration of rare lines is another matter it is said, a snowman with some dpund where it was finished some hour, and the punda went down quinodial through which? then hor? whole? with some of them missing parts of the hours they approach For the termination of all Qua full hours are required. ?qumottials as well as whole hours, tegraum then the femihours, or the hair of one of any rare, and a quarter of a pound, and fine for the termination of the quarter punished in a half-quadrant, or a single falcon of them there is a necephalium, as from those who lie down it will be clear If, therefore, from the foundation, for example, in It becomes forbidden to be punished at noon F, so from it we shall find the rest punished in for other time lines as well for cancer, than for a capricorn. The rule applies to the punished F, and to the lingula punished by the hour rum, and found half-hours in quinodial for in those applications they will end do you all line up? horary? where he regulates the same slain for a crab, than for a goat horn (with the exception of the hour of Capricorn, when Niam ipfa also terminate from the foundation tur) namely in this order. First hour pomendiana ends with pundo? qui- noitialisfpeitansad half an hour beyond opemionih before, or in the afternoon. Then from the next punished hor? or before, Velpo- noon? it ends at o'clock, and so on stock until it reaches the horafn termi swim, what? in the bow of the day of cancer not ha better Then it ends at the same hour it will be in Capricorn, what time is it at o'clock? and the rest until a quarter of an hour: but it will be finished at o'clock. beginning, the remaining hours m cancer, the same that it is true that the termination of fi freed from the punishment of capricorn E. Finding the castle this way for everyone it may be permitted to examine any of them, Oo ex Art magm Book IV. Gnome CuriofaVarsl.
and from each everything else. For the word gra tia point c, examine the fifth hour ve I found the issue by the point in the 3rd hour of cancer te-tum: you will trust at what hour it is half-past namely, between the fifth and third hours at four o'clock If, therefore, from the fourth hour five fex count the hours for example each way at the hour the pound of the hour will be equal that nodal thing, which with what hour the fifth and the third exiftit in the same line give If, however, the point of the third hour, by which I would like to prove a pound at five o'clock in capricorn, then eftetipfummetpundu at the fourth hour of the equinox, that is to say it is half-way between the fifth and third hours, the third? it lies in the same red line, and so on to the rest For the same difcurfu the same pun while at the fifth hour I examined from other places
nabis, everything at five o'clock other True to hafce two rules more easily to keep them, he was pleased to defend them, nor not to add a third, from which it is gathered, fi in Equinodial is smoked some pound ali- every hour to that, and three times the threat of any hour rule applies through that application another ho ra is terminated, that which belongs to ipfum the method of termination was initially delivered. Rule I Qua inyeniturpunffium in equino&tialiy that with two hours of two hours Cancer, or Capricorn, of which one is asked and the other is given, or by which both rums are given, in the same clear line Let us first ask what hour it is at half-past one three times two hours of Cancer or Capricorn distressed Then at what hour from that time half an hour later, let him hold his place then For the pound of his hour in the equinox it will be dialed at two o'clock the rum of Cancer, or Capricorn, in the same line lie down Wherefore be two of any of those pounds deijtur, by the application of the rule of femper a third will be found. Rule II Where is the rurfum found? the case, that with two punds, one of which in Cancer, the other in Capricorn lie in the same reda line. What is the hour between the tropical hours? rum elt means For his weight in what is required will be equinoctial. Underburm from any two given the third of them will be found. Rule III Qua inyenltur, which punctm tropico- rum, with two pounds, the second of which the rest also takes place in either tropic in the equinoctial, let it lie in the same line. return A B equinoctial hour rent hors fex: for the hour is a pound the tropics, which with the next hour aflignatain the tropic shines evenly from that hour found in place, it will be that which with two to the rest in the same line. Yes therefore, that hota was found in the south of the tropics be contained in the daytime arc of the tropical hour gnat, both hours will be in the same tropic. If, however, it was discovered at that hour later, it did not con let it be dimmed in the day's bow of another tropical hour they will be in different tropics. And so, be any two of the three puns push will be given, it will be given through the application gluttony, and the rest. For example, I want to make a pile H, Equinodial, and the pound of the hour u. crabs, with which they lie in the tropics repeat the same line. Counting hours except from the hour I find the hour pri mam: then counting the rurfum one ho ram beyond the first hour, because at o'clock, from the same hour, the first one will disappear on this side for one hour, I find a fertile hour which, when it becomes afternoon, should be contained in the diurnal bow of Cancer, there will be a punda hour rum Cancer, Equinodial in repeat the same line. I want to make a burr at o'clock. equinoctial, and the pound of the hour from me dianodein cancer, with which other weight in the same tropic, the line reda exifts. No earning first from o'clock hours, find the quarter hour for example afternoon: then counting from the hour the fourth, nine o'clock, that is how many hours from the fourth hour, the oadava hour of Cancer I find the hour at middle knots. Since therefore ifta hour should not be kept in the tropics at the peak of Cancer, they will weigh Capricor ni, Cancer, equinoctial in one reda line: so on the rest. What works tions more succinctly in the following table we present bi So in the first example which re hour in the equinoctial c side, nu merus in the transferfa hit fub in the front will give the table the number obtained; these things for the hour with y. St reda in the same line lies Horographia Darius} he lies, hour r. ends Again, inferior as an example, fiquaefiverisio. bring in he will give you in a transfer, hit fub n. in front te number Horam quxfitamu Horaigi- Hgy parallels.
there I go in the same return line ftunt. No faeces to proceed in the rest it is
fi d 4J s It is true that Ledtor is curious, in the the method of fun would be complicated somewhere. I am amazed at the whole idea of speculation lem, the fertile Pinace, how obinnunlera- riety, not undeservedly called wonderful
lick, complex smoke. For from this I will it is the point of any innumerable mo push not only through the tropics, fed through which I like the given parallel of the Sun, I want to pr$ter an almost unbelievable ease abundance, and variety of combination whether they are infinite, we teach them to end. Who however, this technique was explored more deeply it was, he was a pig to be fed to innumerable other things open the storehouse of aflronomia he will recognize and confess that Pho- cylidis: or mvn
I give Vfus taboo la.
The great book of art IV. Gnom. Kuriofa Parsi The explanation of the wonderful Tinacus. TTTLectorcuriofusmirabilem fpeculam he would grasp the idea of here we have arranged a pine tree, in which the clay; combination of time limits they are presented in such a wonderful manner that in every gnomonic business there is infinity they are able to provide smoke for innumerable pra- xium: whence I called him wonderful mouse He is the one who is born from it. If so Pinax is brought to hand, which is here described a mouse, it may be permitted to enter through him the more bounded nor at the end of the hours did I differ further by the counting of hours, in this way the hour of its termination is counted is given, and from which other hours are punished they are to be found, in the farthest, or lowest la rub Tabulg. fub the same, or fupra the same within the area of the same Table, at what time I like to finish; for on the sides on the right &fiiiftro from the region of the hour terminandm, re feet an hour of the equinoctial line, from which The ending must be propofita. This be punished by termination, and to the discovered hour of the equinoctial line Gula is applied, it will make a time line, which he likes to end in a punished quasfit. . That in the horizontal clock indeed ad parallel, the fire will lpeilat the northern arc, let that feitio be a fufra tcquinoftial verfijs the center of the clock: to the south, indeed, fi below the equinoctial, it touches the spell. Yes however, the rule applies to both thus found in the equinoctial, and hour propofitas in both parallels, both boreal, how far it should be contained; will be found through one application of those punished one, and through the other the other. siveropro at the end of the hungry hour parallel to the north, the same ho will be terminated ra from both of those punished rcquinoiital, fo- lu m for the boreal parallel; And one indeed will be punished by the boundary of the barn from the middle of the go, and take another garden from the south. Examples will make things clearer. From punished, for example F, horte iz. Can cri, fint to terminate all the rest of the garden, both for Cancer and for Capricornus; for example, in the first hour, which both in Cancer it is held as in Capricorn. Infupremo therefore, aside, I seek the hour iz. I saw her cet, by what hour the first hour is to be terminated, and within the same area for the first hour, which I would like to conclude: and from this point on I advance the transfer to both sides tem, and both to the right side, and to the left, in which I find half an hour before the first, on the fifth side, and a half ram before on the right. I therefore conclude. the termination of the first hour; by being punished iz. F, must be punished by two punishments requinoiital line; , which; they belong to God at noon the first hour, flame That which thou hast so fehaberein, be king you shall apply the punishments to the rich: for from the dim dia horasfeptimx you will find the hour terminated the first for Cancer, and from half a garden horn That I was punished instead of F, nemepeiz. The smoker of cancer was punished by Capricor If not, the discovery will be punished in this line rte first; for Cancer from the half-honorary m: e, o Capricornus from the punished equinox itial, which lasts for half an hour the first; that is to say, I will put them in order. Rurfum from the same punished iz. F or E the hour to be terminated, for example, which; Romce is not found in Capricornus, feb both in Cancer, namely both before and after afternoon Because therefore fub fz. terminating (for it will be called fic for short at that hour, during which another should be terminated) ho ra feptima terminating, on the right sides &finiftrohabet refponding halfe ho ras equinoctial, namely, before the hour of If to these two points a; quinotiaiis
the rule will be applied, for example to the pun ctum F; it will end from the hour of God half past four o'clock; at midnight; from but half an hour before o'clock. o'clock from the south, and indeed both in Cancer For the same is true of others at hours, from which others, or which; they are from others to be terminated; quinquintials are to be found, of which the termination of the same type They can also be drawn from the same Table of terms the naris hourly lines, by alighting first a point in the arquinoCtial, and to it, and at the stroke of any hour: already finished; applying the rule: for immediately exTable He will tell you what other time line, through that rule: the application shall be terminated: namely, in this manner. Found that hour asquinoCtial on the right sides, or fmi- of the second part of the file, in the upper part of which or the hour of the term is contained on the lowest side nans, to proceed from the same hour equinox ctial in the transfer, until it is reached at the cell directly fuppofit hour; the term nanti: for in that cell the hour will exist, which by that application the rule ends there; it may be the hour of that cell: the hour of the term nanti becomes equal: for then the application to reality gluttony, in no other line than in li nea terminating the hour, terminating the point tion will show And so, as you see, the most abundant is the hufu right of file; with almost infinite motion through it cLs diver Horograpbia yaria. do you want to end the divergent lines? or at least to be examined, whether indeed punda fint terminations well found; 8c hpc not a foal in the tropics, fed in any one opposite the other parallels, be in the meridian line na, or line hor? grow be found from the foundation Three Qantia mento one of the same parallels something. But that goes to ex- I refused to yield to him? let him watch all those hours with awe, what? let each other know each other from other and other places they define the hours found in the tequinodial and terminate If, for example, by pun while ix. Cancer other lines to terminate li bet, and accept it in the taboo? on the far side the same hour n. you will have the same mnes hours, both complete and half of them fesquadrantefque, fimulque on the right side tro, finiftto from the same region here rum, hours of the pquinodial line? , from which same hour are terminated by n. If indeed in on the right side, or on the left, for some time receive pquinoebaiis, and from it intratrfver- If you go ahead with the smoke, you will find that all are hot races to be terminated, from that quinodial hour; hor? but will they be terminators? what? imagine they are on the far side in the closing hours of the dispute diredefuprafcript? . They also love the same board you would trust yours, you will see from full hours li don't you? equinoctial for any hour paremjCujufmodifuntii. x. q. Sc. dun- taxes to be terminated by equal hours; and for an hour odd, odd hours: and that's it does it end? fintdu? somewhere? hor? , whose one liver, and the other odd, the benefit of them all the rest both even and odd to be terminated; I mean it's a pun give the pquinodials, which belong to the hours whole, the rule will be applied, to punda at the end of those two hours, for example, first at one o'clock at an odd hour. And hence that which how easily you will conduct it; indeed, carefully it is to be offered, lest at any time in the clock They were carried away in a line of hours of grains, in the equinoctial, however, also pun It is necessary for the femi-hours to grow that is to say, then to fuffice, fi in equinodia whether any weight should be found, which fpedetaduna some hour and a half: that is to say, from it by a pound, for example horre iz. The cancer will end in a few hours an odd rum: which indeed he recognized at once fcesex table For example, find then the equinoctial pound is halved encouraging the ninth hour: you will find out of the tabu la, which I put into exile for an hour iz. thrice the fifth hour threatens, when it becomes odd all the rest will be terminated by it equals, be a rule to its bounds application, and to the gras pquinodialis, as it is
Sivero was also carried away by the clock femihour, it is required that in the equinoctial fal- lest someone should find a quarter, as I go out through iz. or be terminated by some fe-qt of hours, which the table will indicate: by nrmint for the termination of that femi-thr' hours, all other femiho- rae, partly from half an hour, partly from complete equinoctial rice. Finally, to end the lines with which the edge will be cut in the equinoctial inve to take a pound for the hemiquadrant, this is for the odd part of any hour: for hence by iz. or one person will be terminated a quadrant, from which the others are to be terminated. Hence the reason why it is so in the sides is clear bulls, at eighths of every quarter of an hour We were advanced on the pquinodial line; that is to say, that the same table should also burn rab-. UaA fint parts of all the least: which is extended in the hour. commonly referred to logies, polish, eouf- who was spreading the table. Who, however, played smaller parts in the clock He wills to bear it; it is an easy table excende. t, fi in the defending sides, in three hours, and he interposes here the parts which have been eaten four quarters of a quarter, that is, par tes from the cords of the entire hours: Sc on the farthest and lowest side, between the hours and their parts ending in eighth parts let him interject, so that between the hours and the hours parts, contained in an air board. Rather, when it happens very rarely as it is they were carried away, fed the female foal, or even a full hour's sleep; every one he rubs his hair into that particular part of the taboo lam to be plucked out of this universal, lest the work should be done to carry around such a large table. But from let's now pray for each other wars by their own canons; the easier what happens at the termination of the lines while, to be found The following are the Canons of the Faperms Table addus. ce Canon I Tropofitahora of any parallel arc, ex quonam eapunclo cequinoSialis, three times an hour threatened by the arc of the same parallel, to become, to terminate, to investigate. When the hour is over, the fire is over nans, in the last step of the word bulae, &fub to end at the same hour enter area For on the other side of this hour [needs on the left and right side of the O o q dials nArtis magna Book V. Gnom. Curiofa Part the hours of the day, each of which will be fatal propofita: quseftioni Canon From the appointed hour in the equinox, bring what hour of the arc of the parallel term nari pojjlt hour propofita inve- to fix Solution of the propoftion of Canon II. O Onatur at the hour of the fifteenth century, found in From the innermost Cyclo, at o'clock. Cycles from fear of the closing hours: for in it with the confederation of the Cyclops, he will refpond in ending at the last hour of the Cyclo, hour: three to be threatened, which must be accepted in Cyclo me dio or against the hour ending in the middle The infinitesimal hour of the squinodial is wasted! Cyclone will return to the bordering garden, which: the transfer should proceed through the area dern, until you fall into the cell an hour: three times threatening: If, therefore, from the same cell smoke them, or deorfunj; you will find or on the lower side of the quarter hour, that is to say by which it can be terminated at an early hour. Canon ajjignata hour in czqtmotliali, quanam the hour shall be terminated by the hour given and the time limit so the bow of any parallel, dignified. QVteratur rurfum at the equinoctial hour in on the other side, or at the right hour of the term nans, terminating in feu in the upper or lower part side: for enter the area, go below, or At the end of the fourth hour, the termi he is looking for a swim. Cycle AnacephaUoticus majo ris Tahuicc However, not all hafce tables. they polish to carry around, hence Le- in the Pinac race into the Cyclic fyftema dif- we drank, those clothes, as if in baCOingenti, in this cyclic Ivftemateve- Tables, a. , J J rather, the epitome would be presented. But the propofitions of the preceding three canons will also be easily accommodated in the most frequent Cyclo, in which the further tabu We have contracted with that trust, as when there was a need, the whole in some small space that which in that table has more length
to be transferred Solution of the propijitioms of Canon per Cycle AB. P Onatur at the end of the hour, found in- three hours of the middle cycle, which is the outermost mobile, fub hour terminated feu three times menacingly, found in the extreme Cyclo, namely in motionless For there it was melted into fat ris Cycles, they will repound hours. Cycles again at the end of the last hours, in The inner cycle, which is to follow the line of hours nodials, or parts of them, which: in the table in the wind: fu i weep on the sides to the right, It was discovered in the first Cyclo; proutfcilicetfe cund, or the propofitio of the third canon it is proposed to give Having therefore offered these, I fi for example ho ra festa is supposed to be terminated by fub io. thrice threatening, you will see fub xx. terminating so hour z tequinodiaiis, from which According to the first canon, it must be done three times a threat For example, be a scumbag at a fertile hour, or odava asquinodiaiis is placed fub ix. Cy At the end of the hour, he will return next to the fruitful canon, hour: , of the word gra tia to terminate the middle cycle, hour io. ending in the extreme Cyclo. Or near III. Canon of the hour. at the end of the cycle from I am afraid that the hour will end in Cyclo me dio: and so on the rest, using the lines of the cells in the place of the parties near me of ours, which are contained in the cells, when at quarters, I saw the odd parts it must be defended. Hourly cycle II. CT intruding to de- the capture of the Parallel Arcs, in any Ajtronormco clock, no problem at all to be completed Development of the Cycle f This Cycle is completed in two parts, one immovable wheel, and the other mobile The immovable wheel fuses two cycles, the last, which is attributed to the asquinoda, conti nor xx whole hours with the thigh, with quadrants and semi-quadrants you want parties an hour: ; as well as the inner Cyclo whose hour: , half-hours, and quarters are those whose bows are carried away they are either sought or found. And therefore this same Inner Cycle is not a bad Cycle may be called the closing hours. Rotavero mobile has a unique cycle hours, half-hours, and quarter-hours, who when to the hours and parts of the hours parallel they belong to the same Cycle name the Cycle of Parallel hours, or even the hours ending in it let them be taken properly at an hour: during which hours I like to determine others. Therefore, Rot$ Various horographies. Immovable wheels (Extreme j C Equinodial Cycle. Cycl us c Interior C will be called the Cycle of the hours of te rminanda. Movable wheels Single cycle j L Cycle ending hours. Ufusappofit Cycle. Ufuni prophesied the cycle of the three expedients mus Problems, what are they? Problem Bx affignata h ora in AiquinoBiali, qua for the hour is determined in a parallel arc read, by the same hour given and ends as well, to dignize In this Problem two are given, and affi- the hours of any one are known as a pound in the osquinodial line, and pundus in some the hour line, which runs to the other arc the parallels of which: But the third is sought, nemeline horary in which to find pun- ftum ej ufde parallel arc, fi to two pun- give the established rule to be applied, that which ex apofito Cyclo with no problem so find there At p. m. A moving wheel feu Cycle of the terminating hours (which the index shows the hands at the hour affixed to the equinoctial in the same cycle found, fi rurfum in Cyclo, three hours ni nantium is sought at the hour of the parallel, refpon- due to the same Cyclone in the next few hours to be terminated at a parallel hour which ritur, that is to say, those which from the given punfti about ends So, let it be a given hour in the equinox ctial becomes the fifth, or eleventh, before, or after noon, and at the parallel hour, through which I would like to determine another, for example at noon, it was the hour of the cycle of the terminating hours, let us at o'clock or Equinodial cycles, inve let us go from the side of the hoiy girded cycle of the hours terminating: namely, in the Cyclo of hours to terminate the hour which by hours given and assigned will be completely determined there be the same in the plane of the propofit of the clock
the hour should be kept. It is the same reason at other hours, and parts thereof, which in pro- They are placed in the Cycles of appetites. That was done three times an hour threatening would be affignata i. will not be effective neceffie to move the mobile wheel anywhere, when in the immovable Wheel, at the equinox hour, At what hour is it fixed and to be terminated? What you mean is not about whole hours only, fed also from the thigh, quadran these, and so on and about odd parts in Equinodial cycle carried. So you see I went out. or determine the equinoctial ri fruitful hour: likewise from the first hour, when i is determined hor. wants to be fertile the third, and finally from beyond the first three that fourth quarter may be fruitful, let it be seen although you gave the hours by the parallels were determined they spin Problem From the appointed hour in AquinoBial, fer what time will the parallel be terminated? borapropojita; beware ILI Here also two things are given, namely the hour -asquinodialis, ending at the hour; and the third, that is to say, what that parallel hour takes place, through which from the given pun- let the equinoctial line represent the pun- while the arc was equal, the hours were attached to the line you Put again the hours Cycle hour the rums terminating at the hour of the equinox cycle nodial: for the hour, which in the same Cyclo The hours of the ending will reflect the hours and found in the Cyclo of hours to be terminated, it will be that through which infti- determination must be maintained. For example, fi hour Cycles of hours end you will set them at the 9th hour of the equinox; you will see next to the hour cycle to be terminated, which is clearly proposed for example, to finish the caufa, hour pofi- so in the Cyclo of the terminating hours, per which was evidently prophesied at the fifth hour, po- teft to be determined, be weighed in the first hour not to be trusted Problem The ancestors of the bora of Earallel, from whom they put it clo equinoctial, during the given hour of the parallel to be determined, to investigate. What is the problem with this problem? while asqiiinodial lines, utrunqife given that the hours are parallel; once indeed three times threatening, and the other to be terminated. It is investigated I have seen each of them in his own Cyclo cet to be terminated in the cycle of the term of hours of swimmers, and terminating in the Cyclo of hours terminators, and these by circumvolution let it be fixed at the foot of the movable wheel: which for in this fit of the Cyclops, in the Cycloasquft at the hour of the nodal hour, twelve o'clock rae Cycle of the terminating hours (which the quick index of the hand demonstrates) it will be from at what appointed hour it may be terminated, be and the same hours in squinodialil it does not exist. In this way, at the fourth hour of Cy At the end of the hour, the fub the third cycle of the hours to be terminated, with the twelfth cycle of the terminating hours let it rest half an hour past three, or the ninth is collected in the sequinodial Cyclo, Three hours per quarter, to be terminated from pound Art Magna Book IV. Gnom: (uriofa 'fars
at the point of the xquinoitial horx poft the third or the ninth To be noted about the first, fecun while Prollema After about three hours, the threat is met with the same; then the problem But it is indeed rendered useless when determined nari hour by feipfa not poffit: that ta from that reason it is held that from that hour it is easy which leader is judged from the same xqui- the marriage will be terminated by punishing the fimul. Sem-' for by the leader some horx will end from that punished equinox, which or xqualit to each side horx terminating, with which to terminate coincides, or what kind of difference in and tram part horx aflignatx in xqui- nocturnal Who, moreover, is the chief of all the gods to trust to do more quickly, confutes Ouranogra phiatn fequent noftram fciatheric, where, for example, various paradigms He will find all the traCta. Athanasius Kircher E SOC, PRESBYTERY OF JESUS ART M A G N LIGHT AND SHADOW
Book Five OVRONOGRAPHY GNOMONIC SIVE ABOUT ALL THE FIRST MOBILE THE DOCTRINE IN EACH REPRESENTATION OF SCIATHERICAL PLANES. P R r A T I o. RIEM1SS A Horography only better known, now the system of the order of the pofiularc. it seems that I give firmness to the ccelefium of circles, the same as that, by the method pro-
let's get pregnant And although I am not ignorant, I have learned the key of our knowledge in this material spring fate: because, however, his gnomonic work is so difficult and difficult it seems that those who either perceive the mind of Auihori, or perceive it as fi the morofarumdemonjlrationumintricatifim figures tediumfuflinant: Ego As much as I could, I would have promoted a woman and a curious woman, and I would have freed the characters from so many tribulations. Since indeed, experience is more profound, and most of the time, in practice, demonfirations are also attached to problems Tyrone had more hindrances than aids; all the demons of the gnomon It is a living thing to spend expensive equipment; which we began in the first part of this work; utfic Pragmatic training with an inoffensive foot to hold the curfew This is how much I am proud of myself. There are also many problems that I recently discovered I have indicated the reasons and reasons, the data for the work, and the fubobcure; curious geniuses to be known, which are unproblematic, held by the trust of the accounts, further I landed, searching that, I would open a field of discoveries. Lefior, therefore, will succeed in this work of every kind Planifhceria, five Aftrolabiafciatherica in any fuperficia given, and the method, the ease with which from no one else, whatever, he was able to delineate. And these are the things of which the first Lefioremmo he would not see the duxfiutfiforfan propofitiones, because of it, as we have said. : aufam, idcontigijfe would be done As, therefore, the various colors of the trees touch the optical projection, itava- The third mo therefore appropriate go to the zodiac cumrud-o- fm. Seconds method The third m so
Art magnz Book Cnom. Curio EXERCISE FIRST. To outline the triangle of the zodiac. Goodbye Zodiac nothing efl other than the figure of the Trigona the declination of the wood, from the rays The sun's caufata, which at the beginning of the pawns in the center of the earth, fire gnomon apicefefe killed tes, in a plane to the water line God, we are imagined to be polar live, diffused again; nothing what are the sides of the fciatheric cones rums, which the Sun will burn around the top of the gnomon didto plane Now draw the zodiac in this way twice First, from the table of the declination of Solisfol. zj6. propofita see the clay of the clay from the water in Aullrum, or the decline of Borea, which We have received the fervor here. II. arc CD around the line AB dudto. a B on both sides the deviations of the pawns were counted according to the table you will lead these three they will make a bow CED inputs, per which from A i will exhibit Zo radiologist what happened pofitisttt Kab aquaratore scuttling the wood were numbered grad. min. on both sides, count by term tion from A, line two are sung, one of which will be the ray al tera radius ttt X. Again exB on both sides were numbered grad. min. through which draw the end of line A on both sides rent from B on both sides grad. min. through which from A the line will be the boundaries the sun's greatest jaeclination. If so dlaC, D, you will join together; you will have three the throat of the Zodiac was cut off by a ray. Or even the middle part of the Zodiac is a ray of light it might be used here, where AD ray of water, DE the greatest decline of the Sun refers to both lem, which boreal. p Further, the Zodiac radio light, prepare other clothes rabies, as it happens. From A t in the center of the arc CD, on both sides of it the mere greatest declination of the Sun, and then redla the extreme numbering of the CD you will join; from the middle of which E, inter A circle is drawn by the capital EC, or ED quemini2 divide the waters into parts. I will finish this; fi per pundta NP, KL, HI, MO, equally removed from the points C, Confebarium I From this it is clear that those of the middle peasants, or inscribed in every part of the radius of the trigon poflint: let it be from B, in the first figure, or fertilized by C, numbered on both sides declines the media, or the third parties, I pledge to them reflecting the parts, with lines from A du- dtis determine We are only here in the middle we took the rays of the rum pawns. I finished frame GI vero triangulum Menographum, IlvcTrUn u
if you would like to write down the list, you will see who but the principles of menfmmgrhum by the steps of the pawns. let them recompense; for I have declined these degrees nation aB, on both sides, count C, ta will give the points through which the rays from the center A be led See the shape of this triangle in Gnomonic geography, Con Ouranograpbia Gnomonica. C beginning on both sides in quadrants, divide each one into degrees, as. ConfeBarlum III, IF, finally, the degrees of decline Let it be written by the sun, through the fmguls degrees from B to C, and D punfta right from A they will give the Duke what he wants. Pre-exercise IL The triangular radius of the quantity of days, mild outline. x center E, any interval EC, or EF, the arc of the circle was described, in which a C on both sides the complement is computed of the elevation of the pole, ufqueinF, or A, which re day AF, will end. When this is done, take a break dine AG, or GF, of any size the circle was described, which parts which you divide: for any two of this from A, on both sides of which it is removed, if you combine them with secret returns, these will be fruitful the line AF, impun&is, through which exE redt They will give a third of the amount a day rum, noctiurn quafitum. And here it is? guard; but we We render it universal in Geography the gnomonic firumetlti, how confluent. If the lines universal you will judge from the center to the lines of latitude, where made by the hour lines, there they will be given from raise the inclinations of the newspaper's bows given the adjustments. Practice Analemma, for conic feSUones of feri- handing Arc ABCI with two diameters AI, CB in the center of D, fe to the lines between it will be dissolved, and BC will be the horizon such that AI is a vertical line, this aB& you see Numbered from C, the height of each pole in E, the line EDS is drawn through the center D, He complains about the axis of the world, as in the center of Dad redlosfecet quinodbial XY III. Finguligradus is joined by pun- dlis horizontal line BC, which removed, by returning the lines, or to avoid confusion clay or steps as we have done here mouse, and by the same degree from the center the other lines are sung, and the trian is joined the conical throat of the declination of the flagellum. IV. Draw parallel to the vertical AI there QR, being at such a distance from her, what is the height of the gnomon; figure out and from the branches of the mundane axis PD of the quadrilateral DL, and the lines of the plane PL, the triangle gnomonic PLD, for the vertical plane. If but the same gnomonic triangle for the faithful of the horizontal, the leaders of the horizontal BC is parallel to MN, the length of the gnome and it will be made from the cuttings the axis of the world' SD, the fourth DL, and the plane horizontal SL, the gnomonic triangle DSL inferring the horizontal plane feca- and they will line QR, MN, cones to them pundlis, through which in the meridian line they must be translated into hyperbolas, as desired it will be seen in practice. But this is a duck theme for the conic federations of all to the world Wherefore the intrument will be made univer-fu redda- falius, fiquinodlialis, &axismundicon-Wr jun&i, 8c in the center D verfatiles fupra da so the pole, and the height of the quater they want This will also serve for conic fe- the slants of daily arcs on any plane to be inferred, as will be evident in the results. P p a Pr- OG aArtis magna Liber V. Gnm. Kuriojce. Pre-exercise IV! Let the circle of any one be the first of all Net, five Infimmentmn Almucanta- ro-azymuthic defcrihere; this I, Almu- you can sing, Azymutha, five circles ho horizontal and vertical in this plane horizontal, regulre fciaihericce with defcrihere T Taque Rete Almucantaro-azymuthi- when you write for the horizontal plane ftc. From the center of the lines in the rule register to the center of D, it shall be applied in that manner, as to the side of AI The lines DT, or DH, are perfectly compatible; they will give extreme punda, level line? BY, on the line AI, punda, by which, ficxD in the center, in the fire place draw lines on the periphery of the circle xeris, there will be vertical lines, fiveAzymu- tha qusfita in one quadrant, which then they will be transferred to other quadrants. This intrument is so impressive
jnftrumen- jiabet, so that hardly any kind of lines can be given Pre-Exercise Almucantaras, Azimutha on the plane to break the vertical A Pplicate ABC, triangle with the vertical line AC, the meridian? plain ni, and I marked with three pounds A pole, C water toris, O ftyli: fi through O, to the normal AC VR, through C, to VR, another parallel you have drawn, VR will be horizontal, MN equal nocturnal This done; apply the rule having a breadth of height such as I have a little before, so the lines singer muthicnin the size of with two diameters HT, VR, into four quadrants in the center of D, I would say to the slaughterers ptus: and it becomes a gnomonic triangle ap folded lines meridian HT, eritquc ra- dius BC axis of the world, AC of the equator, DC gnomon, to which in the horographic quadrant cut off an equal portion of AB, the second in figure If therefore B Y; parallel to AI, side of the quadrant" du you will give this par-al- AJBIY lelogram, rule out panfam, which center fuo B will be applied to center D, local phytyl in the plane of the hour zontal aflumpti; so that one side by rule lines DV, or DR; and the other rules side AB, lines HT, treacherously con crane And so, according to the rules applied ls gradus inlineaDV, velDN, punda you are impreffering; they will give through it from the center D, circuli dudi Almucantaras, five cir horizontal butts cut off. If true It is not thrown on the plane because of this poflit, as in the fertile demons it will be bitter Whence that injury, Almucan- taro I took the title azimuth mouse For if any man in any wall of Alm you will sing, AzyjRUtl ia through imaginary steps Dida will carry the clothes; he will have a mecha no injury, which the same prsfta- bit, what did I miss? Almucantaro-azym uthi- c? it will be seen that VR horizontal, utBY didre lines perfectly it fits If therefore the weight of degrees in the horizontal lines of the VR and through them parallel to the meridian line you will draw, you will have vertical circles, live Azimuth taken in a given plane. The same you will have, fi to the quantity of the phtyli OB, exO Ayj. rnu. tbci. a pound in the line AC, transferred to a circle light from the terminus of the phthyl you have led the zontal aftumpto; for this in the parts of fi are divided, of videos in horizontal VR, redas du, they will admit the parallels AC duda of Ridiana, Azymutha qusfita. Gnomonic Ouramgraphia. Oi To work in this way for Almucantar. radii on the side B Y, the rule expands the term swimming, that is, fertile AB. Aio. A A A from A, verfusB, in in the horological quarter, as iN cross the horographic quarter rantur (withheld from the previous amount of Ityl) A B, vei D B, gnomonic triangles; mold deep ell Or be too tight-lipped they are worshiped, they are transferred first to the ungulates who degrees, either deni or deni, like us. here we did it, or even for two days and why ni degrees in the line AK, quarter of an hour the graphics are transferred: and they are guided by transferred punfta to the line A B, side of the parallel quadrant, with the help of which in the turning calbus, feuAzymuthis Retis will be hunted the points of the conical branches, through which hy the perbolas of Almucantara will be led, as it is done (we are here for want of space we only drew the lines li (N, D, B, Y are fixed. First, apply in the quadrant Azimuth degrees clay pot tumliteraN, on the left a parallel line ver tical lines of the network with the same number, namely Notated, those induftria, utfibiperfefte con they growl When this is done, put the molds in order the needles pierce ten and fifteen degrees You will note that: or the same also from the circle to transfer the azimuth in the grid quadrant poffunt, adfcriptis fmgulis pundtis do. After this, apply line D in the quadrant defignatamazymutho in the plane of the network, and as before in this Azymu- tho clay fortnight fortnight rum degrees pundta carefully known, ad as a little before the numbers. Then he neam quadrant B vertical, leuazy- by applying a 60-degree net, diftos you will note the steps in it, as it is given, fic or
dine the remaining parallels zo. vertical network zo. gr by applying two you will mark fifteen steps, and I would have all the pundtas through which I hyper balls, five cones of height So lis, this ell, let's give fakes and give them, vices and vice versa, by steps to be taken they are If, therefore, everything is punfta, why should it not be first? mere Y will be marked, the connecting curve rice; they will give you that hyperbole, which Sol at a given plane of degrees of elevation of the whole at the end of the year he will write: for where is the shadow the gnomon touched this line, the certofcias Pp Artis Magm Uber V. Gnomx (uriofis. The arc of the signs of the Zodiac in a given piety to intrude Pragmatism I Parallels [ignoring the Zodiac on the plane cequinotlial incrihere CUm in the equinox plane of the arch of wood rum pretends nothing else but circles; so put them on the same level with almost no effort you write DuHs clubbuslines in the center E ad retfos befee interlacing, five hour line i z CD, however, is a line of hor girdles. If, therefore, in the zodiacal ray in the line VZ, representing the axis, from O, verte to the other tram part LO, or NO, the amount of phtyl tem you determine, by L, or N, reft ad. aum uecimaounib ciu icqudLuic, cx eume- AB the radius of the water you drew parallel; quinte declinations of the trees, while m fifTnnrnm ifl nunctis. ner c-l ai: it will make the rays of the pegs in the points, per those drawn from the circles will give then. Therefore, as I said, let the quantity of phytyl in VZ determined by GL, as in the radial zodiac fe- it is evident from the following, that LM will be parallel to AB in punitisP, Q, R, rays of wood. If so that at intervals LP, LQ, LR, exE center asquinoitial plane, circles are drawn, give that bow of pawns will be obtained. Equinox ctial is not considered in this clock, fed The double proftus disappears, fixed on the horizontal hori- quinoBiaie, zon utifupra oftenfum eft, eo quodaequa- a fool is equal to a torplano. So let it be done in time re equinoctii in the equinoctial plane gno I cast an infinite shadow, and so much the greater the nearer the Sun was to it; one a double plane is thus obtained equinox, inferior, and inferior; in the office on the other side the boreal woods, in the lower part so many auftrals resides. Line xnvenm but the horizontal one dissolves the outer part you will not be afraid of the hells that you will find. From E more precisely ontal 8o. degrees of Almucantharam the Sun ob-il determined the amount of phthyli EI ex I to what altitude is the Sun drawn, the angle SlE, the elevation he never touched Rome. If again all points fixed curve conjunxe rice; you will have Almucantar degrees to be found, and to be foreign. This skill is for you We have connected the previous Rete, whose ufos He is to be admired as much as any prodigy an irregular plane to be given polllt, in which his with the help of every genens line inferibinon pof- sectetmnfint; and a new one here, for the reader we spread the gnomon, where nothing is not in the whole gnomon cm' ca, and smoke with ease: so as of him, that (which of natureDemocrates mvTu. all in all) do not immerse to be said But all this is futile in fe- they will be revealed to those who Therefore, so pre- Miffis, now to the ipfa of the circles of the left let us compare the inference. Problem uispoii contineatrubineim line addiCtame- through that point he has made the horizontal line AB parallel to the line CD of the hour belt will give a horizontal line, which dissolves hell from the bottom plane. But do these things They are more complicated, however they deserve to be explained. Hosarcus also brought down with the help of intrumen ti Almucantaro-azymuthici. For if he You will apply the game to the equatorial plane in such a way that its center D is equal to the center E of the plane and the meridian line exactly coincide, all the circles will refer from z. in any case Z3 j. circles showing the bra of the gnomon every day while the declination from the equator, confe. Ath: so rno- The sun shines on their principles. Another mo while looking at the test. . III. threshold L fionfeSlarium. From here it is made, the bow of the pawns in this
with the plane of the same projection those which the sun makes in the most oblique sphere on the horizon, and the plane vertical primary Problem The arcs of the Zodiac are polar on the plane conotomic universal projection. The first method is done at the radio station The zodiac was transferred to the fubfid. Since therefore the clock becomes the same as the polar compass with the noon, &fola hours I will go away; hence that of hyperbole in this place we will say, of the meridians also of the East, and of the West it becomes a dental implant. Wherefore did she con-. joined O wanograpbia Gnomonica, .nter in the center N, of which AB is the meridian we joined Let us therefore proceed to the matter from j Dudis two lines to redos fe between Polaris will do wonders. We are afraid of me. you go Polar watch on the left side of Modiali EB, delineate ho ra iz. Zodiac, hour ir. the clock is perfect how appropriate When this is done, in the same manner diana, points of intersection of rays, and at o'clock the note is taken care of on both sides; through for they will cross the parallels of the Sun as well as Bo- real, than Auftrini. Then she was promoted parallel to the 1st hour in the Zodiac hour on the clock, punda rays, as print first on line Then print the same in line they apply do the parallel hour Zodiac ray fi, fu- for on the clock &fic proceeding with you will be hungry until the bleeding subsides you will wash off; for by punda to the same pa rallelum fix fpedan tia curve give a doubt there will be a bow made of rum in the pole of the clock; the half of whose arcs, be made into the other diana, EB sequinodialem, NA or NB fiyli report an amount equal to (he owes you the space between the and the 9th hour is intercepted to use fupra; and that in the polar bearer of the clock is) transferred in the radii of the Zodiac here appo- draw the line OB, the hourly line: from O, this in order: BN, or AN, in the order of the quantity of thread sharks intercepted by a circle is transferred from O, cen tro the rays of the Zodiac in the equinoctial line OB; iZgiiM then intercepted in order the lines of hour-radiof ho- riashorologies between B, punda communiiainter fedioniscequatoris, horarum, v. g. B B Bjc B4. B from the same radius of the Zodiac, O you will transfer to the beam of the roofer, bringing the number of lispuns, as here appears; through anger for the punda is parallel; to the YZ axis, they will give the hourly lines inferred from the Zodiac. These therefore parallel lines together with the Zodiac, anger app cabis clock, as the xquinodial OB of the Zodiac, ho- transfer part of the clock, you will have inte the great bow of the pawns, whom you may find opoite bat The style will normally be inherited in Ns with the amount of space NB or N3. or9 hour The cutting board Cutting The polar hour G M Orien. Occ.
The second Stood. The same quoquefubfid board here tx You will finish the secantium, fi the fruitful hours Aiz. cArtismagna Liberi Gnome Curiofa a i polar, or meridian clock in taking, in the middle of the water OB trans- of the future; by pundtaenim parallel to the axis they will make the rays of the Tignes in the pundtis, by which it was transferred from the water to the hourly lines In the first place, as before the fact, point out the points bunt, through which conotomicaprojedtio paral he will incur the charges. the second The second way to draw an easy bow not The mud is the most delicious and delicious. But yes to work They may be on a polar or mere clock Diano recorded the whole with the middle hours: with which, apply the rays of the Zodiac ver tice O fupra punished in the equinox of the clock, so as the equinoctial equinoctial He perfectly refpondeatffitque radiolus Zodia cus on transparent paper tinted with oil feet). Click here to print the hour on the line iz. the points of the rays, as before. Then I advanced from the top of O'Frupa for half an hour poftp. and the line will be made at through which an arch of wood will pass. then let me down again from the top O fupra fe- it is taken horaz in the points through which the arc Ti they will pass over the gnomes, and the story of the rest give, femper top O fupra half hours by applying in common integers between fection rays, hours punished fi-
gnaando; perline curv? they will give a duCtg line a bow of wood. A third mo- erty mode is made with the help of the width of the shadow rum cx universal board for all polar Table of the width of the shadows. hour transferred there on both sides they will be punished, through which the bow will be pierced: the points of the arcs of the pegs in the reli You can find out who the timetables are with the help of the table. A completely easy and universal method. The fourth way is through conic fertilization lest they be carried away by the leadership of any son how wonderfully ingenious and delightful, fme It is completed in the morning. First, proceed as follows. Are there two? line CD, AB, as before in A fertile
bus, and meridians around the world fervently, than from table YI. fol. we escaped Let it be an hour, therefore, on the plane of the pole feri pta, as it appears. Put the shadows on the table rum at o'clock, take the parts of the shadows from table that from parts, such as z. split tur, from N, in the place where I said, you transfer the phtyl to the left that in the meridian line, and I would have Punishment of pawns in the hour. Secondly, for let them accept the points of the pawns in the line then correct the parts from table hours fpondentes; for hgc I exclaim in a line Secondly, the points of the pegs through the beam The zodiac, or the papyrus tables before the appetites in line iz. from A, on both sides of the fertile system lest those which were handed down in the preceding threat for these will be the vertices of the hy- of the perbolas against those of the hungry, five were punished by comparing the fates on the plane I will give Tertially drawn from the normal GR, or HS, phthylo lum Ali, or AS, is translated into the line of me ridianum on both sides in X, K, which will be pun so from the comparison made, five centers refle xion, fire foci hyperbola fibi opposite tarum Fourth, in two foci I, K! are fixed two needles, to which you attach two threads, which in H you first connect the twisted, then by loosening them, you brush them until they are smooth their joint should touch the lingulas rias lines I was not carried away for an hour rint, the threads of the fennel are brushed through the hole of the needle with that knot, five j unftura of threads, and a needle, de- Sivero's defiant hyperbole threads together with the needle in the point G opposite the con to rfer; the movement of the juncture of the fenfim threads la box Gnomonic Ouranography Xatorum describes the hyperbola of the opposite. If, however, the other parallels cono- Tomic projections are faithful the vertices of the projected hyperbolas normal sharks are led by phthylo, as here n o, m p; then the interval A o, or A p, intercepted to be transferred to the line me radianam: and I would have fireplaces that were qusefites, which you will fasten the needle, and the thread, and work with it to them, as was done in the preceding operation, I would have two other hyperbolas. not fe- you will proceed in other ways. Demonstration We have given a summary of this matter in Pfotheoria II. I might as well apply at this point to draw any other hyperbola rum practice The truth is that Le&or is easy it from a treatise on conic fictions will lead for in it we taught various methods, to give back to us the relatives of the left-hand man, or the gnomonic will come to you, I promise. For this reason also I follow these hy perbolas to lead, see in the cited Pro- instead of a gymnasium: a horizontal line so you will paint. Let the angle to the punch ho rae or which with A should contain com the fulfillment of the elevation of the pole, where li nothing that terminates an angle, a mere line made a diana, through that putnft to the quinodtial parallel du5ta will give the hour zontal You will find the same by applying tion of the gnomonic triangle. With truth it becomes a double polar, lower and upper; will be done the lower, the lower, the right hand of him shall be ftra of this, 8c on the contrary: and let it be done in all things the opposite bus Where is also known, by which ma jor was the latitude of the place, so many hours in the lower part it will be shown, so few the thing, the smaller the width. The same only fe has the polar lower to the lower, vertical aftral to vertical b oreal with the rest of the hours in both boreal from Horafexta to the rise, or the occafum of each side
He would demonize the sun. So the bow of the pawns I have drawn various movements on the clock mouse, which had to be done. Problem tAn arc of pawns in the south of the clock dejcnhere jOUm meridian clock from pola- ri, fatufolum, differ in the order of the hours rat there will be a register of the bows of the pawns Profound the same. It should be noted that as for the garden line iz. in polar, this line Hone punftum E vero instead of phtyli, at the beginning of the conotomic projection: with a word, fi transfer the Zodiac from polar to the hourly lines of the meridian clock; have obtained twice. Cteterain no polar dif they bear But when they go ahead with this fuse these di&um is done, then we dismiss the Reader. Problem The boxes are placed on a horizontal plane to intrude There are several ways of drawing a bow rum, see among different Authors: nos we only know the findings together with very easy, by the common method of 8cuniverfali camus curiofo Leftori. f. I The first method, ours, and the easiest perjrnusfecantes O Rimo then apply the gnomo triangle no horizontal in that ratio, as AC the meridian line, from the center of the clock, AB is the axis, BC the radius of the water, DB Plan horfxevwolic. let it refer to the plane, and A becomes the angle of elevation nis pole, C is the angle of its completion. This pcraft, divide CB into equal parts, which will instead be the end of the whole. Then the app ca radiofum the center of the Zodiac was O, in pundto B, triangles, five apexesftyli, so that the radius of the equator the radius of the equator BCZ let him recompense you. ? Transfer the fruit to the pot from noon B, in the line BCZ, in the parts of the line BC, fe- equinostial diameter: for through these punftra from A, lines redtie du&ae will give pun- da conotomic projctiionesquaefita. The same of other conic fe&ionh of the parallels of the Sun the bus carrying the fattues. And this is what happened the universal bubble, and the elevation of the fervent clays by these poles, and above all by the gnomonic triangle to the given latitude, and aflu- pto radius of water in the deep triangle for fi- not at all He who has understood this practice well, that difficult, and morose operation in the drawing the adjustments of the arcs of the pawns by the Authors it does not need to be fed with the aid of one radius of the triangle together with the map here the apofita is very easy to infcnbet. As au the operation becomes easier, they will be able to do it tes, or tangents in the horographic rule so applied as the rule of the clock to the center Q3 I will tell you Art magm Book V. Gnomon. Curio A universal table of tangents and secants time differences k at noon. Cut you Touch you An hour he deserves Diftan of hours from mere
weight of wood in hour i n. in this way de: pundta common interfc&ionislineae lioras x. I went to them. and the rays of the Zodiac from A, dido faster in homogeneous time lines the bow of the wood fell. Bring all these things We leave it undone. This is enough for us femper the locooccafion thing to the greater ease of deducing, clediiTe: fedpraxim let us declare with an example. So let the clock be horizontal gnomonic triangle small, as appears in the above figure, inltru- ctum: the hyperbola of the same wood is inscribed b er e would, so op erar e Tra n sfer in Zo dia- co radiofo from A all the fpacia lines of the hour ii. where they are killed by the rays of the falconers, here from A, the center of the horizontal clock Ridiana, ADU; I would have pun&aligno rum, for o'clock Again, to have everything the center of the clock; an hour on both sides i. you will translate, and these will give pun&aligno rum for the said hours. So pundfca in with the help of the lines of the remaining hours You will find the radiation of the zodiac. The second way is through conic fe&ions. Pragmatism I "Given the vertices of hjp er holes in the anal- mate catholico together with the diameters of feclion co nics, the hyperbole of all here in the horizontal plane. Let it be in the analemma here set forth, quan titas Itylus PX, the triangle of the gnomon with TPY. that on the horizon plane in the meridian line transferred, so that T becomes the center of the clock, the X place of the gnomon, Y the pundtum of the south equinox
ctial If therefore from T, the points g o n y i k, in the meridian line, transfer, they will give that punCtafi- gnorum in the south line, feu vertices through which the hyperbola lu- c-shadows are to be led. Hyperbole, however, does not excuse this from those which pragmat. . III. We demonstrated, you defcribes. Transfer the cone RPQ, ana- theme, which Sol in safe around the top of the gnomon fcribitin a flat plane, as here you see it done in the figure attached in this first cone exactly li neam conotoma, five diame trum feCtions coni, than in ana the theme is the horizontal line GH you will arrange it; and this line, in analemmatly refers to y? , this same one you will arrange the fat in the fat cone, fit- quelinea nz This is done carefully, fe- four sides RP, feparati cone in quotli- let the parts be asquales C, D, E, S, O, and so on parallel lines on, s m, E GT, RQ sing the axis P Y, at right angles; line but n z, in the points u, x, y, Y, Z. This too after all, they were written out of the common inter- of the axis PZ, and said parallels the points of the semicircle, and mark them carefully tur point u n y Y z, conic feCtion, through these things The first figure The second figure The third figure Ouranograpbia Gnomonica. Prohyperloh
for perhSc in the circumference of the femicir straight lines will give femiordina- according to those which have been demonstrated in the cited place mouse, hyperbole demo nfl rands. Let them be transferred to another one to return the paper to any line I will write down what happens, for example, in a figurative manner, the title of which (hyperbola Cancer) conical feeding points from the cone see the letters in this figure although nuxyYz For if in parallels through hscpunda to line nz, normally du- you give the forward figure the femiordinates up, xq, yf, Ys, zt, in this figure from corre- fpondentibus points uxy yz, on both sides into hidden parallels; fecabun there are parallels in the places, -through which a curved line will give a hyperbola how many times; how much time do I spend on the clock? juxta analemma conltrudo fupra turned apply cem 2S so that vertex n, pundosS in the meridian line I have already found to, the axis of the parabola nz meridiane con gruat almost no business on the clock. What had to be done. Inhy- pcrbolis n Q, and other confcquen decribing these bonds. True, not in We spend a lot of time in matters of destiny, here are the figures I have led to the placing of hyperbolas a mouse, inscribed with the same letter; as from the first let it appear by example, in what manner in the cotes the procedure is done. For let the hyperbola n Q. trust, the cone, which the Sun in the same he will cut off the confetti around the apex of P in the anal mate, the feorifim must be transferred; Use Q q Ifypeylo! a Artis JAagntt Book V, (uriofie, n aybok H
Vraxb vine in figure n, Q. you see given; then TiTin Gno- to proceed on the same profuse basis. monica Coitfe Ba road ca tholic in which we proceed in cone For hyperbole Is it true that V m? it must be extracted from the co nus m op V in analemma, proceden while you use a hyperbole near what has been said tn t If, however, the cones of the opposing pawns ex You will be extracted with analemma, together with the diamond three conic fedtions, and juxta methos while here you proceed in the traditional manner; you will bear them dem profus by reason of pawns rum hyperbole But when these The reason for all the hyperbolas is done the most beautiful most ingenious, as ex the fubtiliffima of the immediate doctrine of the conics Educate yourself in it he should exercise the utmost confidence I'm a leader. From this method, they would cast the shadow of all you can decipher hyperboles with the easiest business; also parables and elipses, which bee on this side they would carry away the fire, you will easily attach it. Ex in which also this Catholic confederacy form Given a parallelogram of ftells, from a cone, which I moved around the center of the gnomon fi would cast a shadow in a plane parallel to
quidiflante, he would convey, a parable, hyper bolam, ellipsis, than in any other to draw a plane given a conotome, to find See what we learn about this in Geography we treat gnomonics more vaguely. No, he will only use half-hyperboles to bear away the boreal figs: for what reason, for they are not all together with the others If you want to explore, it must be opened. Pragmatism II. Given the hemihyperbola of any fignf byper- the whole hall together with the opposite hyperbole. to carry the circus Q It, for example, femiarchus, fivefemihv- Perboia on the clock neata, and the other part of the hyperbola, united when faced with hyperbole, have confidence things; proceeding thus.
Get the diameter of the hyper transfer bolaru oppofitarumss&qo, fivequod dem efl, the diflation of the two tropics in the south, which; becomes, for example, imprefen- your figure is NO; the hemihyperbola becomes NV: pundta GH however afimpta, or from com the preparation made, five foci of hyperbolas you will have, fi in the gnomonic triangle the equatorial diameter from the point com the meridian munition, and the fc from the point xx. transfer to the south. For have bis Gfocumhyperbolae ss. Opposite H you will have, be from OB, you will restore OH, the shark NG Then half NO, inK, afluman- tur in VN, any pundta Q, R, S, T, X, through which from K, the hidden circles are drawn: de other secret circles, or only ar where the circles are drawn: for where these ex on the other side of the clock the previous circles let them watch, through that pundta, the other part hyper bola is to be led. If again at intervals HM, HN, HO, EIP, HQ, on either side of H, in the center of the hearth of the fire you will draw circles, they will grow those previous circles in points, through which? oppo a hyperbole must be drawn. If indeed hyper to carry the balls of the remaining parallels if you trust, you will proceed with the same probative reasoning, in which, in the heat of the tropics, they are retained pundtis GH, however you affumpis, or pun you are also given by comparison, five cent three and three reflexes. This mode is in He was a genius, and he got along with me with surprising facility He has wealth attached to it; why should he Ty- tones fertile modmopc son Gnomonic Ouranography. let them make the snoring familiar to me, I promise. Pragmatism III. Hyperbola arcs Jtgnprum Jolo fili didlu in the horizontal plane defcrthere. the other part, and the other a hyperbola of motion he was more promiscuous in reason than in problem as we proceed, it will be written down. But that this is Father Grinberger's method nB memory; excellent fane, genius IilS. A Take first from the analemma of the mustache of the cone, whose reading, let us defy the hyperbola, the diameter GK, with the diameter ejuf demfedionisIA, quo bafisKG, halved tur in and from this perpendicular axis ID, fume IB, double iphius IG, IC, three Pragmatism. IV. Qonic feSlions of arcs of clay in a plane to break off the tangents horizontally. A Take the resulting table, apply the pamt first with the meridian gnomonic triangle NgemiL of parts, of which reda GI, is reda fic GC, is a necephalary of parts and the same ocalis redo CD for they leave out of and in this way you will determine the axis IB, punda from the comparison of fada C, D, ver but if you cross A B, you will find a fic. Ipfi DG faces oqualem DE, &EF oqualemipfi GC, or DC, CF divide the bifurcation at A, where is the vertex of the hyperbola difcribend? : ver tex B, however, is regarded as the opposite of faith; let AC be equal to BD, or let AB be equal ipfi FD Furthermore, a rule is attached about the cent trum D, movable length DG; at length I give the son CG, or EF, one of the ends of which is fixed there in C, the other in the extremity of the ruler, and so the graph, twisted threads near the line by loosening the rule of confidence, GEK hyperbola. In other words: they are bound C, C, the foci of the needle, and the two threads round it they are carried, which is twisted through the hole of a needle falls on A, the top. Then loosen the threads gradually advance the needle from A AB, in a plane horizontal and there will be a line to the center A clock, normally doubtful line with a sword to B normal two give four dial; to Q normal fine duda gnomon QC
the clock was written horizontally according to the reasons and rules in the process teeth Then add CQ, di- I live first in water parts reponden- teeth fine parts, transfer in the parts of the thread from A, the center of the clock in touching the corresponding hourly lines of the pawns, beginning with ss, according to order in the table of notes; pound ssre- perturus, acdpe tangentem in par with these phytyls, and it towards the south whether it is transferred from A to the center of the clock, that mm will be a pound of in what Yes but they If you trust me, take it tangent and it in parts of fty I draw a line from the center A to the point R you will transfer laughing: for that will be a burden how much Not the feces of others in parallel you will find rum punda at any hour data But this is done with the easiest thing, that one and to make it clear by another example, And the hgc board is made by art propofito oftenfoquein Probi. X. fol. Furthermore, the map is there for all of Europe you will find the elevations of the pole fupputatatn, ex in which every hyperbole of the horizon selecting the appropriate tables will be able Qq Table QttilltM you give the sixth so JIO mArtismagm Book V. Gnomon, Curio fis. 'Tubular sinuses of net tangents for arcs in a horizontal dial.
Hours Dragging Touching Touching Touching Touching Touching Tangents jHorse A. M. P M P M P M P. M P M p' M P M P. M.
The craft can be made from a board From the length of the shadows, be the height do you have a competent shadow at every hour? when draw out the tity, and put it out of the place of determine through the hourly lines. Innumerable In this place I would like to introduce other methods. It is true, since they are among others; Authors, Clavius, Sclranerum, Mauro- ly with, they are contained; I leave them behind. The bows of the pawns are also inscribed with the help Almucantaro-azymuthic tableau? fic See where Azymuth, Almucanta- they will kill the sun at the beginning of the con- flituto, that the table Almucantaro-azymu- the bag would run away from you; for let the numbers be Azy muthicos, Almucantaricos in the area com muni, and at those from the south-north which, hofce in finding Azimuth, compu tes: where they have slain in vain, there shall be You will proceed to develop rare lines. Ve rum with all the fury of anger they will be delivered, here we are going to explain them We really wanted to. Problem V. Are the pegs in the vertical plane to decrile TEfcrib are the arc of the pegs in the vertical with the same profanity as in the hour zontali: fola difference in the triangle gno it is a monastic application; so that the angle completion of the elevation of the pole, which is in the plane it was founded on a horizontal plane, in the vertical is merged to the common axis, and the meridian point of intersection. True Let's go through the fungi briefly. Pragmatism I The third method is for Vertical. let the gnomonic triangle A vmicalh BCD, thus the meridian in the vertical plane, as A, becomes the angle of elevation of completion poles, and AB will be the BC of the radius of the follower. A Ppli June DB gnomon, AC meridian line; in the hour. but VR, horizontal, IT line hors fexra Gnomonic Ouranography. girdled, CSaequinoitial. They are then painted in the plane of propofito horaeaftronomica, which bus through the fruitfulness of this induftria bes The radius of the aquifer i is divided by the first CB in the Zodiac radiofoin ten, or a hundred or a thousand watery parts instead of the end of the whole the fruitfulness of the hours from noon in parts of the line CB, j according to table x for problem go ahead transfer from B, in CZ, ra long water; for by this pun cta from A, the hourly radius leads obliquely the beams of the wood are bent at the points, after which from fmgula from A intercepted rurfus from the center From the clocks to the hourly lines transferred, they will give the points of the wooden bows quafita Thus fspaces between A, and punita ray rum. i radiotsabfciflorum ex the center of the vertical clock in q. f. they will give the hours transferred, through which tranfibit hyperbola The same about others to protect
The second method is the easiest with two threads. P Let two lines be drawn at right angles in E, fe killing, but to the line AB, at A, the normal is drawn TaS. Second, to this line AS apply the triangle gnomon light when he was turned cali, so that AB line axis mun give, AS agree, and it will be CB Ity game, BD ray of water, AD south line at o'clock u t here the figure of the pri ma oltentit Yes but the hours of thee knowledge for flat horizon such trusts; a triangle horizontal gnomonic, ie lt inverted You will apply a triangle instead of a vertical line AT. Third, the ED interval was referred to femi- circle ADB, divided into parts in which the fmgula was punished equally by the divisions You will join the remote paths with hidden lines, carefully noting where the line ED fe cerit: f nt, however, the points of intersection of EFG HIR- Fourthly, the Zodiac will be applied again diofus was the center, punit B, of the triangle gno monicus in a fertile frame, so that BD, radio let the water be restored, and all things will be restored in the femininity of the former figure, besides the limbs AE, AB, &ED; also in the Radius of the Zodiac all shall be restored, except that the edge shall decline of the wood of the equator BY; and I would have an intrument of bows of wood rum prepared for the most easy extraction, fllraxisprocedentes Organi. With the help of that intrument, any data A hour, punished in it, by which he was given the sun's parallel tranfeat, diito faster, and thus the arc of all parallels we will find almost no business. Let it be in to come and be punished by in the 3rd or 9th hour. aftronomica extend the wire B, like a cen tro affixum fupra punished parallel the other wire from A, as if in the center of the copper given hour in line ED. For if fpace between A, and punished by the thread of feition the rum intercepted by the tranltule from the center clock on the three o'clock line; that will be a pun thus the given hour. Let it be again to be attached to the penalty of in the o'clock line. let two threads be extended from A, B; that through at p. m. on the ED line; this from B by M punished parallel in the limbo Tigno rum If, therefore, there is a space between A and Purnhum of the intersection of the wires of the tranltule, from you will have to turn the clock to the o'clock line acquired Don't rabbit on other people's pa Itatues found the rallels punished. The third way is through conics f e Silones. He who knows the bow of wood through a cone protect the fetions from the anal mate re in the horizontal plane, as in Pragma- tial. . II. of the preceding problem it is, he will be able to put them on the plane for the same reason verticali defcribere, fi in analemma com the tasks of interception are punished by the vertical plane lis, and the beaks of the Sun parallel to the line transfer the south from the place of Ityl; through for she was punished under Pragmatianj ibid traditionally, two hyperbolas will give an arc Artis Mapm Uber V. Gnom: Qtriofi: . Rest of the lambs: to whom and to whom m Problem II. dida are about conotomy projections, to this vertical also mmodari polish The fourth method by conotomlm project Ilions It is a gnomonic triangle for a plane vertical Abcd, and the radii are produced sinE fk BC, in E, &ABS in V. to this the triangle will be applied to the Radius of the Zodiac in b, so that the radius of the water body is the radius bcE con crane, and common slaughtering punda parallels with the meridian line and they turned away from the pile of wood ces of hyperbole to be conveyed. This at the end, from the mass T, where the radius makes AF, meridian Tqo in four, or If you like other parts of KIHG, you will divide the water; of the twelve K, to the normal axis KS, known twice where it will make the line AF similarly in the line TA, which Toor parts xquale deter mina and linen TXYZ to for here are normal parallels la: , 8c hidden: duda: end ter they will give less ordinarily ap to be folded into a hyperbola If, therefore, from A, by punda KI, HG, you led the circles, feca- they will be parallel lines of order to apply the nose in the pun push through which the hyperbola will be transferred In the same way for give way to hyperbola defcri- to be made, Himself parallel to any other. of this moAmtioaem see Cupra in Peotheoria III. &apud Clavium eap. ii. novaedeferi pfion clocks Problem VI. .
Armsfigmmm in clocks: vertical decBncmtibm lefcrilere. In these, the reason is almost the same as in the vertical to the children for it is oftenfum as fupra all the plains of South Africa declining, somewhere in the Ephthorian region zontal or vertical direction. If therefore in you come to which region the clock is declining from the top becomes horizontal; dabuntarcus figno and according to the various practices in Problem IV. edodas in the same clock rum Or be vertical for completion elevation of the horizontal pole before the collision Ouranographla Gnomonica, 3tj the bow of the pawns near the praxes in the procession delivered to the teeth, the bow of the pawns rice; the same clock will appear vertically, horizontal, declining shark. True with what caution in this pragmatism it is necessary to give way, to explain a little more vaguely I married Let it therefore be a plane declining in the East steps to the elevation of the pole of Rome nor next to the prizes. First you will drive neo Ityli from the meridian declination, which fol. we taught to find. Secondly, the elevation of the plain of Ityl. as soon as the place cited was delivered you will find Let the triangle be a gnomon given the plane of the elevation of the pole EXK, for the line of Ityl CE, on the clock based on declination, and ZK will be the radius of squatter, CZftylus, EZ axis. touching therefore, the wall's inclination to the horizontal the line translated will give the point R, by which will give the meridian due to the return of E five The tangent of the complement of inclination in the opposite direction of the horizontal li nea: the translated part will give the point A, the first common vertical slaughter rii line: hors fexts, equinoctial That fi K, with pundto A, in redas con you will draw, you will have depicted through the pumfta from E you will lead the straight lines; they will make here are the rays of the pegs in the punfts, whose intervals from E, from the center of the clock in li transferred to correct hours dabuntarcus of pawns in declining quazfi- cough Further, if in a horizontal clock, which is equal to the vertical declination (which m' by which reason it should be found, in the place cited it has been said) the bow of the pawns by the same Profound practices in the horizontal clock tra riches, fervent yet fervent, incripfer; you will have in a given plane an arc of pegs plants If, indeed, I am attached to this kind of tedium ciant, the mechanical operations, which in We will produce those who are fruitful, who will be able to use them but with almost no business at all will prevail. Problem VII. In the clocks inclinantihm adhorlpntem to inscribe the bow of the pawns. If, then, the gnomonic triangle was declining from the plane, equal to that found elsewhere a horizontal clock cube. Zodiaco ra diophos you have adjusted in such a way that EZ becomes the axis, ZK ray of water, ECK line of phthyli, five the meridian of the declining plane, ZC fty- game Rurfus fi favor table: z. leaf m the problem of a declining clock propofitas, producing tangents from the line phytyl in the equinoctial, from the Z center of the radius Traftulaire in the ray of the follower of the zodiac. Um leaning clock nothing else fmt, than some horizontal fub cer as wide as the table fol. in pro The propofita teaches about the problem of those who incline: If, therefore, the juxtaposition given in Problem IV. about the bows of the pawns tiasin with some horizontal clock nanti correfpondente, quoted by the table so having found the arc of the incripfer, the plane that from the horizon near the degree of inclination, so that the meridian line is meridian: correct If you lift it up, the gnomon will show it the parallels of the sun are quaffitos: this problem when it is most easily done, further explanation He does not seem to need it. , Problem As they recede from the horizon I draw a bow write rum As the receding from the horizon nothing litid fint, than in some places the vertical decline nantia: fi per fecund table fol. in Problem VI. conftruftum horolo a vertical declination declination to any one looking back from the horizon, you will find in it the arch of pawns near the Problem incripferis; you will have what you need. Or be turned horizontally clockwise
an arc equal to the declining heat near the praxes in Problem IV. the traditional incripferis They will say that the bow will fall for the clock swimming from the horizon Anyone Catholic therefore horizontal or vertical re, or delete any lines left in them he knows how to deny, in all other planes the same Rr 'fc in- zArtis magm Book V. Gnomon. Curio he knew that he would register- When no ho the clock becomes so irregular that no other a horizontal cube, or a vertical cube, or one of these it becomes a millet. Problem zAnacepbaLoticon, unherfale, which ar- per termination-hours m on any given plane, hell will be taught there: Cg1 made of a wonderful piece of wood from Abacus fol. I want -Uicunqi Xfechone; already know common mter-. the reading of the horary circles, and
of the parallels of the Sun, he will have a method Ingenious, hyperbole So larium on any plane rum which method is briefly set out here a mouse; extracted from the wonderful term Abaco of the nation's hours, fuprafolio propo- become fit First, it is taken from the marvelous Pinace bells are feparata, cujufmodifequens is. Explanation of TabuL. O Rimo, the hours on the front AB are marked with wood the hours by which the others are to be terminated: B hours column AC hours in ae the pole of the five-night clock ridiem: hours columnBD the hours are before the equinox noon: the middle hours they will give the points pa the rallellos of the Sun were betrayed. Therefore, in any clock, for example horizontal, or in any other way the plane, the hours after nomic with half Which when you finish the hours, fire de- in it you draw the parallels of the Sun Pragmatic Canons IF you want parallel registration an hour later five per column mam: with the first help of the Zodiac, the radiation is in the meri diana linea horologiques punCta pa of rales But if for an hour i. five fruitful column; in rich lines the horary points of the parallels were first discovered gandafunt. If by column o. in it then the hourly line of the PunCladiCtorum arcuurr you will inquire of the pawns. Given, therefore, in which no matter the hourly lines, the points of the pegs you will find a copy of the preceding table in the matter liquid hours puncta, through which the arc of the pawns they are leading If, therefore, through the column of pri mam, hocefliz than us paradigms we have taken the place, the termination is to be instilled; so it must be done. Canon I InvenireptmBa tropical in hour $Mi. You would like to finish the first hour, ap- fold the rule four hours iz. in punClo o, fupra an hour before in equi nodtial, as the column AC where hour is done, there is the point of the tropics. is made by art the ending hour is If again the rule put the fourth hour at in point io, fu before half an hour that is l before A B marks the beam BD; where the hour will fecabitur, there is a pun- Clum tropic io. You see there are hours to be terminated they must, femper the middle to occupy the column Apply the fu rule pra pun&urn in li nea meridiana, five waste? before and where at it will be fecundated, there will be a pundtum b, velxt. Rurfus fupra same before the preferred rule, see where the hour will be done: il for the game is punflum, it will be a puncture, through which the Sun in
Apply the rule of the fourth stitch ttp, 8c X found in the meridian line, and you see where the hour will be made Ctum will cross the parallel fiC&V. If the truth is true you will apply it, it will lick the hour through which np} Sc Xparallel will pass. You see he was born Ouranographia Gnomonici i J therefore with what ease and pleasure And if you apply the rule of the golden pound Oi! in the line of honor i. ix. ii. he will give a pound of interception in the line ho rre io a pound, through which will be transferred. And let the punda be parallel to the Sun Canon InvenirepunSlaparaUelontmin hour z. A Pplica rule fupra pundu qo in li- nea meridiana, fife ix. and four hours i. in the equinoctial, as the column AC often he says, what hours x beside the columns refpon- give, see where the rule will make the hour x by him for the tropical game will pass Again ap
fold the rule four hours stupidity at the equator, as the column BD shows, dtvide where the hour x will be killed by it for the tranfibic tropical io Monkeys liter of the remaining parallel punda re you will perish Canon III. fro punUis paratlelomm in hour A Pplica the first rule of the Fpundu ix. tropic io, fupra between x. as the first column teaches, and see where the hour is will be done: for by this the weight will be cut tropic Again apply the same rule lam fupra E, fupra j between in co lumna BD, see where the 3rd hour will be made it will be transferred to the tropics. If the rule caveris, fupra between x. will give you at the hour of a pound, by which parallel fit V, np tranfeat Pun above whereas Y is parallel, and X is applied to the object Gluttony and gluttony will give a pound of injury ralleli oppofitiPorro rule ap folded fupra E, fupra linter in column BD, will refresh in line hours. a pound, through which I will be transfixed compare the order of the hours in the columns henfar will proceed until the punda is paralyzed You will be caught in the dark hours. Canon IV If Vero punSta parallels in hour no you will find that they were so in all the rest of the hour riis lines punished, through which? parallel tranfire debentfubjidio columnte x. number JtveMNfi'gnata, this induftria. pounds for example at hour x in trust to come; see what garden in x quinodial, ideft in columns AC, &BD ipfi refpondeant, and find x there you apply the rule of the fupra pundu io in o'clock and between ix. in equi- nodial: he will do it at x hour. in pound, by which will be transfixed. If you apply the rule below I put a pound in and put between and bit rule at hour x pounds. you will have a tropical io pound in hour x become you will apply the rule of thumb o'clock and half hour between and Whatever we speak here of the tropics, and of the rest in parallel The dispute also becomes a little one, as in Canon L we are afraid Note parallel pounds have been known hourly line o. will boil for you a third filter na fixed with the same number; they have been known in the 9th hour, the fourth pillar will burn for you, for determining the remaining hours, and fic about the rest. Why hxG dida briefly let them hurry He who trusted more, let him go rubs the book Where is this wonderful Abacus? we have declared And Eli this artificer of such an immensity, and such a combination the heat proceeds, so as to scarcely exhaust the pof- faith may be seen; and we brought it out of hiding a certain hyperbolic property of faith you, what book part. x. theory ix. in need we were I have no doubt that the curious fa- Gax Ledor, when he had penetrated here, he was unnamed ra becomes another thing to find for this matter belonging, penetrated by no one. True to these having briefly indicated, now proceed to other things the wall Problem X Mechanics of the infcrtption of arcs. Pragmatism Injlrumentum obfervatorium of archers to inscribe X J Aria are designed by artists in ftrumentaadarkusfignoruminfcriben- gift But with their device, as plu toil the rim; therefore I omit them we will bring them quickly and easily to be compared And so the bow of the pawns almost no business in any business fcribes with the help of the intrument of this obfervator instead of propitiate It is therefore placed in this the intrument table ABCD, in eminence part E, the prototype clock that at least together with the registration of the Zodiac, that is it is with the bows of the pawns ptis Then a flat table is placed: whatever the plane of declination, turn strongly inclined, or declining; to become a plane from the south EV, in the east degrees of inclined, you will spread the vertical plane like this reason, as the mustache of the plane cumjinea EV, tabu let it contain the angle of declination of the finger. Rr Quo cubusfublato trigono loco O, nodum fub- the trees, the shadow of which took refuge in the place of the summit gnomon, the place of the Sun within the arc often give Note that all the other mecha- Artls magnx Lnbet V Gnomon. Curiofx. With which fado turns the whole 5th day, until um arm of the gnomon in the prototype by means of molds draw parallels. As long as this is done, the same
at the time the shadow of the fthyliin plane was declining you will notice; and for this reason I gave more quickly, faithfully you will be able to take advantage of it. A Take the enclitic intrument, which a fruitful figure teaches; whose table Draw ABCD in such a way that its plane is given inclination, or declination which whatever he reports Therefore in this table pla I did not stick to the phytyl, with the firmness of the whole fyftemate ABCDGLOE, given the fufra form, as in the place his brother was drunk. This is done from the box by the clock in table X. previously sketched, on an inclined, inclined, or declining plane nantly, the clock obtained by the same the fusion with which in the previous intrument it is done, you write; points of shadows in the table ABCD, by fixing it, according to the motion of um brae ftyliin clock and tablet archetype Xi unregistered Pragmatics IL Fili duBtt tdem in quoYis plane to complete DUfta in the plane of any line garden n. AB, and the axis AC, in it next to the gnomonic triangle and having established the plane, you attach to it the ra- diofu Zodiac wooden table in- fcriptum, thus to the axis OA, becomes straight. But let it be so fixed in O pun cto, as to rotate Indeed, it was placed around the axis, the place au do not change the theme at all. After this, let the thread be extended from O cieam map of the Zodiac radiofi freely he shaves If, therefore, I were a thread of this kind for the radius ss to be extended so that the fem- Rede the said ray, and so on run into the wall, he will tell that on the wall cusss must be brought down; fi gyrate cir with the trigonal axis of the Zodiac, the thread of fu for the same radius is returned let him stay, he will bring the wire to the wall If the wire the rest of the rays will be stretched out, de the scribes correppnding him on the wall bow The reason is clearest for him who is a son a long time ago in the ray of the Zodiac Solis referent, redeconfide- rite Therefore, having registered in this way the ar- the only inferences, which in other Autho- things are considered, and so far prophesied dear Wings Ouramgraplh Gnomonica Problem XI. ilmucantaras, Aywutha given plains to write Pragmatism I In the horizontal peak, "vertkali4 rfo
Another method by jfybtfram hollow IF anyone in the hemisphere fphsrio concave hours of all kinds, to use lines cGeleftes incripferit: then of the two tropics the tore has fallen; apply then the center of the hemispheres I was the tip of the thread, and I was guided by the thread from the same center through Ctumhors iz- in the wall, so that the thread for both n. when in the hemifphsrio, as well let it rest on the wall, perfect Cte will be fit. If, therefore, by lum fupra hooves hourly punda on the wall and everything to extend the thread on the wall punda ea- hours, when you come back a clock on the wall together with the bows of the trees they will form so, apply that line to the left in such a way that A pound, D in the center, fire instead of gnomon, BY line I corresponds to a. After this, juxtaBY side in a line of Ia punda degrees on the side BY woodcuts, print; through which, be from the center of the lines you draw, they will give you vertical lines five Azymutha qusfita Which names ros, in the order in which the timbers are to be made in the rule. you add Again, be on the side of the rule B Y, lines YR, so app be careful, as B center, feu place of the gnomon D ob tineat, punda gra two things in it they will give the circles out of place gnomon D, per dida A degree of punda defcri- ptiAlmucantarasqusfitas. turn-around on a plain plane, how to Almucantars, Veniali And the azimuths must be inscribed, I taught mouse in Prs exercise IV. of this pit From which it will also be clear that which the time lines in the polar time He knows how to laugh; it is also in the vertical Azy A mutha knows how to write: for she is the reason at all, as in Protheory III, we have demonstrated the fuse. pragma Artis MagmUberV. (unofe. Pragmatism II. Almucantaras in the aquinoSlial plane, Inscribe the azimuth. TTJ Two lines AB, CD, are drawn to re&os fe inrerfectantes in A, and it will be CD ho horizontal, from the true diameter equinoCtia- issue Or the lines ii. the triangle will be adapted gnomonic meridians AB let the angle Abd contain the degree of elevation nis polyfub given width, and will contain
angle A, or dbc the angle of completion horizontal Why did it happen? all the circles have hours from noon and midnight, and the axis of the world with the horizon te, the plane ipfi parallel, so they have Azimutha, and their common axis of birth, viz. , the horizon with the sejuatore, no squidding him, the only difference what is said in the horizontal dial equinoCtial, in this place it is called the horizon a lawsuit; And that there the line hors fexts, here turned the heat becomes the primary line. If, therefore, the line Ab in the gnomonic triangle you transfer to S, but which from the same circle is divided into parts you will decrypt the life, they will give out of S lines of reed by the divisions drawn in the horizontal CD the points through which from C, the right center of the wing: dudts, there will be vertical qusfits. demon The significance of the matter is clear from what has been said. But you can eat from the analemma Pre-exercise of this chapter you inferred it if you wished. Suppose a squatter with the axis of the world around the center of the analemma tisverfatilem, this pact, as equinoctial let the shore occupy the axis of the horizon. What do I do? in lpfo analemma fol. propofito, in of elevation li, namely of the fourth queCpunClum vertices If you go there are horizons the clock draw and to this plane so impoverished as a center its center C the line of mere diana lineac let it rest, ftendet db Ity vertical game make up circles fortnight a fortnight; for it is turned calium feri- afirwmi- ptio in equine -CcC on that plane he was a prodigy, what lines will you draw? in the e-plane the axis of the world SE, what is smoked DP, whose point P is drawn by the normal KL, which made the horizontal BC Siigi- tu r a T, beginning, fpacia MNlO, from From a horizontal line to a point in the plane transfer the equinoctial clock to the south for verfusC, you will have points, fire vertices hyperbole; by which, be according to the rules, pragmatism in Progymnafmate III. to use in delivered to the preceding, conotomicaspro you will decipher the throws, they will give you Al you've made fun of them; noting carefully whose side of the cone is equidistant the matter, for by that not pa a rasp will have to be drawn, of any kind in this matter rologio equinoCtiali elt Almucantara. But if he neither touched the cone, nor breathed done, it will be Almucantara that ellipfis, to use here which are well to be noted. Note above terea aT verfusL Almucantaras fereriptas to belong to a lower plane. Another very easy way is to use Altriu's cantaro-azymutham A Gnomonic triangle is added two lines AC? AB, in the figure ra- do you love? Ouranography diofa, so that BD meridians, lines AC in in the equatorial plane between the center C, ver ticis, &pundum A, common slaughter the horizontal snow, and the meridians But AB the sharks Iit Ab, AD the sharks b O From A also in the figure attached to each in the interval the quadrant ABC is defcribacur in i. or degrees by lines, which are Al- mucantars, rich When I have finished this, take it I will contradict the rule of width Ab, lines the gnomonic triangle, and next to it here applied to AB degrees, as you see, with numbers. If so exD a radial shape through these pundas you will lead They will make the lines of the quadrant from A I wonder where it is from the center of the plane squinodial into vertical lines first de- lined up duds will give Al- qusfitas mucantaras Thus the space between D, AE intercepted, and from C in the south Gnomonlca. q for tradudyim, he will give punda Almucanta rs on the AC line. Siveropundum Almucantars to have faith in the same res, fpacium between Fradium quadran give tis from C, transposed to the meridian bit qusfitum, fic de cesteres If indeed piety would trust in the vertical Almucan- taram it qusrat in the line AB the radius vertical and in the quadrant BC, Almu- I would sing o. For where these two let them tetfe, that is to say, in Yj ibipofito cirini with the other foot intercept the pound D, and transfer this interval from C in the vertex lem on both sides of the squinodial plane, ha- bebifque punda Almucantars qusfi-
ts; for in these the Sun is degrees below this an elevated plane will cast a shadow; not fe- cus of the Almucantars you will work From this it is also clear, by what reason not very easily all this registration with the help of two A&D fixed wires becomes And this is the easiest way of all a mouse, and much more expedient for going forward; Why? Ledorifuaferiim to employ him. Problem tAlmucantaraS) Aymutha in the plane to bring down A zymutha, five vertical lines in pla- no polar inferipts, fi are smoked through fifteen and fifteen degrees, you are the same are with the hourly lines on the clock ver tical If, therefore, the vertical clock do not apply to the polar, as the south line Na meridian? let the polar bear answer, and instead of you put rare molds fifteen degrees, up to you will have vertical polar clock: fig. for you have faith in the hourly circles with the axis of the world to the spring plane ticalis squidiftans; so vertical circle with horizontal axis ad polar plane, five circle rs The only difference is that where is the squinodial in the vertical, in this it becomes horizontal, where in The vertical line is hors in this becomes vertical If therefore in this ho clock, so you will apply the triangle gnomonic light, as in vertical in the interval EB, he drew the line ho horizontal in the meridian line ex Decrypt a circle in parts, be they quinos or denos, fifteen degrees for capacity tateplani divifum, redafque oc worshiped from the center to each hour you have brought a zontal; they will give to others give back Attis Magna Uber V. Gnom; (jlriofie. red from the cent through the vertices points on the hour zontal wood ta dudte, turned you are hot. Almucanta shave them too the profuse for this reason vertical incribes, which case in hand the tooth of the clock gio didis turned with the heat of the fire; gnomon triangle when you apply, such as line CE, line CA, in radiofafigure, EB verolineaeBC, &CB, finally, let B replace A. Then rule la let the line BE be equal to fcala contradi, juxta than on the side BD print the points of the steps, through which then of the vertical from B guides. Then from Ara- transfer the two-dimensional figures to Almucantaras in ver the ticks of the clock, with the foot of a polished circus in the spring point C: with the other in the vertical correc- fpondentes: there fpacium AD in radiofae figu rae meridiana fixed at translated from C in the meridian line there while Almueantarae And there you will be killed must proceed. Problem In the south plane, use in all others declining vertically, Almucantaras, A zymutha of the lower er e. TN for all vertical planes but to those who decline, I give the same profanity it is Almucantararum and Azymuthorunl system of writing I therefore favor Re tis verticalis Imucantaro -azymuthici fo lio propofiti, St here repeated, in data in any vertical frame, Aimucanta- ras, azimutha incribes, those there, reason Let me first be given a plane ridianum It is applied in the southern plane mentioned Rete this clothing, as a line Meridian Retis, fivc vertical refpon let the primary line be vertical, and the horizon The Hodzont network of the meridian plane as well fpondeat When this is done, the needle is punda common vertical intersections with horizontals in the fubjcdo plane no you take for by these lines the rede to the horizon tem normal, they will give vertical; hypdrbo But the Duke will give Almucantaras: and no the mere femper of Almucantatarum indeed ma they are not the same; But they change the azimuths there, so that in the meridian plane in the first Azy- You put the mute o, and on both sides the rest of the vertical lines ros each at ras, St. Azymutha inferipta meridian plane Let the vertical plane be already given south to either side or that it is the same, if it is to the east, or to the west Declining steps: apply to this plane we have mentioned the truth of the truth, so that let the center of the vertical AC be perpendicular to the vertical in the middle, on the floor, steps from the south, or from the vertical primary declining, then of needles in the fubj edo plane of verticals,
of the horizontal punda fixed back con join, you will have Almucantaras, Azy- the mutha was brought down to the plain: this offering give Gnomonic Ouranography. iJniifium Gnomon he said do, as the middle of this vertical plane o. app nas, then to the rest of those who bore other fe when the order is made
nonfecusdeomnibusaliisplanis you will proceed as they decline. Whence the greater you will be able to work with ease; let the numbers be recorded in order; as meeting with some declining plane, fupra the vertical medium, the meridian fire of the floating plane, the number of the declining wall in apply the parchment written on it; meet ret femper the order of the finished fe in order of the vertical: that all things are in flight, and experience They will teach better than I or many of them to fold Qonfeclarmn I Jm r T Inc. it is clear that a certain way is to be admired, with the help of this network I gave that quickly delineate the declining force d of the vertical poles, fi from the map Almucantara-azymuthica com functions of killings of vericals, Al- of the mucantara, the aftronomic hours in the tabu refpondentes la order, aci culae in fubjedo denote the plane, for by these from the center redo the clock: they will give the hours of the plane leaning Qonfeclarium II. U Inc is made further, don't miss any a kind of lines, or circles in the sky ftium, which I gave more quickly with the help of this network I circled through the tables of the didos Rum is not to be given at any level. Ma fane gnum, infigne into a gnomonic, ark whether True when hafl all fufier in fe Let us declare with these four books, that is, Ledore we let go Problem Circles of houses in the sky on the plane of the hour zontal defcrilere. From Pplicato, therefore, the south line nalem CA, feepius propofito triangle zheapofa it is fadus, and ST is equinoctial, DB lylus fimul, vertical line. If therefore in menctni in regulafcalam expanfam (whose latitude tan-Plano the edge of the degrees of the equinoctial ST you will apply, and next to it whose and who of ours, or of degrees and degrees punda you will notice: they will give p er fingula pun- draw lines parallel to the south qusefiras of pofitions near the mind of Regio- they mounted, and through the clay o. steps punda parallel duda line of houses cce- leftium, fingulcc parallel degrees middle house His method Of the circles of Pofitions, Jive of twelve the number of houses in any given plane drawing What is the fint of the circle of pofitions, and what the line of the houses of the nobles is long gone in ApparatuProtheoria I. where a double pro- We took the method of Motote: one of Campani, who giomontani groups of people through common inter- faiths of the horizon, and the meridian, and The first vertical step leads to the second the rational Regiomontani, who by the same horizon and meridian intersections, and the equatorial parts of the earth will be described as circles. ModusCrfMj-Both methods for any given plane We will teach you how to write. We assume that go in this place to the equatorial tropics, ho a horizontal line, next to the preceding in given the plane previously sketched. Where do I go? to work T Dem you will have, fi AB the radius of the triangle gno- -monici, exAin E tranftuleris, &exEcir- you will decipher the parts of the rich; for he made an equinoctial radius in the pit push through which parallels to the south They will give the circles of pleasure. But if in any rule (whose lat I equaled the five gnomon DB rit) fcalam expanfam fupra vertical li neam MN in the 2nd figure you have applied, fin the gluttony of five and a half dozen or a mark of three hundred degrees of punda rice they will give parallels to the meridian line for the fruitful lines of the dubious powers The bell: and when each house had a ninth p. steps are done, you will have the lines fex do-cmdHm gra- two pounds parallel a little diftindio things you have led, parallel for degrees punda dudes will give half the house Ss pe Artis Magnis Book V. Gnom: (uriofh, and by any io gradus. dabuntrertias parts, fic about the rest. He will preface the same a circle of (whose center only from ver
Tikal MN diftfet, what is the height of Ityl) registered, and divided into parts. where for a line drawn by degrees from the center of V: let them make a vertical line, from them to the south rallella drawn; they will give birth, as fertile the figure is startling. Finished fcriptions castle houses "O Atet, the polar clock, the south fire int com whether, on the horizontal plane, nothing else let it hang as the roof of the old houses, near Campanus If, therefore, that plane is given if you attach it, it will bring you whole houses with it by means of which instead of the number of hours rewrite the numbers of the houses, as here you see it done. But when the sun sets first, it is done at the end any dpmus, than in the beginning, because I a muum coelefti was made to face the shore after it is the meridian: let it be by spoons. points of degrees diftinfti from the place of fty- If you draw these lines, you will have a warm house near Regiomontanus, as in the first figure
S Juxta Cam- y? bread According to Re giomonta nitm. than Jto Irneis, the grace of the word i. Ref let the Sun shine at the end of the house, and The same di let us tell about the steps of the police, who three times they are threatened in the south, which is degrees game of desire Of fignification, ufu, the quality of these houses, the circles that of power, see in Gnomonic noftra Phy- fig-aftrological Pragmatism II. Describe the same house in a vertical plane. First, the meridian will be applied to the triangle gnomonic for vertical conftru ctum: then prepare an expanded rule as wide as the radius of water toris in the gnomonic triangle: this app ca aquinotial, juxta degrees quinos, de we, who are fifteen, print punfta in it: j by means of which the leader was removed from the place of the gnomon laugh, you will have groups of friends, of which! I said: SUCH. House ca read (read juxta Regiomon buried in mere plane diano he went parallel to the aquarator, ref and draw the lines drawn from the center of Ityl of the fiitions near Campanus. If, therefore, the judge ta steps in the rule side pundta lazy in the fubjedt plane, they will give through it from the place Ftyli redtg drawn circles of pofitions, per clay degree points of the house ftes juxtaCampanum, as a barren figure it is clear Reason from ipfa police, guidance cir the darkness is so clear that there is no explanation not need You will also have the same, be ex instead of a circle in iz, divide the waters into parts you will unscramble the life; divided by points They will give a circle in the center of the river The lines of the houses were turned in a plane cali, near Campanus. ConfeBarium. PATet therefore, the equinoctial clock in the vertical plane of the pofkum, refer to the lines were hours home lines rum coeleftium with means near Campa whether do rule, line hour Let the CD ref: deiryde' juxta her pundta hedtemoria, or print the trimorium in the aquinodial MN; through for they are parallel to the horizontal line drawn in the meridian plane will give the means and entire houses left, in both pla- you will apply, as the meridian line, the eastern and western mountain Pragmatism III. Inscribe the same meridian plane from the twelve-part rule, or hcctemoriam, than the quinceanera lem. MN, thus drawn in the meridian plane OumiograpMa Gnomonica. monranus, as i. z. the figure teaches. And it will be of clay o. degrees MN in the points through which ad They will give a horizontal PC parallel dudaz qusfitum If true juxta I deny the Bell you would trust to expediency, led by commu- i. or horizontal house; the rest? the houses are placed in the order in which you see them; house in this, as iz. an hour they disappear, for reasons On the other hand NV from the V circle you will decipher: they will make, it fits; will make the levels of the rule GH, li- in which places, through which to the horizon parallel duds will give preference circles nym and domufque carieftes in the given plane qusfitos Pragmatism IV. EafJern to inscribe in the polar plane. Having first drawn in the given plane the triangle lo gnomonic, horizontal, squino- dial and vertical lines, as shown in the figure ret, take the twelve-chamber rule
fani, the width of which is equal to the height of the foot mountainous lis, and apply it to the atquinodial fupra by printing punda, by which: fi from the commune nor the intersection of the horizon IV. noon nae you will bring the reins, you will have means when in with dark houses and celefts, fertile Re- giomontanus, as figura monftratjn pla no poles delineated: Itylus in the pound, where the equator makes the meridian, it will be set normal, near the Campanian mind of the house cleftes with the means you will have this on the plane, according to the twelve-chamber rule (which: tan let it be as wide as it is in trian gnomonic throat TS) vertical lines VN applied grade points; for he was always killed out of the common weight of the horizon, and the meridian reds du- dsdabunt qusfitum, as z the figure shows
The right way that Campa whether lest the weight of the slaughter of the horizon, ae 5-week normal GH zontemPQ, which will refer to the vertical If indeed throat expands so apply spring, as a side turn of degrees heat GH, width but I give the rules phtylo sharks PQ horizon Pragmatism V. In the plane of the aquinoffiUli house the coclefles to intrude Rsfuppofita horizontal line, high- tropic red, 8c quantity of phthyl, one with the gnomonic triangle dido plane con a crane, as it has been in the past; judgment the mind of the house of Regiomontani was preserved with the means inscribed fi circle in iz. giomona whether squales parts diferiS, so as house it becomes the same as the meridian FG, and the horizon such with the house Then from H a common mass of slaughter on the horizon tis, meridians to the lines from A center cir you have drawn parallels with your ass; for hs they will give their houses According to the mind You will have bells, fi'punda equinoctial Cm: twelve-chamber vertical clock in ver- panum. ticale of the squinodial tranftular; through this for the red duds will give the house with me to the gods, you inscribed near the mind of Campani. Or, if you like, apply the dode rule a chamber as wide as a woman's diameter NM, in the gnomonic triangle; for by punda near XYfitus regulsin the vertical line is unfinished, made of the weight C re you give, you will have something. S f Problem Problem Somehow decriberc hours due to ta cr occassion he knows linesafcen my teeth de- fcriberc. Art magmhiherV, Gnomon. Curiofce Problem X V In any given irregular plan of the house defricile the ceelejles through the olfervatorium intru- chin They will be eliminated first in the clefts of the house "on a horizontal clock, or otherwise. the force of an irregular plane, the graph in the table, part E, and impofitaque ta bula on any planes, let the whole body revolve let the shadow fall, and I will draw the lines the muum coelefti terminating in the tropics; and at the same time in plain gnomes You will notice the shadows that have already been broken. For if E er consumptive points you will lead, ha- You will find the houses in the given plains you denied Problem Horofcopogmphia Signs. That jignttm of the Zodiac at any moment the shadow of time rises or sets to determine at any level A Gemus in this problem about the beach, The zodiac in the sky; as each one in heaven be then, and strengthen the police, through the shadow innotefeat. Although the Keys touch this fateful fuse laughs because many of my disciples and other ingenues, when I have no femel of the extreme obscurity of the key about this mate they will make the ria as their laudable ones promote efforts in the gnomonic business the matter, on the day I lay down to facilitate this business: quo faftum eftjUttrigonometricsg attis fub- the mode of faith must be opened a little, a ne with mine, whatever, still delivered, by which ve It could hardly be easier or more expedient I believe that at last I would escape from the end of the storm. And since this kind of lines in nothing the plane is better, and with less confusion, than in the equinoctial, it can be carried, ab we will be ordered to the beginning of the desolation. Pragmatism I f)at the parallels of the Sun, and a horizontal line in the plane as qui met i ali, of the attacking pawns line as in the same defcrilere. They were brought first, and before all things in parallel to the aquinodial plane of the pegs
with a horizontal line, those clothes which fo lio it is a fad. Since then the line fcendentium fignorum, fivefediones com the functions of the ecliptic, and of each plane at li let them have hourly rations, just as fe have a line of hours from the rise, and set down in every plane to li neas k hours at noon, middle node; when the line of the hours was drawn from the rising, and I closed the circle of the visible ones they touch the greatest of those who flee in those places, in which the same hour from noon day, and kill the middle node; so fe ha be the touching lines to the tropics, which they touch them in the places in which they are born from the hours when the horizon they would like to emerge. Incribes fublidio the table of the fruit with almost no business in the pla no aquinodial to the rest, of the fcendents, and of the defaulting figns The lines of the zodiac, as it were. Divided into a circle ADBC, through AB into the two semicircles ADB, ACB on both sides in x parts difpefces, ab By beginning the counting on both sides. And you will have, be in pundis AB, erect normal you draw a circle in contact with me Ridiani: for on these the shadow of the gnomon fell the tooth will show in a lower plane indeed fion Then the rest of the pawns the lines of the teeth are so inscribed. For line V take from the cent tro pergrad eq. SC min. in the quadrant AD in the afternoon, from A in taking the line o. c cultured, for this in the pound, where the tropic ssfecat, taken with dyeing, which will be the line P M G AM
W. Again for n to the red from the center E, by degrees min. a doubt is drawn from another tangent to tropic which will be line no. For lines to the row from the center E, by degrees min. a question concerning the tropics is drawn, which will be line and it is done on the left what will you do? Sivero by hofce eofdemgra so m The only one so Ouranograpbia Gnmomah so you will return to the south quadrant AC from the center of the E, and in the where they fall when they do, you will lead the contingent; they will give those lines for you iq quasfit. experienced and the lines of the pawns will disappear below the horizon such a line to the plane above; the rest beyond the horizontal line to the lower pla whether they will fend, in the spring of Jesus, yet for all parts, as in the clock of this plane It will go smoothly. Otherwise. If through common punda inter- of the horizon, and of the parallels of the Sun neas redas touching the tropic du you wear the lines of the trees will be immediately as before. A loxt-m
Before the meal.
Before the meal.
in table order you will work with them; this for the rule is thus rate, be the polar plane so applications, such as noon EF meridian DM re- fpondeat, punda li of knowledge in xquinodial the polar plane imprefla they will give pundas, in which the shadow of the Sun was cast in Y tur is thrown. Again note carefully punda in which the horizontal let them make the bow of the pawns in by the clock I'm looking for nodal found, by a common pound the horizon of the intervention tis, and the bow of the fign correpondent, the rein dte will give the lines of the pawns. Yes, a pound in the equatorial ante-meridian part of LM the invention of the clock: and the rejoining a pound, in which the horizontal part DCfecat arc V, will give a line extending V. So a pound n on the equinoctial side LM ho to be combined with the morning clock From what is further done, you are on the plane equinodial greater than the parallel tongues degrees of decline; to be given and given parts of the knowledge are correfpon tooth Pragmatism ll. "The Sun is parallel to the horizontal line on the polar plane, to incric the rich files. They are eaten at the first pole in the clock The arc of the zodiac signs with the horizon you then draw the lines of these bonds, as it is done. Apply the rule lam AB with the fcala, the width of which is so great, what is the length of the thread in the given plane. Then from this ta bula from F nume ra for do degree min. and there print rule a pound, that it will be afcenden tis V: count for n from Fq. grad. z6. min, do it there pundu pron. pro but count twice from degree min. do it there pound with li gno lic de foreign numbers
Hin horizontal part DC, dabic line afcendentisn, pound inx- quinodial conjunto pundu m hori zontali DX will give a line. . Pundum ve ro Q. in the afternoon part of the sequinodial MN is the joint of the horizontal bar tis DC will give the return of the afcendent fl, &fic you will have, you will be brought back to the xquater pa rallelas for two pounds, in which terfecat meridiana and two tropics and touching each other, that is, the vertices of hyperbolas, and ooppofi tarum, as vi give but of the other pundas, The sun in the sun, you will join the discoveries with of the pawns in the horizontal part of the right found, where instead of boreal clays in- draw the wood aftral, as shown in the figure. Thus the line is drawn through the pound to him in MN refponding on the xquinodial part, by pun while the hyperbola makes it horizontal line DX: not otherwise in the other lines de- you will proceed to strike. Many other reasons meet these lines I will give true, because they are in abundance We returned to the blemata, here the parkers elle we wanted When therefore noon, po the same planar lines S s nem aArtis magm Liber VGnomon. Curio let them not who knows the lines of hafce to write, not to write otherwise will ignore Pundatte lines the rise of the trees They demonstrate the setting sun. Pragmatism III. tsAfcendentmm, and the defendants feno ere lines in the lower vertical plane: A Take it from a productive table degrees BC in half-diameter of the squatter, which as a rule expands tants width, how much said half diameter is a quinodial from Futrinque to the line EG, hve secinodial from the meridian in front near the Ridian, Velpomeridian side transfer the order of the table, have give the affianced pawns, applied to the king la in squinodiali, qusfita Who became, as in on the horizon such a line, in which the arc of the pawns let them die, as you see in the example, conjointly rice you will also have potions to fall into vertical plane See the rest of the ways to the prolific Pragmatist, jption of these lines we referred. The rising sun waves the lines of the rising sun; nonpundats rise of pawns defeen the tooth of the Sun, they demonstrate. Fsigm- Ouranogrphia Gnomonica. Pragmatism IV. Lines of kindling, and defceliding in to decrile the horizontal plane. IO lat first rule with fcaia expanfa, which let it have as much breadth as it is bisector of an equinoctial triangle lo gnomonic for the horizontal plane. In cu You will determine the right side of the table Here is a punda of degrees for each one correpondent with wood, as in Pragmatia II. of this problem, and I would have Table for punts in aquinoBial. Table for puntlis in the tropics O in Y exiftente G in Tang Tang A M, P M A M P M
before it is fated, by noting the punda next to the numbers in the fertile table the records of his bondsmen. If therefore from the cent tro clock You led the hidden reins tro, making a peak, they will pass through two qus- I like the pound of one pin of the line of the reins dental implants For example, register rus line V, I already have a weight of O in equi nightly, it will be Nodialipoft south, through which reda line from the center A duda fecabit tropicunrjo in S. Therefore, by S, Sc by O reda duda will give li V. The same about the rest of the fta- to protect Try this whole business end rule given by leaves touching in parts of the latitude opemium dinis rules, five-femidiameter squaloris c pertimgen p Take the tangents of the pawns afccnding- tes' um, correcting each other by steps, eofque from place C asquinodial into the bottle which part you will transfer, and you will have a punda for equinodial, Sun in squinodialffci- tes in the fruitful table of the contents of the steps on both sides of the trees you will have a pound a pound of wood for se- quinodial Then on the other side adb You will determine the rules of punda degrees
asquinodialis in the fecund table for Tropics qo, carefully noting punda Given then the horizontal plane li, in which the first two tropic -jo S3 together with the equinoctial ST, and the meridian ace, fint delineated, so infcrib lines afcen teeth of wood. Accept the rules of la tus ced, divided into degrees (which fietfi from the center d quadrant d e you have brought the reins) and apply it to the fupra ST, therefore the rules of the pound c in the middle of the ruler, to the whole ST con crane What fado printin squino dialiST punda next to the first numbers the files of the collaterals in both on the south side, they will be these pun will cast the shadow of the gnomon. As it is true you already have punda in the equinoctial, So le in the tropics; take a side of things gulas etc. for the tropics, in degrees fuos divifum (which is made from the center from which drantis ed you led the reins) and that applied fupra asquinodial, as pau- in the equinoctial, the Sun in the or qo conftitu to; through which hourly lines from the center of the clock those dudes will make the tropic in pundis which with the former punds uniui ejufi they will give a conjugation of the wood lines of pawns; noting carefully that The weight of both tables is equal you will confuse the nodal impression. Lines you will have, if you redo it to the asquinodial parallel loop through the vertices of the hyperbolas of the opposite he But the account of the table to be reckoned with for although the elevation of the pole, videfol. The dashed lines show the lines in which The setting sun hinders the rising of the vines; but the lines are not punctuated they offer to the burning sun. C or ollarium L And so they have the lines of the affendants of the pawns at the hours to which they are attached clockwise from the center to the tropics the hours from sunrise to sunset hours at noon, and the middle node, two cir the butts of the apparent, and the hideous I will make the largest of the sharks you, sartis magne Libet V. Gnomon. Curio you And when the hours from sunrise, the largest groups of femper appearing the greatest of those who were hidden in those places, in of the reason, which from the hours of noon, and the middle node let them be done, let them happen; it happens that punda conta- ctus conjoined with the pundis in the equator they give the lines of the hours from sunrise and sunset: so I mean, the lines of the affendant pawns of the trope to touch the body So if from the center of the clock the hourly lines are drawn through the points of gravity two, which in the hours of afcenfion of the pawns, So For example, they are competent; they will produce tropical io in pundis, per which together with the punds in the equinoctial through contacting the first table of findings they will give the lines of the descendants of the pawns the benefits See other ways with others: us so much that we have learned new things they have to be combined with ease, &ex whose principles are most universal they can be led elsewhere. Corollary Inc is clear, fub width i j degree oh delineate the log to the rise and the neck at the same time, coinciding with the lines of the ascendants pawns. . Another method. Clinprasfcnte Pragmatiaforfan to some di- fplicate, that tangents to hyperbolas they do not want to be led so conveniently; that support let's use this practice, which by declining option by anal ina of the mediations of heaven punda in mere diano, of the declensions of mediation li, through the ecliptic punda in the circle of the hour found the girdle, the lines of the trust But the weight of the mediations by tabu you will find them fertile. And indeed at first peranalemma of the preceding figure Praz. lV fuprapofitum, in which the horizon is formed from the b, axis world c d equator e f, vertical g h; IK plain whether horizontal, clockwise. SiitaqueabE you have calculated the weight of the quinodial there have been declines of the mediations of heaven boreales; turn from the truth, be the other side, by the ends of the numbers, and the center of the rede they are led; they will make the line IK in pounds, which from m pound analemmas from place fty- li in the meridian line trans-clockwise They will give the punda pundas of the benefits of mediation. But these things will still be found better the diophus of the Zodiac, as it is done Apply
the gnomonic triangle AB, CD, and so on figure of pragmatism IV equal half-diameter; toris bc the radius of the equator OB, in the prefect fi gura coincides, and will be a c e the meridian line, dbijhxab sexis, au linea hoare fextae, ST equalizer If, therefore, from B the weight of the water the rays of the Zodiac in both directions you see the decline of the mediations of heaven from the first table, verfus C indeed, fi mediation whether the pots were boreal, verfus D; be au- ftralia, they will make lines from O through the ends of the fuppu tations dudse in line nc meridana, five ix. punda, which is from a place of phthyl, or center the clocks will be transferred to the south punda mediations, through which the son-in-law He was about to be led. as for example by z z grad. 3i. min aBverfusC fupputata, line from O through the border the duda made a line of ace the meridian in the pound, which from the center The clock will put a pound on me the radian of the clock, through which the line V was drawn must So that you may have the ecliptic punda in ho ra fexta, count a pound B verfus C of the inclinations of the ecliptic pounds near ta fertile bull After this, be from O ra- diofo Zodiaco pearls of numbers re you give, they will make the LM line of the hour girded in punds, which from the center of the clock m line of the hour before, velpoftmeridi- they will give them (according to the plan) translated punda, which with pundis mediations ad one and the same cousin conj un give back the lines, they will give the lines of the dependents taboo G M G M G M G M G M G M
Xf- Auftr. Auftr. Auftr. Auftr. Bor Bor
Auftr' Auftr zzyz Auftr. Table z. points of the ecliptic In the hour circle [exta. G MG MlG M Bor Bor
Auftr. Ouranpgraphia Gnomonica. Table Decimation of mediation codes. Having found further punfti mediations through You will be able to follow the previous rules in almost no way gotio to describe the lines of afcendents: fi ni you have led to a wonderful touching of the tropics, those for there will be lines of quasfitss. How indeed These tables are used for pole elevations they should be calculated, we have taught fol. A note about For indeed not all the lines which are gno- siZher? they are touched by the shadow of the mountain, they offer it li gna to arise at that time; it must be done duntaxatfexligna, which arise during the day, cujufmodifemperfuntilla, queg alocco Solis a fruitful field of figs their rantur, umbramonftrari; utfi2z. February rij Sun in the beginning X Xiftente, umbralty; If you break the iq line, don't think it is at that time to arise, when he then fears me no, the horizon is gone. If therefore um If the bra falls into line V, you will definitely do it then to rise when that fupra becomes the horizon, between the sun is counted in one place. Everything becomes one wood is strengthened by X, ui that to ttpinclufive cuni zz, the shadow of the February horizon On the day they will be told, the rest I will tell you: whence they avoid this clock to the confluence dam iii may be divided into two, one of which d ykdftella- vttmfixd- high except for ads in the afcendent line onefemperlineas fignorum, qugtunctem- they arise from the pores, which I have brought here to be lubnefted. See the account of these things further drawn up in Gnomonic noftra phy fio-altrologica. Problem I In the horizontal plane of the braces fixed to decrihere particular ortns. A new fan found, and by no one which I will do, traditionally, as a bundle of clothes to write down the hours at any moment you fix Hellas, too where it cannot be seen, the rising through the shadow of the Sun monllretur We, therefore, first let us open They are first grown by the Sun have you finished any ftellss lix? within the tropics when the sun rises, let the hours pass away; and count these in the quadrant of the circle from thence verfus n, li hour was antemeridian a, ab everfuswin afternoon; for the very end numbering reda by center dudta will he do? I say the Sun's shadow falls on Y, or =a=to fall upon it at that time, when some T rizon the horizon emerges: the other punished as] that from the center of the clock you have, count the hour, the distance of the sun parallel to the sun, in which the sun From the sun, while it is rising, in whatever flat the fertile hour is spent. If yes and the hour and hour, when it was noon, go away; more shamefully, Stpofterius was found punished verfus n, in the afternoon, if you join from the ver-; rehe, you will have a line of sunrise fteilaj fus m fupputetur; for I was at the end of the fuppu jquadita, in which at any time of the Sun tation, and you have drawn the center of the circle in the right direction, the ray will fall and show at the same time He will make them fquinoitiale in the chastened, through the thin horizon. This dress nmfimm Gnomonic raphia.
the rise of all the rest of the stars and the oc- hemifphsrii You will determine the cafus in the particular hour logs It should be noted, however, that one line to make for the rise of Hellas any one whole year concentric, you will write another one greater, as you see; of which here in the squales parts, di tur vida; and duftif from the center through the divisions showing off If therefore the same fpacio haioJp be punished with lines, they will give those lines of hours a the lines of other stars, rising, setting at noon, and mid-night, as it appears, and it will be you will inscribe and add an hour to each one, this circle is immovable forever. This is different like a dog, the heart of a lion, Aldebaran, Spikes of the Virgin; the shadow will watch the sunrise of him, whose name he brings forth to the same fyderis at the time See what's funnier in Gnomonica Phy fico-aphtrological we deliver hereafter. Problem XVIIL The whole fjfiema of fiUarum fixed thus in to write on a plane, as if they were fixed sunrise, the shadow will always be visible. Itoniftnm 'tr. in all the planes of this kind The projection of the stars can be done; because that but no plane more convenient, anatura- li hujtifmodi hemifphaeriorum aftriferorum even though more suitable for the price ttttih. li, in him she is more alive than others. They will be delineated in a troqueigiturplano fquinoitiaii The hcmifphsria of the fixed lltellas are of every kind you can see what is done by the figures of the cloth. And the drawing will be thus instilled. Net hour zontal Azymuthico-Almucantaric, that the pre-exercise IV. with We have taught it to be broken, in the sequinoftial plane, and so on It is convenient to refer to the center of the network the light of the world, nea m m meridian, ftve diameter Squino- ftials, the rest of the lines from the center to the circle conference of the two southern live schedules; concentric circles to the fourth parallel, the circles of declination of the cloth; and I would have the net prepared. In this Network, therefore, next to the nis, length, or declensions of the ftella published by Cia vio, Grinberger, and elsewhere, the two hemifphsria of the ftellae will be drawn xarum in the northern hemisphere li, in the inferior for the aftral. Or be it instead of deli Hemifhsriorum ftellae fixed let them be taken as gnomonic delineations any two hemifphsria ftellifera; have they will have the same fate as them. Yes they will be adjusted to the level of equity li. At first it was carried in a close relationship a circle at an interval of half a diameter of one ex rem j juxta minor concentric, from either side which side you will excavate in such a way that the orbs are hemifphs of the crimes conveniently assigned to him, to be arbitrarily the user rotates around within the cavity of the pof- feint as Retia, findaranes with the lips of the underworld; the center of the circle is normally created inde- finite size) rich orbs in op- with rich faces, as if around an axis in a plane they want water for a drink: have-- bilque horologique fteilis showing, as will do Of this clock. C Located on the plane j next to the height of the squat ris requifita, &jneridiana linea ho- equinoctial chronology: If you wish to make the whole cceli fitum, oblerVa umbram phtyli horas itl limbo rhonftrantem, cadatquev g. shadow in the third hour of the afternoon: ad promote the knowledge of the entire clergy the degree of the Sun, which the Sun sets on the same day pat, fub shadow ftylL&you will have hemifphs-
riumfitutaum to the growth of the entire boreal he- to be known as Miphphsrii: for it tells them in which the hourly lines are contained, him in they occupy the same place as the hourly circles in the sky; so you will soon see what ftells in in the middle of the sky which are found in other parts of heaven. really at the time of the fig trees, hemisphere, into which the Sun has not yet entered you want to do; apply hemifphsriumau ftral fufra the same time line, fu for which the shadow falls in the farthest: ha you will drink qusfitum. Verumuthscornnia me lius dignofeerepoffis, here three figures pofui- a mouse; of which the first monftrataftrographi- cam drawing a fruitful rise rum throughout the world; the third applied one of the world's four world axes collided. Se- Here is the figure of the wretch. Apply to Rome whether the south of the south a tooth And you will have the pots that are offensive to the rest corresponding places gnomonic geography Problem They call the five meridians, from the two poles of the world Circles of afcenfion reb? arum, fiye circles to describe the meridians in a horizontal plane Affcenfional teams, at this point call the same mouse as the hourly circles itos, and squatter in parts, fecan- tes: they have this office, as a shadow in falling three times would show how many degrees the Sun is in finished with the equator; but I throw it away the same prodigy of these circles, who T t a rare The great book of art V. Gnomon, (uriof. rare from the south, and the middle node If so rule noftram fciatherica fcala fua ex- panfa appliqués fufra waterer of the clock horizontal, the width of which becomes vurfrdU tus racus aquarius of the gnomonic triangle, rum punda in it according to the rule of degrees of the vertical that you will print; they will give lines by punda defcnbere {jprefla in quinodial from the center of the clock gii dudte lines, five afcenfional circles qusefitos For the vertical you will have a circle butts, fi from the center of the vertical clock through punda degrees in tequinodial imprefia lead the reins, what are the lines read But his rule must be of great breadth nis, as much as the semidiameters of the quinodial in the gnomonic clock for the clock vertical collision You will have Eofdeni in polar, fi in the applied rule, which latitude In the height of Itylus, the shark should have an inpolarity the polar squinodial level of the punda plane um, according to the fcalam you are imprcfleris; hcc for punda, to the south parallels du- ds will give the lines that fit. The same method more so it will boil in the same meridian plane infcribendis no circle in divided parts frylo in-? roJE- determinate quantity smoked, in cen- tro normally eredojpetitifatisfaciet. The problem. Metograpbiam, (eu longitudes of places in define a horizontal clock; as given every hour, every hour in the whole world world jit, you want to know Register of Longitudes of States -not different from the previous one, nifipofitio- not even at the first noon of the Inlulars of the Canary Islands, as you will find Deccrib as before, with the help of regulslinesafcenfio nals, five meridians: deindenumeraame- the western side of the clock the difference between the prime meridian and the Romans, fruitful Ptolemy degrees, fe whereas the more recent Fervation of degrees is Second Ptolemy therefore counts the offering in a rule from O prime meridian verfus meri diana line, a fortnight and a fortnight degrees, by which the names of the places length expressed in degrees, diftan- add this, and the mecography will be finished. A true figure will explain the matter better than I can even explain in many words. Vfus with this Mecographie I did more quickly it is noon, and the quota hour is in every city avoid writing to someone in the meridian the shadow of the mountain will fall in the meridian, to whom is the city of Babel, surely cats the same elf in the south; fic about the rest. In the vertical plane Mecographia the same way it will be completed at five noon and five afternoons you first inscribe the circles, and the same nomi- mm A ver.
You would have been able to find places with the same steps; tkdi by fi- by offering this, utfemper the first! the old man turns to the west side of the plain, in as the sun casts a shadow on me he casts out the day; then the rest were mere vertus shall be reckoned as a dian. SKomtde In the polar plane of the long meridian circle the plane of the ttidins will be parallel lines, which cof- ap the numbers with the same names you can put it both vertically and horizontally. polar at noon iconic Wui V. Pragmatism Mecography of places in the cequino plane Glial defcrihere, in what quota hour is done in the whole world wide, cognofcipojjit Just like no other plane nomic2e are more easily inscribed, than squinofiali, thus also no length the more suitable for these places, the more he lived in it for a long time may come So the two hours on the road, me- let us inscribe the latitudes and longitudes: first geographical; the other, by the desire of the name whether The former method thus fe ha bet: Delineate two hemifphsria with in all places the meridians and parallels as well as geography, twenty-five; of whom borealefuerius, but auftral lower fty- I normally lift it, so you can attach it freely as if it wants to be moved around an axis, as it were the mode of fupra a little before with the hemispheres We have made a set of laces. If, therefore, the Sun you could have taken a horolabiumpriusfkuatum, me of the principal place, adquemfci- although the lengths of the as here Romanus cft. rice; They will show the lines of the hours, just five dians in a geographical outline in limbo horary hours, in the cities of the same time contented with the gods, In this prefect The first figure we encounter is the outline of the icon the geographical position, in one only, vi He delights in the northern hemisphere, together with the hour rum inscribed in a circle on the margin, which &equi refers to the nocturnal The second figure refers to the mo while applying the said hemifphsria fupra Ouranographia Gnomonica- It is a different method, which is to be fertilized We explain the pragmatism, Pragmatism. II. Another practice is to accomplish the same thing If, indeed, by the abundance of names, f"0 Ge' he is satisfied, let him take this roft a geographical advantage, such as here, give a figure from the past; that which is duplicated for inferiori, &fuperioriplano, in this circle with rare excifion inferred, so that the phthylo is normal he fastens to the heir, so that around him like an axis li I want to drink. And so the bright Sun. and by the clock, apply the meridian Roman fub shadow border hour every hour it happens in all the places where horsrefpondent, will show Problem XX Space hrilJpoftM, five hot zone in connect the given plane with the gnomonic projection to outline It is necessary to see the trinity of this projection, to whom lo- co fub the torrid zone of the Sun becomes vertical, to which in every place the south But at first on a horizontal plane First, according to ch. z. horographise Varis will outline the aphtrological clock, according to the practices handed down in the same place, or made of clay near the lines of the afcenfional circles The problem is going forward, along with the molds the arcs of the Sun's declinations near Pro the problem of this who will they will be, and the line will boil; hours: for me the circles of the sun, and the arc of declination for circles of latitude. If so by the map accurate between the tropics with the help of longitude whether and the latitudes of the cities on the map graphics axis with the help of a quadrant, to show the hours of the contents of the gnomon apt to flinch. And far beyond the hemi-co of the solar limit fpacio geographically The sun in Borea, high up, will show the phos rum in Auftro The third figure if you rush, you will have something. In the polar with the lines horariccfintparelie-, Tt mn] diano declt- paralyzed will be kept he said you parallel but the circles of latitude will be ar because of the declinations of the Sun. The same must be said from the meridian plane, which are one and the same the map will be applied to the whole world. In inclined and declining planes the laws of procedure handed down in the previous ones they will boil Therefore, the space is declared I healed us, which was to be done. The problem Problem
Parallel arcs of daily m each to draw a given plane. Pragmatism I i on each piece of paper two the radiant cones of daily rainbows, according to the rules pre-exercise ment II. of this delivered, and linen in B common ver to be joined together x Apply trian inside each cone gnomonic throat ABC for horizontal, vertical, as the figure is pleasing. Ouranograpbia Gnonomca.
x A semicircle is inscribed from the mass S GFI interval SC in equal parts alive whose fine two pounds from F and how you will connect the remote return, which line SF in they will make points. which from S rather than C so on the line SCaffignat the points of the hours of the sun from the south, and the middle node; as a figure adfcri- He clearly teaches the numbers of the hours; have and two intruments for daily bows in the horizontal and vertical clock to be prepared For the polars, however, 8t to work in the south. On the clock pole ri, the quantity of which Ityl becomes DB, by a pound af. Imbued in a line bound only by the equinox with a diftant dial, as big as the gnomon's DB, length elt. From this weight they should be transferred there they licked the diftantirc hours from noon this is, making x. steps from B the vertex of the radiating cone to the line BH. Yes for it is transposed by the punda, to the line BH you will take normal, five that same elt, pa- Ufos Therefore, with the help of this organ, I gave it faster many parallel arcs in this plane at the horizontal end any confusion linearutn in write down the horizontal plane of the clock. From where A B are brought two wires, of which that which is led from B is in limbo SHT lines of bows, newspapers, the other ex A in the line SC of the horary lines will report Let him, therefore, be the first on a plane the arc of the day is to be determined at hours (for the arc of hours. elt ipfe m quino- these omissions are made to the line AB A; the rays of the daily arcs. What then? from the xquinodial lmea polar or meridian horolabi, turned into corresponding hours they will give a wide punda, through which the hyperbola ar whose journals must be taken to go it will be clear to them. Organs. the dial on the clock. jFilum B apply pound in the limb SH, and there that firm while in line SC. Where are the two threads? they will be angry; there will be a heavy bow with the help of the diurnals nihoraruiri that from A into the line a diana blown from the center of the clock, there he will give a pound, through which the bow. day hours will pass. Then with a polished thread Ain pound hor line; SC, and both you will note the intersection of the wires: interval the light an urn of hours how Artit is a great book for lum among lioc was punished for murder nis, A in line horre ii. from the center Clockwise, it will give a fine arc fever in the late hours of the day. Likewise, apply the long term of A fraud punished i. io. hor? in the line SC, the space between A, common interfelting point of the threads from the center of the clock at the hour i. &io. across He will give a broad punishment. Not a pun cta arc of the day hours in the end these hours, the swiftness of lost threads, (of which one femper rests fupra lim bum SH, the other was punished for hours the vehicle in SC) you will drive the intersection. Once again the daily bow is to be drawn rarum promoted thread from B fupra nu Mere in the limbo SH you will establish there; and the other wire A is fastened by means of a pin schedules on the SC line will be promoted when on the other wire B fspace, which from the center of the clock j translated into the corresponding hourly lines they will prepare the points through which the bow is drawn a nut of hours will pass, whose greatest di- hours from sunrise, occafu defcribendis ufus b is Sivero filumBpofueris fupra grad. in the limbo HS established; the other felt A defer liatur- through penalized hours in SC will give motion fpa- cia between A, and punished by the wire of murder rum, which were transferred from the center of the clock in li correct hours lla, through which the daily arc will pass ho of the rare, who etfinon falls within, fed outside in the tropics, it is, however, the largest of its species at unequal hours, as in de- by the capture of the hujufinod hours
It is so, it will be said in part in the fertile ones. Where is the note that whenever two threads let them kill with fear, then the bow of interfelting hyperbole would be punished; where two threads have been parallel somewhere, then he will go to the parable, which is then on the clock it happens when the thread B is placed on the tip of T a point in the limb of the SHT, and another thread A in the line of SC filafintparallela, defcriheturparabolajux- these practices and metliodos in the Progymnafmata traditions: the accounts of all of which are in Pro- see theories. When, indeed, the filanon fe rint, fciaseliipfes fereribendas efie. yides therefore LeCtor mode no less delightful, as with the first ingenuity to whose standard the arch of wood, &men- and days, with no less ease, how do you bring down the prndilted bow of the day: fi It is clear that wire B is the wrong one given the deflection you would have been able to take a step in the limbo of SHT, re liquid wire off the hourly points in the SC you move; for they will give fspaces between the pun thus of interfeCtion, A in the clock ex centered on the hour lines tranflata, the bow of figni, menfis, and the gods of the Qmefiti. V. Gnomon. Curto fe Pragmatism. II. ro in the Vertical Plane. Cl therefore the daily arc in the vertical horo- If you trust to delineate the day, you will suffer two things bus wires in A, B of the gnomonic triangle for of the vertical clockwork: thus utB fem by the degree of the arc given in the limb of the SHT fupra, the other should be moved at four hourly intervals, they will give the spaces between the points of intersection belt, 8cA in clockwise lines from the center ho ronlogi tranflate the arch of the newspapers. The practice differs in nothing from the former, but only in nothing in the application of the gnomonic triangle, as you see Pragmatism. II f. parallel arcs in the polar plane ri, to bear the only son of the du. ciu in the south. QpRainflates in the beam BH di- horary clocks in parts It was divided into parts, and at the north point the evils brought between fe parallels, as we taught a little earlier in Pragmatia I. , so order the execution If the wire is fixed in B a fupra bow, for example a newspaper ho you will be able to direct them, make them parallel, quickly hourly lines in fspace, which: intercepted, in the hourly lines corresponding to the the quarter of the clock is blown, they will give points, through which will pass the diurnal arc of hours. In this way, fpacium B in the radio cone transfer from the place of the gnomon on the clock polar on both sides to the south. Also, fspace between the hour line: B in radius B intercepted, and from being punished, everywhere A line of bone makes a quarter of a clock. in the line of the garden punished, by which the well-made bow will be cut. I don't care about bringing other bows for it you give up Whereas the meridian plains are the same have a projection of knowledge and hours in them, too, in the same way, the daily arc bring down Therefore I will say nothing more about them while it is blowing. Pragmatism IV. In the calendar of the equinoctial days bring parallel parallel to the equator in an even plane -'noftiali fint all circles, so no foot do not outline the daily business framework in it. It will be determined in the cone radiofo iineaBO Ae such as the BD Ityl of the clock, and to O normal draw OR, parallel to BH. If the wire in B it is assumed that the fupra number of ar at p. m. , he will restore it online OR, fspace, at whose distance from the center Onranographia Gnoruonid.
tro clock in the quinodial circle The key will give an arc of hours. Seriously the strings are advanced by the arc of the hour, it will be restored in the line of ORfpacium, to which from the center, another circle will give the dude the daily arc of hours filofupra refecabitidinlinea OR inter a rampart, to which from the center a circle runs will give hours of arc. So hours you will have a bow, if you want a string with a red light rum to the intercept in the line of ORfpac You will draw a circle from the center of the clock. So also the last x4. hours arc you will have, fi pofito filofupra intercepto in draw a line ORfpacio from the center of the circle smile You see, then, with what ease the fimul I was delighted to learn the bow in every plane were written down.
In declining and inclined planes The same rules apply as in de- by the breaking of the parallels of the Sun. Why nothing? I will tell you about it Problem Gnomically bring the files of the whole world; is nothing else than an equal zone -'tor parallel to the two circles of the equator bounded by parallels, encircling the whole earth; the breadth of which is as great as from the terminus ipius southerly to the north, the greatest day grows runs through the thigh. But when it is done, distinguish one parallel from another find a quarter of the garden, the climate is changing to connect a parallel bus, terminating in two bus, and one walking through the middle of the climate; not that he made that bifurcation, for they are The climate of Borea and beyond anguftiorajfed for equality of difference time True, in order to complete many things in a few dar, see the table of fertile climates; from which, velutifynopfi certain, didainno- they will In the clock, therefore, gnomonic to fan the climates, you will bring the parallels of the climate this universal artifice is riovo, 8ta ne I still deliver what I will do. Deccrib baturfeorfimin paper from A, arc BDC, which you divide on both sides into steps; refresh rent CD width n. climate in Auftrunl: DB vero latitude clima then to Borea: rice will do Then transfer the same pounds hourly in the line CI, to use in the cited little an You are pragmatic. I like this the wire A is the width of the first climate Meroen, in limbo BD, and the other thread from b fupra puda horia fpacia between pun give the intersection of the threads, translated in li hourly from the center of the clock horizon such a correction, they will give punda, per that bow dude will give the first parallel. Again I advance the wire A to the width of the bottom in the fertile climate of Syene, that is to say, I was for its breadth in the circle BD, &filo ex b fupra punda horaria CI extenfo, in for tervalla between b, 8c punda interfedio- whether the wires from the center A are in a clockwise line as the corresponding hours translated, da- buntpunda, through which the bow of the cli will pass mati fcundi: fic j according to the given climate la- vv titu- Artis Libet' V. Gnomon, fariojiz. Climate then in piety vertical polar, me ridiano, quinoptial registration You will proceed with the prophecies on the board, with the wires, until all climate arc in- fcripferis: the greater part falls outside the tro peaks, noting the innermost hyperbola, ellipse read for if the threads were parallel, instead of hyperbola, parabola, fi rit eiliphis, fic de creteres. But what We could have climates outside the tropics, so fa It was done with the help of many of their bows around different hours conftruct tones to be expedient, as it may be said in part, it will be said in part in the fertile ones. In the vertical, rich climates of the soil by the change of the gnomonic triangle, as in pre it is a favor to the giver. In polar climates bes, the hourly figure of Pragmatism pre- passing through the radius of the equator parallel pundtaterminanti adlCduxe rice; for the wire from A is the fourth degree of climate in the limbo BD will be applied in parallel a matter of space, which was transposed in the lines of the clock they will give pundta bows climate. The same the system of conveyance will boil at noon clock In the equatorial plane RetePrg- exercise IV. will give a broken made Note, in this place, such a small droverness opinions about climate change; as It is scarcely possible from the Geographers who con- let him vent We fciatheri- cam we have ordered in this place, the fertile Ta a bull brought down from Juncftine. If anyone but the Ptolemaic use of maht, fa whatever may be allowed. Check out his board here we anoint TabulaClimatum feeundum Ptolemcsum.
Middle climate ta. Through Me ro en By Sye- even By Ale xandriam By Ro while PerRo- mom PerPon then By means of Boryft. By Ta nain G M G M G M G M G M G M G M G M
Note the universal progressing figure: he will punish by common intercession, per cry out If you want to use it instead of degrees. [which the wire from b, with the wire from A, by climate
width a transverse parallel line joining the two degrees, for climatic space degree in the side fire, and the mullet made by the clock. Unsuccessful about other fta- perpendicularly defending the lines, it must be protected. Table AMPHICII HETEROSCII PEMSCIi Climate wis i i a uurnnograpbti Gnomcnica Table of fertile climates of the Junlins and Neoterics. Order of Greatest Height parallel days poles
Places through which parallels pass. Through Africa. . j' Per Xaprabanem. Through the Gulf of Avalictim. By Meroen Infula. By Barnagal Through Aden. By Syene fub Through Mecha. By the Alexandrians. Through Pbeflina. Through Rhodes. Through Smyrna. By the Hellepont. Through Marfilia. Through Venice. Through Switzerland. . By Oftia Boryftenis. Through the Marotid swamp. Through the Colony of Agrippina. By the Baltic Sea. By Oftia Tanais. By Bulbcus of England. Through York, Ariglim. Through Camaldunum Anglite. Through Ireland. Through Edenburg Sbotig. Through the Hebridean Infula. Through the last of Ireland? Through Oreadas. Through Scythia. Through Finland. Via Berga Norwegia? o Through Ifland. By Nordhuys caftrum. Across the Weygats Strait. Through Novaya Zemlya. Through Novaya Zemlya. Through Greenland. By the land of Suppolaf eift. Problem Each of the solar declination parallels is de- to write in a horizontal borolon.
The great book of art V. Gnomon, (uriof. For the Polar Plane. ]p Lined with a clock in the polar plane transfer to the line AD the radius of the water ris of the preceding organ from A, producing hour- The same line AD, the arc drawn BC, of the oriaris diftantes from the south in parts which, starting from D, divide the end of the whole on both sides, and draw the para; . the degrees and the boundaries of the punda were lelre; and he will give the thread A, and he will decline the anchors things If, therefore, the fmgulos of this triangle are limBnRnr. nnniirarnm in parallel to the declination of the Sun in this plane If you trust to write horizontally, take the trian gnomonic throat for horizontal, id- which you apply in such a way as to be the half-diameter of the equator AE corresponds exactly to the radius of the water AD. If, therefore, the hourly punda, how We ordered it to be done in the future, in CE be transferred, it will be an organ of declination Solarium, five dcfcribendorum parallel rum, prepared Ortus Sa Having then drawn the aftronomic clock in any horizontal plane, in it this art you describe the declinations of the Sun. Fixed wires in the pundisBA of the organ, one of them is the fupra the first degree of the decline of the flower, fi ho if the clock is great, you will strengthen it; on the other fupra fingula hourary punda liiie CE appli cat noting carefully where the wire B is the wire A will do. For if the spaces between of Dion, A mediating in hourly lines corresponding from the center of the clock of the flower, it will pass through the dida punda paralle the first play of the solar declination. Also ap folded wire A fupra fertile step limbi BD, on the other hand the points of the hour ria applied, the fspaces between B are transferred thread A fed into the clock lines fpondentes, and he would have a fruitful pa ralleli Solari I did not make it proceed with the registration of parallels, have bifquequetefitum tionisgradusin limboBDC applied in parallel lines of hourly segments, qutein the lines of the clock were blown monflrabunt punda tranfitos of the molds the parallels of the Sun's declination. The same to be said of the meridian plains. At the top Inscribe the two parallel sides of the triangle gnomonic inversion, as in the preceding it has also been handed down. Confederium I The lines of the rising time, ey of the sun, in to determine the clock T TNany parallel declinations Solarium in the feparate fpacio rim ho- CM add to the clock the time of rising and falling Sun (which will give the midday arc) mon- and the shadow of the gnomon shone parallel to them los falling, time rising, and occafus qu- made IT collection. To determine the peak time within the lines clock IT Ide in the table of crepusculums, as much as Cri he becomes a seed, and to this he
be the numbers of the duration of the crepusculars by the whole year, and the shadow will show made Collection The eastern breadth, and the western extent to terminate Check out the size chart rum, as much as any declination parallel to the north tequinodial pound decline, and to this decline the number If it is written, it will give the eastern extent of the day, I say, the shadow of the gnomon rushes in is detected Confederate IV. Jfcenfiones reclas, obliques} with diff ferentii afcenfionabilihus in the clock to determine IF from the tables of fuprapofitslinguli teeth afcenfion redes, oblique, ad-0 IV"S' fcripferis, you will have qufefit. But here The problems are more clearly visible in the figures than can be said deserve it. Look at the shape of all these in Gnomonica Phyfico-aftrologica. And Ourancgraphia Gnononicd. And these are the things which, of the first Mobile Iiflctelus, you use, the fools of Pelion Ofia do&rina in any given fciatheric plane We wanted to say a brief recapitulation. Do you have Ledtor here Aftrobiography no- No need; Idprcefias a more convenient way. The shadow shows the ways in which the side of the world is admcenia JEthereal poivfis to penetrate this house- vam, which wherever others in the vulgar aftro-' with the lips, which are here in lciatheric outline in Ajlronomi, this balance proves to the right. find at any given plane; so that, therefore, when they are in a different place, they may be carried away by queismotihus don't be surprised, if this book of Pentateuch is closed on the Earth, it digests and moves this shadow. I will give Ergofi's shadow is nothing; The biggest, great, people that teach, umlra, {NOTHING. . ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI ESOC. ]ESU PRESBYTERY ART M A G N jE LIGHT AND SHADOW Book Six PROTEUS SCIATHERICUS SIVE ASTROLABO-GRAPHY figvrata With which no figure five flat, five leafed, is taught to be given poffe, qUx Aftrolabi, or a clock capable of not pofefle. P R F A T I O Lellor is not curious about this so much as any foliated bodies, fed every genensfimulacra, {fiflatuas ad a kind of surprising apotheosis cohonified, in the calum transfigured and transformed by the Sun, Lance, and Star and the gifts go from Jlrenueperagere, as of catios It is not undeservedly that the law can be said to be ineffable: the ancients We read that the earth and the animals in the sky on the contrary, you will warm the souls with fearful bodies we connected; to those who are all strong, whom I have given to them We read afieclts difiribuijfe, together with all by difpening the rights of heat so neatly, that dehifce not incongruously taught: Already, in the shadow of Thursday, the work is being played around the world. PART ONE CLOCKWORKS CATHOLICS. CHAPTER f. Tdefimtio horolabiofurn of the Catholics, Or Olabi A Catholica poHit infixu- to know them: and they are of twofold genesis. We call them Sciatheric Irumufus fub at any latitude faith is able, or whose favor in any of the localities, someone has been crushed for an hour all meridian, polar, and equinoctial which in the immovable walls of the south to be made in polar and squino&ial planes Auj polish poflimt True, with this, his daughters, I do not know to have a certain and determined plan, not which may be changed by the particulars of the year they are randa Portable is used at this point it is necessary to act properly, as to trust them; at which and many other writers on gnomonics those leaves which are novafrnt &eno- If they come out with money, let us produce. Let it be, then Problem L Horolabium catholicum, idemjue fimplex, Iconi multiplex', id ejl, in one eadenifuperjicie, mus, r t h oro lips horizontal univerfale, of which all over the world there was a flood of clays. It was written according to the laws handed down in "Parafceuafticis, from a certain material hard, like a cornea? Quarterly rule ex- underwear panfa, as figure i. Iconymmi teaches, ABKH You were in numbers, as you see: and let him have This is the rule of fruitful length adj anointed fpaciumKHCD, whose sideK Ccequale becomes the rule of breadth: KH, or AB; but the fertile breadth of the adjoined ha beat fpaciumEAFC to have fiylumfive a movable axis showing the hours of the fob you want to fit the width. But the hours on which plane
You will inscribe the piety with this garment, as figure z. of this Iconym. Let ABC be the first round circle D, of its size, as a rule of pnudidani to exceed; in which are drawn the two lines AB, CD and AB will be the meridian, and CD will be the equinox ftial After this, apply the pun rule do fuo K fupra pundum V, side HB li nes, VD is congruent to the plane. Then to imagine the fifteen degrees of punda in the equinox some CDs are printed: which punda then in The other side of the VC transfer will give a pun give the hours in the equinoctial, by which as you see, you have given the numbers: and it will be clock to catholic, fiveuniverfa- lem ufu prepared. But the rule ex- panfam, five movable axis, thus prepared you bring the clock. Let the line AB be drawn diana, crena, fiverimaquaedum thins, in whereupon Vregula expanded the axis of the mob referring to them, so that the weight of the fuo is inferred I will eat a thorn, or any other one inscribed in V, as if about an axis for choice rotari poffic But he must by the rules of pun- while R as the center, so pierced by needles, as did not loosen the rule in the crena, burn the fed; and find, five with refiftentia will be washed, For the fecal matter, give the degree of elevation of the pole then, firmly, he does not want to be cheated: and he would have universally prepared clock. See figure Ufns Horolabi Catholici. Horizontal universal clock. "The edge of his nose will be in a horizontal plane such The world was made according to the clock having spread the four parts of the world, king and from one side to another within the crest of VX mes, until the plane of the world is in the limb of the rule DH6 will drop the degree of elevation of the pole given, and he will bring back a prominent plane the portion of the axis of the world, and the angle of elevation nis pole fupra will refer to the horizon of its ex tremble with the meridian line. So the sun shining, axismunui, fiveextremareguls shadow it will take place within a few hours. Reason pa tet clearly: indeed, the rule of the world Of the Horolabis 'Toriutili'. ts will refer; for elevation, Stdepreffione axis, utinfigura3-patet, femperformabi- there is any triangle of any width suitable, as here the triangle VH6, or CD6 is suitable for the elevation of the Roman pole is, in which the semidiameter of the equator is VH it's the same thing. H5 is the axis of the world partio, Y6 meridiana, gnomon reduS HI is the whole triangle VH6; after raise the horizon of the game tus, hour: also in azquinbdiafi juxta the return of the circle of the equator they are then all the clocks show the hours resting on a horizontal plane they are Siruatum, therefore, was shown to the bit hours When the axis is deprewed, or ele triangles of shallow clay latitudes gnomonic form, also half-diameter tequinodial VH femper becomes the same, to equi- I lowered the nodial on the plane of the doubt, necefla rio is to a given latitude It will take hours. Therefore, the horizons of the clock We have completed the universal, which was. facien while Horolabi universal vertical, OI will show you the hours vertically You can download the mobile gem for that reason, as when the ridges of the horizontal plane are no longer high fill the horizon with the poles his chin should be brought back to you. Therefore, in You will raise the five orb so that XP let the line turn back and forth; this but he was so fated, that it might be said a little too much, because the gnomonic triangle, which will be the axis mat, the projection of the hours at the equinoxes he will demonstrate vertically Horolabium univerfale aquinofialei noon QI near the point of the equinoctial plane you would like to be rasmonftrar, next to the world that is fit a little poft to open the practice, demonstrate bitCD only existing on the plane of the axis, what is the width of the fcabe, the shadow was a few hours away the benefits In the same way this was eaten with the same fat j next to the polar plane, and the fig mountain of the south the same ftrabithoras. Try all of these things ipfa will teach beings better than many We try to explain them in words. Here to I give who berie the account of this clock after having woven it, he gave me a new reason the ease with which any deviations are made, will find it open. A new and heretofore unknown clock
by which Druids, at the end of any previous meridian information, system of fitment vation, depreflionefua, elevation O It axis of the world AB, meridians AD, cequi- poii fufra the horizon of any region give-1 no dial semidiameter CV in any one Ve monfird tia rei]ro- Artis magm Book VI, Protheus Sciathericus Lars I. at the top of the cone is always water. Since but the axis becomes sharp, they refer to circles parallel to the axis of the cone parallel end, and all li sharks intercepted by the beak, dcfeCtion. All this you will easily take, if you imagine tion of the Zodiac radiofiFCG in figure cir to rotate around the axis AB: for I circled around this axis the position C describes the equinoctial pumft; but the rest of the radius qo are always the same pundtaFGinaxe ftringent Improbable au The theme is, as this point is the axis, the shadow of the world if it touches the butt, it will be cut off with an ax in its proper position he sneezes Therefore, whatever it is, it will be fit of the clock, as its shadow is a parallel point leli dati lbringat, then the axis necephalario re- He will set the axis of the world, and the orb of the bow ri. Therefore, the clock is finished he will tell how many hours it is. That it was to be demonstrated. at the extremity of which Point C will be applied to the zodiac fu- recorded in the Progymnafmata, so that ra dius squinophtial, hemidiameter CD con crane, and the rest of the rays touch the axis, note and then carefully parallels the Sun, feu of rays ii. of the pawns with the axef&ions punCta, added to each faith dear with the sides of the pegs, whence the axis of some craft He must have a destiny. Then it becomes circular culsusfolidus, as shown in figure the diameter CB is made by the distance of the radius CY equinoftialisin the Radiant Zodiac; here in the world the axis MN is inferred in such a way that the same fem- by imyavas at point B, which point ae the quinnoctial reports, it infuses: into this axis transfer the intervals of the rays of the Zodiac diofi about YB, F Y from B to the axis B M, B H utrinque: defcriptifque around the points in circular axis MN translated by circles, ritinstrumentum preparatum ahorolabi um in every place, at the end of every way I earn as the information is to be verified, it is done. away therefore you infer the circle with the portion of the axis xi mobile rule at point D, as figure teaches When this is done, let the hour be known you would, on a horizontal clock, xem CHb fupra give the breadth of the region as well. Then the whole globe together with the axis, And I have stuck to the same circle here and there for so long you will move until the end of the shadow of the circle the parallel, which the Sun will set in the distance, in he will cut the marked ax, and he will have a bell gium is much more certain than that of a magnet I can't do it, I'm tired of showing off for hours. In the same way, the tall man is fit vertically, meridian, polar, squinoftial Ra this is clearly evident: for when the circle cir bring back the equinox, shadow ve ro in the squinodtial plane perpetually circles He was describing those who are parallel to the Sun, as in pro it has been demonstrated by retreating; it is done bram the whole day, the sun is in some kind of mood rante, effiesquale, when nothing else happens, than the half-diameter of the parallel, which The sun is going down. Therefore, as a portion of the axis in perpetual circles on the equatorial plane he casts out, thus turning the circle, five an orb of a straight axis impofited on the same through I spent the whole day in the shadow of my head will throw Again the sun shone around the tree plane equinoctial straight cone He will write down the matter in days, whose mustache is a circle, and all the lines from the top of the cone to the circumference sharks rent a mustache; so round about axireCtaimpofitum the shadow of the Sun's cone He writes in a friendly way, atinverfa reason; indeed, you have a mustache of the highest cone, which the Sun defrics bit is the circular circuit; vertex a parallel axis marked on the axis, on which the shadow on that day it falls perpetually, as the lines from the bafe Problem Horolabium concave cjhndraceum unmerfale Fabricus T TOc is also an impressive type of clockwork He has an owl, and also at the ipfa of the hours he will be able to extend the fe of minutes, if properly done, the clothes should be finished. So we first I give the jufdemfabrica, then also the ufu
let's eat But it is double; First it happens when immovable phthylo; later with mobile. and the same is full of reason. Here Explain one thing, explain both it is Therefore let the body be given a concave cy- lindraceum ABCD, as figure teaches; with the right cavity becomes semicircular FEG. Yes, at this hour you will draw a log in it. JuxtaProgymnaf- mafol on the projection of fuperficies delivered to the plane, let the whole of that cy-inramcnti be thrown lindraceafuperficiesin plane; which becomes AB GD, as figure has: divide this bifurcation let through EF, GH, and EF will be equilateral, GH line garden fence. Then I wanted a circus not in the punfts E, in the interval EA, or BF, ducanturhemicirculi, each of which divide it into two quadrants by the line EF there Therefore the quadrant FIB, FID, Divide EAO, EOC, and each first intrespartes, fiintegrafigna; again in three other paites, fi decades of degrees, Sc for I will divide the decade in fine, you would trust in the division of the Pentateuch; Sc fin- gula punCta divtfions equally from the equinox Ctialibus pundhs O, removed, reCtis con joins, and would have the parallels of the Sun defcri- ptos, with which clays the characters of the clay you will add, you will see what has been done. An hour You can thus define the lines of aftronomic rum. divided equinoctially, or one of the equi- I will first bifurcate through the line GH, then ibeHprolabiis fortatihbm. qzK GH, then SF, ES, line again in fex equal parts (according to the method inProgy- mnafmate IILtraditum) as they refer to the hours whole; each of these again in divide the hours into halves and quarters, as you see, he bought an hour and charged: an hour but n. AC and BD are related. This one paper thus drawn on wood in femicy- You bring the lindrum in such a way that it is agglutinated let it completely fill the whole interior space; or be engraved on a brass plate, cgesea then into the female cylinder. with ngt the cavity of this limb of the parallelogram of the term nor the twofold division, in whose punishment as in figure a semicircular rod, the quadrants of which are divide the sharks into parts, as you see, that from the center of X lines degrees in limbo they are fixed in a square. Of course the language of the transversal is of such length, what is the width, five equidistant ftials from the tropics: the apex of the Ityl occurs in the lower plane of the parallelogram, and the apex in an equal plane ctiali: and he would have to prepare an intrument then ZJJits concave cylindrical uni- verfalis A Take the infusion of hydrofcopium in perpendicular, quoin pun- ftoX should be attached to the center of the semicircle The level of your breadth, free to fall you will permit: and indeed be done before noon, in in the south quadrant; I'm sorry day, afternoon Then a straight line femper, remaining motionless, was given a hand step by step, turn to and fro chin, until the shadow of the tip of the phthyli prgcise fall on the parallel, which on the same day the Sun completes for she will show the hour when You've been running for minutes. If, however, the hour with it is given to the former parties, monft rabit hour paral the sun's rays together with its declination, or you and the sunset of the Sun, with the twilight, in quantity of the mind, or from the ipfo innotefcit. At the same time, I wrote about other things the system is much shorter than the mobile profile. TYlvidatur circle, five orbis ACB, to use the figure shows, in iz. hours with there were minutes, as was done in the former clock it is by parallel lines; so, however, that dem pta all the width of the circle, leaves na water as you see, let it remain. At this rate, it becomes fty- mobilisinformamlaminse the end of which will be hours away from the peak suitable for showing off. In this plate be the parallels of the Sun, by the same reason in which there is a fad in passing; ACB is thin, it has been an aquatic hemicycle before ri, you will transfer its entire width with the to all parallels a fe each other diftan-M hproh- tiisin the plate of the movable phtyl, joining I made up your numbers, and drew them as you might let the plate be a parallelogram ABFEjta must be interfered with, utinftar curforis
fupra given the parallel of the Sun laminpDE in- I wish to advance the record ejufq; If you trust the minutes, advance the plate by him each side of the parallelogram is equal to AB he will restore the parallel of the Sun. when perpendicular to the degree of elevation of the pole redo, turn it around so far, do nor the shadow on the middle line of the semicircle A CB has fallen, for there is a shadow for you hour: will show the parties. The reason for this It is also very clear to the mind, when nothing iiudfit, than the inverse of the former: for it is fig in'priori fe had ftyius immovable ad The sunken zodiac was conceived as fertile parallel expansions; fic in this fe has fty the right moveable l attitude of the Zodiac was impressed to the circle was motionless. But this Ta gacibus fufficianr Problem Horofcopii uniVerfalis conftmffiio of another. Olat planifh; rium, of which we are in Ar- te magnetic cap. of Aftronomy ma- gneticadefcripfimus At that time, the conftrudp in the cen tro is attached to the movable rule AB with which carrying AVejufdem at the end of A thus inferred, as the perpetual motion of the quadrant of the rule four And in the quadrant N is curfor I was intruded by a certain phylum, but I ruled by AB la becomes as wide as the arc degrees; and I would have a profit before ready An hour therefore in any par- you will be known by the world, receive the highest honor of the Sun, by that prodigious reason, with which bio take folet: fupra the height of the Sun in advance the wind to the curforum in quadrant A Y. Next, the desired rule of AB is the width of the width nis safe degree, in the quadrant St um bram ftyli curforis, eo ufque detorque do- nor in the parallel of the current day of the Sun gives, and the shadow becomes parallel to the horizon (which is well to be noted) St AB the shadow of the phthyl it will show you the time within the hour lines rias with the former parties. Rise Solis, occafum, the quantity of the day, no- ctis, within the parallels of the Sun he restores the horizon such AB a thief, deorfum in breadth regulce He will fasten the crepusculars. Horofcopium igituy we have done what had to be done. Problem Horolabia mbterica univerjalia feribere-. ZUm fphtera, the true figure of heaven becomes, hu- 'right with no favor They will be shown as it is done. Let it be Artis magm Book VL Vrotei Sfjaraar- Let Iphaera be armed with the horizon, the hours indi- croPlcls the water, the Zodiac; squatter indeed m. drawn from each pole by circles, in equal les parts become diyifqs, eritquefphxra prepa- rate for here give the breadth of the country as well, and fitted to the four quarters of the world the axis of the shadow in. -the equator, and both parallels in he will show equal parts of diyifs ras The reason is clear from ipfo fitu. In another way, through the group of ajlronomkum. C Iftatur the degrees of the Sun of the current day hgafat, v meridian, and the index of the hourly circle in the south the hour is then placed in the second degree Some needles of the current Sunday cce ianyapat infifting: then as before For a long time he turned hither and thither; until the needle fitsW, that is, the end of the shadow, and the index in the horological cycle will demonstrate the time of the as well. The reason is clearly evident. Otherwise, by whom you want another group. It will be eliminated in any exacfe ro- tondo region that is fpeace the torrid zones, such as the deep one: this one You will bring the ball in a semicircle in steps I divided it, so that its poles were given width they wish to be promoted at will Wherefore the priest was the favorite of every lon of the gitudin in the pundto vertices, in the ball to me He laughs and laughs at the lost hours. She dem profus ratio concave hemicy- it can be done. They are of a kind universal horology, which since in fe- we returned to the hot negotiations, here conful- we decided to leave it. Illavero, anyway fita at Clavius lib-8 they are considered nicos, and the support is also omitted mouse, not to strangers, even vulgar let us see the art of the noftram ditalfe. THE PORTABLE LIBQS OF HOROSCOPES PARTICULARS. Problem V. In a given hemicycle [eu hemijpbarium for a given Utitudinum there is almost no business to cast the gnomonic afirolalis.
he says: Take first the circinum repan push the legs, and with one of his legs the limb of the circumference, the other being weighed down nadir, the fifth point of hemicycle A, from Prepare a half-circle inside the vessel then The horizon will be divided into five borders will bifurcate the circular structure. Again with one leg of the circle in G; on the other hand by N another half-circle was written, which T T Hemicycle, in which the aftrolabium it is gnomonic to be thrown out, it is done VNGDad a perfidious round thing guide you proceed, or circle, or throw in plane both methods, which brevity of poflumus, and perfpicui- we will teach tate. Prior Pragmatism thus will make the object in A at the corners reft, divide and the whole horizon in four quadrants tes, whom they cast into fus degrees of diffe- fces, and HAG will refer to the south, NAD but the vertical primary, both of which which are the quadrants NA, AD, AH, AG in You will divide equal parts. Then from G starting in the upper quadrant of GA the height of the Roman pole, for example, is degrees. In this Time Itet- lica. zrB a bjlonicce Of Horolabijs At this level, then, with one foot of the circle, on the other by the half-circle of the quadrant HA leaders, who will be the equalizer. Then on both sides the greatest declination of the Sun; ductiveque arcs parallel to the aqueductor ha tropical drinks; of the remaining pawns lelos art board declination guides also, as in the previous various places it has been said; having learned the character of the pawns a bus far away on the horizon, Itylus will be like that here AO at the center of the horizon terminating net Whence two threads fe in the same fecundity the pointers can be used instead, as here the ND line, &HGoftendent Hours from noon, half noSlein- The equinoctial NKD is divided into what parts Then intercept fpa- that is to say, a quarter DA circle of equal pundits the night hours ending in pun- dtahourary the bows were carried within the tropics, and I would have aftronomic races Registration of the hours from sunrise and sunset. The tropical arc is divided into arc hours most competent day, as in fi you see the gura, and it lasts for about hours of the arc not competent: then from the hour, which the horizon refers, beginning, through the first three points in the tropics, and the equator found between I would have the leaders of the tropical bow circle hour Again during the next hour; pun ftain the tropics, and arc found at the equator leaders of the circle, and would have the hour 8t fic of the other lines of the hours inscribed in the proce give, until you have finished all, and it will be mul complete horofcopio from occafu. You will wear this same garment in the same he- micycle hours from sunrise, five Babylonian; for it is, as it were, very often, of this kind. Portatihbus nothing but the snow of the former Of the ancient hours, five ime so called tropicusini2 squa- read the parts, from the eastern side of the horizon beginning, through the first three points in tro pitch, and found by the equator; give a double bow bit hour'1 but by three each pundta the frequency of another led arc will give within tro peak hour uneven, fic about others you will go on, and it will be an hour when the girdle is resting aftronbmicae: but it will be the same as from rising and setting. So nothing is easier it is by the passing of the uneven hours hemicycle chronology oAlmucantarx, Aymuth's inscription. pEr fingus degrees of the horizon all their heads were at the A pole of the horizon, fe They will give the killers Azymutha. almu- but the circle will give you songs from the cent A per the steps, the autpentades, and the decadence degrees in the quadrant AV, or AG, or A N, feu AD carried away. The other pragmatism, the feu method by project ftion of the group in the plane. The fuperficies of the hemicycle are thrown into the whether, juxtaPragmatiasfol. traditions by twelve parts, or nemfpaciiMAiofpoMs leading in two planes let the refets be equal to the refets curved VAG, or M AD hemicycle, by in- Cyclotetragonic structure, as here Then VAG, which means south, will go parts, five two quarters on each side
divide into equal in a reasonable manner divide the semicircle of MAN. Then I wish cirini foot in grad. quadrant AG, al by grad quadrant A V, circle leaders, in all things,
Lb TT r r JL you will find the fence at the same level; for they refer in these arcs joined to the docamore parts the fourth From this bow on both sides from the same level on both sides of the arch guides degree diverging from the equator; and these will be cus tropici v)b Horafque from the south, hunger will nofte give the ipfae dodecamoria par tes, as you see. You will proceed in the remaining hours the same clothes as in the previous one. If yes there are all hofce cuppids, five twelve die parts, so to the cavity of the hemisphere inferas, both in the pole, that is in gra let the two come together and report together After the lines you were the same, the fourth unpredominant, refreshed on all sides beyond the horizon. See eArtis magna Book Proteus 'Vars l. chapter 'Zte a novel of all kinds of hours, and circles of codefts in any body hollow, extmajpefuperjicks for projecting. N proceeding from flrolabiis gnomonicis in data reda, auttirculari fu I did the perfect projecting a mouse; but now, how I put them in poly bodies instead of mobile phones linear poiTint, to act efl. That while we do, I wonder whether it is more surprising let them have didaaflrolabia in various ways, and irregular outer bodies fictions, various gnomes, flyers what hunger and thirst? or indeed one fito iniifdem of the aforementioned bodies internal and concave finishes, the same throw away the equipment of the coeleft circles really? Of course, if you are two-headed, this is the use of nature more conformable to the operations, so to the other quo which many use, preferring fenders while eating will be seen. Additionally, the shadow all things are better, and more clear, in the hollows us, than in the strange show For in these the shadow wanders, while there are many things on different levels he brings in males; to use by natural propagation to a great extent it degenerates; thus affecting those hon so acceptamfe reports, if you are concave, bivelutifraeno, restrained by the guards, com- She betrays a modiffime feafpedui confufa li a multitude of their projections. Difficult he only paid for the business of the traditional line registration of rum: the difficulty of the fuperanda while we intend, at last a method is met which I will give the easiest fimul 5ccertiffimus, who with he becomes a new one, and we certify that he is here for Ledori I decided to share, since there was no pla whether it is possible to meet so irregularly, in which n on fumma facility in any of the lines fpecies one inscribed, and that the leaves of the table Almujantaro-azymuthica fubfido. Let it be therefore The problem of Vf. The ship collided. QCaphia we call all ifta horology, which will be written in hollow fragments fpluera of any one, which half of the faiths let him reprehend you in the wonderful quadrant Cl, or NO fol. Befcripturus therefore easy files for the reason of aflrolabia in some fcaphius; In the first division of the horizon of fcaphii in par- tes, and through them, and through the center of the fcaphius let the hidden bow be drawn, and I would have Azy- mutha You would feed them in this way, In let the wonderful quadrant be taken from the center A AN is the semidiameter of fcaphius, and AO becomes the axis of Jufdem, five ftylus. If from the center of fcaphii by the punda, where the lines of steps are drawn chin, five circular lineamon t, if the circles are drawn concentrically, you will have Al you would talk Did you spend hours in this dress? incribes Get a map of Almucan taro-azymuthicam, and see in which Azymu- tho, Almucantara Solfithoraiz. you will find Almucantar grad. z8. min. Azimuthumverio. refponderehorae iz. in the table. I therefore find a common Azy- muthi, Almucantara's assassination pun do, count in fcaphii Azymuth de- orphan grad. z8. min. and the term no he will give a pound of earnings z. what the threads Itayi. &ip. min, Azimuth, Almucantara, 2Sgrad. min, Sun in He will give a pound for this on both sides ra Nonfecus of other hours
you will invigorate the punda, and you will have a fimul pun give, pcr which arc dudus will give tropic Similarly, punda hours on the equator, in you will invigorate the tropic: for through three clays the hours of the daughter of the punda bow they will be aftronomic hourly lines. Seriously the hours from sunrise, if you trust, you will receive the board of deputies heretofore so, and you will work with the same profuse reasoning, which in the preceding The parallels of the Sun the same table as the hours below if you bend it, it will boil. Not easily appropriated so the table in the houses of the clefts you bend also affects the offspring of the Zodiac with the teeth, and falling out, through the table to work properly. I shot these pictures in fe Of Horolabii Tortatilius You will find the problems you have caused. refpicing the theme becomes BMA, and the west Problem VII. Incubus the interior and the exterior to cast other fuperficie aflrolalia method, favor regularly graphically C It cube ABCDHIKs whose side CLD, boream refpiciens AFD. Let it be MG, the longitude of the gnomon in the east plane tejgi refpiciente, in M common mterfe&io- nor the horizontal horizontal line, and xqui- a no&ial punftus reftus; EG is a gnomon vertical interior plane rear reflection tis, in the E horizontal line normally erect where GL gnomon plain west refpi- us meridiem refpiciens fitBEC, east-1 hundred. Finally, let GF be the gnomon Borea reflecting plane So if on paper I will take any of the inner planes of Ecquali to the given gnomoneh EG hours qua- fcum next to Probi. lib. according to the precepts in the process you will decipher what has been handed down with your teeth, you will have registered in the vertical plane of the clock gnomonic for those hours whose pla whether he was capable. Likewise, those on the eastern and western plains will kill and boreal to the given gnomons MG, and taiueU GL, FG same hours, lines juxta i"1"' Defcribe the rules handed down in previous mnes line in a kind of wonderful harmony they should correspond, in the interior planes delineated, in which one apex of each the aflumpti of the gnomon in the G punished term nans, oftendet in four divisions necefiario, (if a mistake is made somewhere It will depend on the hourly lines of the rest heat levels But in the exteriors of the hour Competence of the plain clay logos They will show the same extra hours as one apex G points inside. So the cube in the third and outer hours showing we outlined what had to be done. Problem If that which in the exteriors is four the planes would make four divergent gnomes. Quintoio Una still repeats at this point the difficulty of fol- 'fiieMUn- sell about the horizontal plane, which man the fundus refers to the cube, in which the necephalarium with Some horse must be placed, it is asked where they only delineate the horx, or part of the tropics what happens? I am sorry, because this is what I am wearing. Let it be gnomon diH the length of the horizontal plane Dine the sharks on one of the sides of the cube a place in S center-ground, for example; decri- one horizontal clock with the rest of the lines, any one to the given lon the gitudinum of the fthyl GV, or of any of the sides. Then they will be reconstructed from it thus drawn Of the irregular planes of the polyhedron. O Itpolyhedron trapezium ABCD, in cu- right to the interior of the hollow chambers it is necessary to outline the clock, with this art all those parts which exceed the bottom, you shall first project it into the plane. He was taken bafisHSKL for this agglutinated bottom nea in any plane, feorfim AA, in this ArtismavrnLiber VI. Protheus Sciathericus 'Part I. the edges of the polyhedron AB, BC, DC, CA, you will determine, as it appears. Then come transfer the length of the CE cable from A deorfum, ! so that the normal AG refers to A the length, five the height of the vessel: for from the line ABDCA, AG parallel If you unscramble D amnium, it will be a polyhedron tra- They will project the pesium into the plane, and they will report it parallelogram i. sides of a polyhedron. And the side AB will reflect the other side, BD, fum, CA the rising, CD the dawn. If you go there for primary vertical planes,
Eastern and Western also decline these plane horologies particular to lon the gnomon of T O, RO, ON, defcri- pfefis, juxta regias lib. You will have traditions drawing the interior of the trapezoid I will destroy them. You will accomplish the same thing in another very easy way. TC' Xfcin is given from the paper duriufcula trape- zium equal to CABD, from whose pound in the middle, the same figure was inscribed in a circle The parts are divided, and each part is divided from the center ctis, and to the periphery, you add clay numbers HoC trapezium thus app cabis limbo vafis CABD, as the side of the side perfidiously congruent: where the center of the line tra Pezii duds do the sides of the rim CABD, there make a punda with steps; for through this punda perpendicular to the edge dud they will give Azymuthain to two planes. Well- then apply the sides of the trapezoid to the plane did I project the sides of the trapezoid Work as before. To whom Almucanta ras, profuse for the same reason, and clothed, one with the hours you write, what a waste, the same for me we inscribed with the grace of the fourth quarter, and we will teach you to write in those who are fertile. See preceding figure. C or ollarium This is the clothing of all bodies both regular and irregular you write with falsehoods: for who He perceived the reason of one, the reason of others He will not be able to ignore it. Problem X In the cylinder concayo hours together with the circles ccekjlibus gnomonic delineate. Because it becomes difficult in the hollow bodies I would like to say a little about the absurdities of things to inftitue the drawing of gifts; . it will come to life, I will first finish it on flat paper wax, so that they are then brought into the hollow, stick together tinataque, ufumhaberepoffit I really do on planaphsric paper, or with something that to the lust of the interior lusters, and I sneered from each side exactly answering the question Denial is in vain, so take it briefly; Let the cylinder be the first iconif- mi in whose concave hours together with cir it is necessary to write with the clefts. In let any paper be cut out, as in figure do cet, the quadrilateral ABCD, whose opposite the sides AD and CB the length of the cylinder; But the sides AB and CD refer to the same foot ripheria, that is equal to the circumference to the lower as well as to the upper cylinder; you will complete this method. For when near her which was demonstrated by Archimedes the meter is made in proportion to the circumference with the triple fefquifeptima, and have fe as to you will have a shark line cir-Fr0jei0fH. bringing together If the first diameter in will complete parts, but both sides AB, DC in parts of the diameter divided into two parts: tnPlanitmj But if you go around this whole line again bringing the shark into four pairs of sharks you are divided; erit of this line, five par tes of the whole, the sharks of the arc of the quarter dri. Porro nleiiori practice to carry around to anyone you will fasten the reins to the shark with a line than Tnpctywitxvai, five qiiadratricem vo cant. True when de eafuse from fol. queadfol. tradatumfit, adeamledo- We have dismissed the matter. Therefore you are thus presftit the side of the quadrilateral AB will be circumscribed the bearing of the cylinder; the AEDF shark will be one of the quadrants the fuperfiei of the inner cylinder; the whole Let the shape of the quadrilateral ABCD be concave fuperfiei cylinders lnjcription of Amuthor Therefore, by this art, the quadrilateral is equal to to the interior of the fuperfiei cylinder, whether that side AB or DC in parts, fi vas large, or next to quinos, denos, or not let's step, if it is narrow, you will part, parallel lines from the clay steps smoke, you will have azimuthal lines the cylinders are drawn flat, as in figure It appears as an icon. I nfcnptio Almucant of the altars. A Lmucantaras so infcribes. First and Take the fourth quarter of the clock fol. carried away, and those on its side AK determine from A, verfusK the amount of femi- the diameter of the barrel of the cylinder, qusfit AN, inia- t but the height of the quadrant AI determine the cylinder, which fitipfa AI According to the captains of the quarter-degree of the leader, li Neam N 8o. fecent; from this line, fin-
the intervals of the steps on the sides AD, BC, quadrangulicylindriacei translata re push the lines together, they will bring them back to you the butts of the Almucantara, as in the example it is clear T)e Horolabiis 'He carries them. it is clear Or even in the NAM quadrant ABCD is attached to the chain, as in i. figure hu The right of Iconium is clear. Whose side NA like becomes the semidiameter of the cylinder AS, the side also NM is produced in P at the height of the cylinder dri: from the N center of the quadrant to the side AD cylindrical plane, per quarter degree you will lead the reins, they will determine the side AD punda, through which AB, or parallels will give Almucanta-' ras qutefitas The demonstration of this, when it is already more elaborated, he omits it with support he trembles Twelve feet of the Zodiac, and an hour registration of afironomics in the cylinder. UT hours any easier dida ra with the preparation of the cylindrical quadrant I swallow %Ai Artis magna Book VI. Proteus part I throat infcribas, tablets Almucantaro-azy- muthieas to the main elevations of the pole a for us fupputatas, fuperiiis in Apparatusfol. confute, whose help is almost impossible gotio, as in this old cylinder, so in any other internal bodies fu- I will finish both the hours and any others You will be able to register the groups left. explain borarum, ca before you, your pinac clock; wide accommodated in the region of God, and from that bula univerfal impromptu, using pinax to the Roman latitude he demonstrates Now it is composed here an abacus partly from Azym uthis, five round horizontal ferings, partly from Almu- you can sing, five heights of the Sun Tizonte, as the title demonfirant. If so the aftronomic hours of the quadrangle It becomes a mind to inscribe you with a cylinder, rest on Sunday at the hour; iz. on the board refpondens Azimuth, 8qAlmucanta- ram, and found Azimuth indeed. But I had eaten dTe7x. grad. z8. min. why is it in the line AB of the quadrilateral cylinder dracei fiiperior, or inferior, abXF pun- beginning at noon: then in the same You will count the azimuth deorphum degrees. z8. min. where in Almucantara with z8, min. It makes the meridian azimuth, there efl pund horte iz. five pounds that the sun's ray, while in the beginning mo ratur, hour iz. strikes. . Punda hours 5'ita in cylin are found on the dragon plane. Why Azy? muthu hifce horis correfpondens in co lumna videlicet grad. min. together with Almucantara grad. min. that from the point X, or F meridian, in the line EF, velEC the mustache of the cylinder, why; this between Al- you would have written on the plane: for where Al- they munch grad. min. Azimuth grad. min. before noon cat, there will be an hour; by which tropic also to be led efl. Not faeces in the rest of the hours pundi in rpmno- to pass through the ranks of the the matter of punda hours eedcmprorfus reason Solein T ax conflicted; for where Almuc in the column a table of T&axfignata Azym. do correspondence, there will be punda ho- Mmucantara-aymuthic table for aflrnomic hours,
G M G M G M G M Hor. Azym.
Somewhere IC M 7X of rare equinoxes. you will find the equinoctial, fi from the point X Azy mute grad. iz. min. count And you came to rest, where Almucantara degree 7Z. min. correcting him, that in the plane of cy if he has made a lindraceo, for there will be a pound at the first equinoctial hour, At the beginning of the sun also panda hours $MnioP we have said, they will be found; to be sure given ho-
rai figno Azymuthicum data Almucan It is known as tara slaughter. To all of them push the bag, fi through the clay three pounds hour v. g. in V, found, reda conjun- are held, you will have a line at the first hour as well. The same goes for other hours I will draw one line you shall have a completed clock. If anyone but he would trust the whole Zodiac, all parallel pegs in the same plane to write De Horoiahtjs
to write, the same profuse system will work not in the rest of the pawns parallel hell push, we have done in the tropics and the equator registration A few hours from sunrise, and I fell asleep at the given time registration of the cylinder. T7 Go to the next table, feupinacehoro- in the Babylonian and Italian graph, where it is wrong in three fignes they will kill Almu- You will sing with Azymuthis at the hour Vorutiiibm. 5'S If you draw a curve on a cylindrical plane, it will give il let me tell you the hour whose distance from the hour zonte occidento, fi from the horizon in lines T io tranflulerus, you will have an hour from or you have registered You will not work for other people in the following hours, starting from hour in retrograde order in Italian hours, or redo in the Babylonians, teach which table bit, hour ipfe horizon, five linea AB, he will report to you. See the figure attached here, which will teach you all things better than myself I can explain it in many words. tis: for by three these punishments were found in Almucantaro-Aymuthic table for the hours from sunrise and sunset giving the Roman horizon.
Oh, the mucus Azym. zz A
Somewhere Azym. ; zi
Somewhere Azym. zz t
Somewhere Azym. D ornorum coelefilum und with hours from sunrise in the cylinder bearing. picking up steps and minutes Azymu- of Thorus, and of Almucantara, near the three Ti gna they are diligent in noting interfe ctions common to those circles? for there will be a punfta, through which the lines are drawn they will afflict the poor of the house. Absolutely nothing it is easy: why is it a fupervacaneum out of tears? smoke longer in the same room; see para the dignna of the houses of the nobles inferred Table The segment of Qlindri concaVi tineas hours ah occafu, d middie, media noSie-exhibens. Almucantaro-Ajmuthica map for the houses of the Celebs.
House G M G M G M House Somewhere Azym.
XII Somewhere Azym.
VIII Somewhere Azym. cT 3Z B zj
VII together with the houses showing the roofs. OKEVT Unfathomable hours, planetary jive, to inscribe a square For example, select for the hour Pla- netaria of Azymuthor, Almucan degrees of tares, and minutes, when the Sun, give that is to say, at the hour of V by three punishments of killing Azymutho rum with Almucantar in the quadrangle you will join the wind straight, you will have a quaffi then You don't have to worry about other hours. Map of Almucantar-Aymuthica for pro horis imqua1ibusf fire planetariums
G MG M; G M G M G M G M G M
x Horiz. oVertic.
Horiz. A Vertic. Somewhere Azym.
xy x4 Hotiz. A oVertic. The signs of the ascendant, and the sign of the zodiac to inscribe the same.
If the foregoing is well understood, ni- hil here it will be difficult to reproduce for in the same way in the manner in which we proceed here with help thought to be successful, the Scheme will be made, which dangling time together with afcendcnte, the most perfect demon burn Tj% Epb' Bpilogus device So you were at Uadrangulo for hours, and around iijs, as it has been said lyndri form adapted to the cavity of the cylinder Miungu dri ha infipuabis, as BC, AD sides in in a cylm- unam profus line together? but the line dmmtuU- AB will follow the lip of the cylinder, and it will be cy- UH0' lindrus prepared. As indeed it is already a shadow he will demonstrate the inscribed matter: the phtylus from the center The mustache of the cylinder will be erected, which ends it will be in the center of the orifice; in fact having first been fit and the shade outside half of the axis stumbles unfaithful. , Problem X In the conic fuperficie, Jfoe yafe some po you will refer to the time, the hours, and the circles to inscribe When the light becomes the most suitable figure of all, didtas res five reflexo ray demon, let us briefly describe the device here we will Therefore let the Vessel be of the shape which it bears figure Iconifmi d. fignatum of the letter ABCD;
the whole figure of the whirlwind is transferred into the figure flat, as in progress We threw the cylinder into the plane with the problem drum, by this method. First, in the fourth quarter of the wonderful ma The width of the axis of the cone ED is determined in the width in the area of quadrant AI, and the line AR becomes fol. and the semidiameter of the horizontal circle let the cone E A, or EC be determined on the side AK of the wonderful quadrant, and the line AY becomes Ex at this point Y in R a line is drawn, in which case should bear the line of the side of the conic, Pra- Here we have shown the difference in figure pbiLMfemediameter conicobafis; LN axis NM refers to a nickel-plated cone, LMO the fourth part of the miracle, from which we cen tro L line by degrees they will make NM I was thrown into the side where I was. In the second place, the line was drawn between the gaps NM, on any paper bow ST which you divide into parts, so that each that part of the oval becomes one of the parts of the diamond divide the three AO figures into parts, and steps are drawn from the center through the molds return, by which the bow ST into four parts, four quadrants of the cone ABCD they divide the respondents, so that the figure clearly de- shows Thirdly, the clays are divided into quadrants after starting with pundto N parts on both sides, then by steps of clay, become a vessel was large, either by means of quintessence, or days, or fortnights, it was twenty-three days, in you will bring down the center of the 5th row, which will refer to zymuthal circles. Almucantarasitain you write I marvel at the square, or the square The great art of Uber VI. Qroibei Bars LMO figure note carefully where I draw the line from the center cent line MN; or even parchment apply to it, carefully note the steps in it I give For if this parchment is one of the rays apply to the conic plane, for example the line VT veres, and in it the pundta of degrees ris, arc of parallel circles through eadudh they will give the Almucantars quofites. I will not continue to register Azy's wallet cta, be done by the previously appointed tables in those hours with the speedy circles that method, which we taught you you will find when but with the pleasure of your mind I will paint a planifforium conic ro, the fire of the whirlwind concave fuperficie unregistered You will also be able to say everything in in a glass, in a fire crystal glass to make this flat sheet of paper put a glass cone of fuperficia, &forinfe- then line the mold with an oily color pour out the rum, and you will be painted fubtily; Ityl apex in the center of the horizon, five lips co nor will the correfpondent show the hours, the ass, which at that hour the sun goes down. Problem XI. Planifh&rium (ciatheric cubo concayo to inscribe Didtum elt hither and thither, with what art Iphoria is a circle of hollow bodies they ought to be charged with crimes: now it must also be taught, in what manner the angle rium, five polygonal bodies conca the force of the infallible poffint. A cube therefore ma we teach the canonical beginning. Let ABCD be the given concave cube figure Iconifmi in whose concave pla- I need to outline the fciatheric water lily teat: first of all, the sides of this numjuxta figure x they are to be carried out which is done by art and method. They are supposed to in one straight line the four interiors You will make the cubes, and you will return EFGH, turning primary heat plane, west, but AECG is eastern, and ABCD is northern. Finally, will refer to the horizon plane such that it must be joined to the vertical plane of the pri of the sea EFGH, as is evident in the example. I therefore lie down in the plane of the fic, hori on the zontal plane, that is, as in the third the figure is clear, the circle is inscribed, which in parts, five in four quarters, as it appears in shape, is divided, and lines or by fictitious steps able to use merit, either in quinos or denos we have done here, fi vessel Ilridius has been) to li let them be led, and let them be noted. then apply to these mustaches the cube of fedda quartantibus EFHG. BADC, AECG, so as to perfectly suit them, note Turk In fcypho glass them deli deny Horokbtjs PortatBhs, fjj ititquc in lingulis quartantibus pundta nu
merike near the side of GHbafi. Where is the bag? cto from the pundits of the fe&ion line marked GH be drawn parallel to the lines in the clay which the wires mentioned, in that order of numbers, and strike that which appears in the figure: for they will bear these lines of azimuth. So they were fed Infcribes: Take the wonderful quarter, as the figure q the transference of the lines, which are in the plain no horizontal figures between S, GH, or MG, for example SM, S S S in la tus quadrant AB, figure: fignatifque pundfis LKIM on the side AC height You will determine the cube, to which from as many parallel leaders Even after this, fin- of five degrees, or of ten degrees the points of intersection first from the line M You will transfer Yy Art magm Book VI. Proteus @arts transfer to line M. Then interfer of the same degrees of punda, which are made in line of the quadrant, transfer in vertical line BI, hungry punda in- Terfedion degrees from the line. which drantis transfer in verticalrh YK60. fic in other lines of others to work on transferring the rum points in both directions while all the pundas of the height of the Sun are equal find yourself east of the vertical plane of the MEG ris, qu punda from the line EF in the part of the occi you will transfer the same dental plane FMH; for the pinnacles of the degrees belong to the fibi if you draw curved lines, have twice Almucantaras Azymuthis which are made in another tequaliaplana in the same order and you transfer the interval, you will have Azymu- thorum Almucantarum in fingulispla nis defcistration quatefite The twelve signs of the Zodiac, the hours that of Aflronomica, also ah ortu, occa- fu, and of the planets in the sky registration Encrypted in the cubic plane, using a didus it is, Azymuthis, and Almucantaris. Zo the deacon together with the Aflrnomic hours, Ba Bylonian, Italian, planetary, cce houses to the left, the pawns going up through the tables proceeding with fine lines of fpieces at the level of those who are proficient in the system fcribes, which we taught above. But the thing is let us declare by example: Let it be, for example, an hour inscribed in the cubic plane: core on the board, feu pinace Almucantaro-azymu- thico three pounds d. itae hours in 2o Y this it is Azymuth, and you give Almucantara the competent hours in the given places: that Indeed, you are looking for a pound on both sides of the line EF; in the findings of the Azymuthis counting the smoke For where Almucantaras kill Azymutha, there will be pundas by which line should be drawn between the tropics bit hour For this reason in om- you will proceed with the rest until you have completed it as well as Aftronomic work. Wherefore do I betray bring the plane of the cube here, so that Let the sides be corrected from the sides of the former. In but the right will be the intersection of two threads fubtiliflimor JffiWfe in the center of the hour zontis of the square making. Problem Pyramidi, JtPe concaco tetrahedron ean dem jewelry of lines to read See first figure Iconymmi prece tooth, in which the pyramid ABCD is formed, whose on the inner sides the hours should be reduced to drink First, to use the previous ones it is, thus in this place the concave of the pyramid in the pyramidal plane must first be transferred it is that by which it is made, by reason. Bearded grouse dri, five of the pyramid ABC invert the bottom in the paper is transferred, as in figure appa ret, from the center of the circle circumscribed by V let them draw a line, which the circumference in parts or even in parts, which are decades of the circle, they will do; for they will report these vertical lines circles on the horizontal plane the projections of the zontal pyramid. Surfaces but the thirds are thus inscribed in the pyramidal plane: Take the side of the pyramid dataBD, or CD, and at this interval the arc of the cir HGFE's ass, into which you transfer the lacerations of the beard of the pyramid, and the lines EL, FL, GL, HL in center dude, you'll have a plane prespara- then, to whom Azymutha first inscribes thus: one of the cxlaters of the mustache of the pyramid will be cut off delineated, and divided into Azymutha fum, the side, I say, AB (like fig teaches) transfer together with the former divisions in the lines of the plane of the pyramid EF, FG, GH. Yes for by means of this punda you draw out the lines from
If you draw the center L, you will have the azimuthals li nea s in the pyramidal plane. As for these You will inscribe almucantaras with this art. From the cent tro V, let him outline the mustache of the pyramid be transferred to the side AB of the quadrant ABD figures the line between Y and line X B, or XA, intercepted: and from where transfer the KLMNOP to the AC side tur line red to R pound, five peak of the pyramid (why fspace AR only becomes it will bear, how much is the axis of the pyramid. This so that the Azymuthis were inscribed in the Almu- to sing See where the KRin quadrant line is the rays of a quarter of a degree will kill you, but which you will transfer to Ipacia of the interlopers Azimuth side GFL, which side eritrefpiciens Auftrum, confequently li Nea KL will be the southern line. Then you from where he made the line MR of the quadrant radius, for example I give Azimuth, &hafcein- Transfer the terfedions to the ML Azy line mute 6o. in the pyramidal plane line GF Interfedions, however, in IR line Azy- transfer the questions to lines HL, GL, FL, L. For if the punda levels are homogenous you have joined them in curved lines twice Almucantaras qufitas Infcriptis go tur pyramidal plane Azymuthis, Almu- you can sing, of the rest of the hourly lines fuppelledilem, with the same profuse reason, in order with the help of the preceding tables bes, in which the unprmiflis is unfathomable. But hey better and easier experience than I can explain in many words Finally, they will teach you everything. problem Probieius XIII. Horolabiis fortatihbm. g chalk is known to a few, and that in Art We will clearly introduce the Combinatorics Given any number of sides prepare fmateprecedent circles then to write to him. It is clear from the preceding inscriptions, which given any first form, to use in hu the right of Iconium the figure of a prism of a hexagon it appears, how in the hollow of his command the teeth of the apparatus of things First, circumscribe the given polygon a circle was divided into parts, as figure shows. Secondly, the sides of this mustache are transferred in the line, AB, so as to make a square plane light to the height of the body in fuas fuperfi- cies distributed, as in the previous parallel It is a long way to the fuperficies of the lopiped, &figure declares fate. Thirdly, a pound of fations on the sides mustache from the lines from the center to the circumference made, clays belong to clays you will make the planes of the bodies of the polygon be transferred, and from where parallel smoke (except in bodies pyramidal, where the lines are at the top of the pyramid dis coibunt) will be drawn, for they will be h li neae, Azimutha of the body quafita. Fourthly, the space between the center O of the mustache of the body of the polygon of figure let the LM division be transferred in which a beneficent bys, and parallels deorfum, as in the cube defcription fadufn efl, they are led; for with the help of these Almucantara The azimuths are inscribed by that profanity, which in the previous ones has been done. Fifthly, therefore, you must register by the dida method in the polygonal body of Azymuthis, Almu- you can sing, you are a fubfido the rest of the hours and lines left You can easily charge the equipment. Why do I dare? tibium, as the Pragmatias in the preceding you are familiar with frequent practice you will pay for with their help nothing is so difficult for you Cile will meet with the worse, the reason of which you will not be easily noticed. in which pots, aftronomic hours, do we inscribed the mouse cleftes: that plane in the prism of the hexahedron tail dodrina quafita Corollary. Ihil eflein the whole Gnomonic breadth lest, what fummo, and admirable what I will summarize, and briefly through the leaves fce Almucantaro-azimuthic maps, which we have previously proposed to you and the account of which is to be calculated by others We have taught him, but he cannot do it. What fe- Problem XIV. Infruniento m all rum with the concave fuperficies so regular than irregulars, no matter what to describe all kinds of clocks. Any body of a polyhedron the las of the intrument, the fupra leaf.
and firm in it, so as not to be moved may Then schedule the prototype fup in the same place that it was first fitted, ver- taturquetotum phyflema vnacum prototy- po polyhedron deputed to impress the hours: to, hither and thither, until the phtylus prorotypl horolabii fupra fingula hours punda in the Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn Yes at the same time to contact the shadows dus, in the polyhedron the fingle of the extremity um you have carefully noted the brae punda; clay punda in the polyhedron marked on the curve con- drop the line, they'll give you the tropics tos: St fi hours you return to the punda of the children they will give you enough hours you But when these things are already over of the rest Ledor from the preceding fufto- the thing will take intrusion. Problems XV. In the tetracycline column, that efl in quatuof parts in the form of a hollow cylinder, horo- lips of all kinds to write. O It in the tetracycline column, for the fourth you i the figure of the prefect of Iconium Vili. presents concave eylindracei ichnography XYZN, ut bafis teaches the figure of IcOnifmi, micycle ABC Auftrum, FED Ortum KL Let him reflect on MOccafum and IHGBorea. Yes gnomonic aflrolabia delinea in clay twice, Azymutha is led first, &AlmU" sing those clothes, with which the dust in the cylinder I have a hollowed out smoke register. What do you do? it will also be done, a semicircle on a sheet of paper Give, yel, another material of water to one of the four semicircular fragments into parts divide it: for here with the semicircles ABC, FED, IFIG, MEK inferred blow m punda af- he will fasten, through which to the beak of the f. etracycli through the perpendiculars will give Almucantaras with the same profanity inscribe it, by which the same is quoted in the cylinder to incripfimus And to these the Zodiac four times the kind of hours, and the rest the equipment of the groups is the same Profound reasoning, thanks to Almu's board appropriated by cantaro-azimuthic clays Iincribes, with which the same omnipartimpra- yield Artis magm Liber VL Protbei Part I I contf mouse ywanns Oli's heart: fy: (T CoroUs
retreating, we incriped, partly in the I will register with you. Of this kind in hor to the Pontifical Quirinale not so long ago DoVtiffimus Theodophius Rubeus ruled PrivernasJurifconfultuSRomanus, thematicus Pontificius, in which, instead of I spent hours with the sting of Urbana's apes, abroad quedemonftranc, with this Virginia spring was. There are a lot of things to do with the roof of the house. drawing In no small way the tetracy pyramid secretly, which figure presents to you, you will infer: tetTAedrn hemicycles hg, fe, c d, ah, in twice degrees they are divided, from whose clays and whose, or they will give two redfce at point X Azimuth; You will have almucantaras, fi fin you affixed the quadrants to the flowers, as in the hemi- You see the cycle efie, For through which dram T)e Horolabis Vortatiles. drants mno degrees each to the hollow fu- they will give the final result in the middle of the he- a line of missiles, through which; from the punished X they will give Almu as the center of the bow you will sing well; in which hours lofque cleftes infcribes the same profus ra tion, which was done in former times. Veiinta- Pari paito in the prism of the pentacycle, which tioinprif- the figure he flatters, you will depict the rich; Fed We will find the mtttepenta- rem predicted. Let it be a pentacycle c ichnographiaabcde, whose finingulihemicyc- li in twice Q. this is divided into o. parts, as was done in the proceeding tetracycle. Yes and now by the degree of punishment hemi- cycles fixed to normal bafin, equidi- you will lead them away, they will give you Azymutha. Again I affixed to the four losfghzk, as the figure teaches, fi perfigulos degrees from the center to the middle of the hemicycle li You will not fix the points with a thread, or them they will give it if you translate it from the plane of the circle arc drawn by diita punita parallcs Al- you'd mucantaras, net the hemicycle, enter that with the help of the table; Almucantaro-azy- muthica, as you will first define the schedule. Corollary I neKM-llTInc is also clear, by what reason the pyramids thioinalia Jt tetrahedra horologia so fruitful in-
Mnedrafi-tenorcm than the outer fuperficie ar- tifically on the plane they first want to be drawn. as in figure fold: which then fold ta in the inclined planes the quarters of the world re- For the builders, in the clay sides as in- trenches, which you extricate, as figure f. I give cet, hours and the rest of the time. wear this cone, as figure shows, li ingenio doctrine: cceleftisfynopfin defcri- bes All this is more clear in the fertile they will be Corollary. With this art hexacyclic column, heptacy- cla, watches of all kinds You will be able to write with a skillful artist do, in which all the flowers are at the same hour, or diverfalin generademontrent. What all things are also in vain Finished polishing successfully. In the fummity with which that the pillar of the bee was erected in the middle of the center (fto, within the circle I will divide it into parts demonstrative winds But it will be done machine, which in hollow fuperficies ventisrefponclenterdivifa, totidemdi- you turn things around; would demonstrate The truth about we will talk more about this machine in Magic ho- rographic In the same cone, as many cones they polish the defibrillators of the hollows. All this is made clearer by the figure of the presiding col they polish the ties, more than I even with many words to declare SCIATHERIC PROTEINS PART TWO equinoctials HOROSCOPES to each one of the figures to be painted. CHAPTER I Of families, ftye tmiverfali. Problem Horofcopium tetracyclum aquinoftiale defcnbere. We call it the Etracycle leafy body, which toor parts excavated in fem i circular clay planes shows the bus hours. Let ABCD be laxus, as the figure of this Iconifmi8. pre- or wood, or something some body; a fanciful circle in four the ends AB, CD of the lines in Q fe with the points of the song, the semicircles were drawn, as you see: each of them in twelve cim be divided into equal parts by a quarter theme twelve (We call here qua the thorny heathen, who are equal in the field parts, divided into five equinoctial hours: hstUmvrm we call the dodecamic circle in equal parts, I will divide the feuhours: which we would first like to point out to you, lest in fe- z z next Aviis magm Liber Vl. 'Proteus Tarsus you will be confused with those who. If then next to hofcefemicirculos body you excavated, jhorasjuxta led hourly lines if you infcripfer, you will ffiabe the clock fcriptum, which is below the squinodtial plane placed and fitted monftrabi. t hours from every side by which it was illuminated. The gnomon's turn ipfa the sides of the cross fuftine- 'they will, use& AE, CG, BF, FD, in the points EF, 'GE, normally erect gnomons: who who they polish it on the same day they excavated it as you can see, the width of the miereuli fuperficia. Namhorsquoq; in ipfa latitude gnome whether they will be inscribed on both sides, so as to be affixed from Tremble, and the shadow of the transfverfaftyli in the fuperficia monfttat the hours of the circle; so extreme, transfer yerfa shadow cast by the semicircular hour demonstrated in the gnomons AE, CG, BF, FD, in the form of a plate normally you look Problem Describing the four-pointed cross "Olat Cross from any material, whose fold the ends into semicircles vata, how figurative it is clear Hoccofito, in half-circles, and four hours of the same profundity by reason of incribes, which in the preceding Pro it is a problem. On the sides, however, the leg cis, attached to the ends of the arms MN, QP, LI in the fourth quarter, that is I will divide the waters into four parts, After that time line is drawn in the direc- dtum, where the sides touch, along that line parallel to each other, and to the sides How they are led, and you will have a cross I have written the cmd log: and the hours in that order they are written, which you see here. Where, however, ob- to boil the elt, weigh the sides of the quarter culure ede femper hour i x line, transfer but in the early morning, or to demonstrate the fpertina line. But Jephthah a cross of the aquinodtial plane in any It will show the hours placed in the position of the world. But this is easier than most
they deserve to be defcribed by yerbis. Look at the figure. corollary From which it is clear, by the same reasoning with which we define the tetracycle, I define pofle pentacycle, hexacycle, heptacy- clum, oCtocycle, enneacycle, decacy- clum, wherever the hollow micircular bodies. Problem Cfomen J E SV horofcopum defcribere. "It was written on some leafy wood, ve- Iconij- boxwood clay, or ebony, which is the width of the finger. let him have health, the image of the name JESUS, one with ix. or xq ra appears: then extensified, and effigied with the beams of a leafy tree, two of them were cut out you will draw and draw two radii ABC, DCL In to the former point A is attached AEC quadrant he- Ctamorius, or even a quarter of a quarter AEC divided into the following parts: perpun- for they will make the right leaders of the divisions side DC, the radii of the leaves of DCI impaled; which carefully noted: for by these things from Y to your figure in the center, the hidden circle from either side-- that the figures drawn to the side will make the molds ra the gods in the points, and the straight in the rays of the faces fciatheric rum conjoined, they will give lines hours, in which hours in the order in which Here you see what has been done. of which 9omoia indeed, the order is here. All the lines in the api- hoAzr quo the fuel rays are perpendicularly defcen- ortively fiel- the teeth are the lines of the garden iz. All again lines tranfverfs from the tips of the rays du5ts inline i x. normalesfuntlineghorgfext? wherever they may fall: from whom in order of birth to the rest of the intermediate lines and to ix. You cannot write down the number of hours. Who is good? you will never die in hours you may be wrong. The name of JESUS is in this i-logo. put on the face of a watchmaker. Let it be done with character the matter of the name of JESUS from the leafy material the latter with the rays of sculpture, cujufrnodi you see marked letters AB, CD, EF, GH, IKL. In whose clay tips it is attached drans heCtamorius, and the extremes are noted the points of the lines drawn from the center, where they shall cut off the quarter of the forgery; through these nor in the faces of the fciatheric parallels of the leader they will give the hours recorded on the sides. True all these things are better in figures than in many, and they are offered with rude words. Why do you come together? figure as X0 HonUuis Twtcttihbus,
Let us know what you want ura Situatvom. C s ities! bed
HUl figure}, of this Iconifm. In the hours of the side but the character of inscribing the same to you make a burning law, that they may go forth you For all perpendiculars, a line hours iz. tranferfae lines, however, hour re they bear The site will be below the plain lc, so that the line of the hour iz. on the same plane it fits; and the ends of the rays everywhere on the sides of the rays, and of the characters, the hours they will show off; for these are nothing else equinoctial horology, as from confiru- ction is clear. z Artis magna Liber VL Proteus part IL ConfeBarium. P X It is clear from these that no figure of preference should be given, n-ofola- l-itiquahore not to be defcribi fimili reason 'm suit' poffint By this agreement you would be dear to anyone, and the names of YiroruhiiUuftrium hondreceelico you will decorate Instead of paradigms, we mus name FERDILANDUS: whereupon Impe- jimm. rial Aquila rejoices that the gnomonic ra- iconurmu -ix fZ)i? Horolahiij frortatiles.
We are so described by our gifts as by those of the molders characters shadow on opposite sides of the cha- delete the current hour monftrent, Spedaculum to use nov-um, so I lived a most delightful life. Note, however, that whatever character someone is lame it is, like ADR, then crena, live opening in in the last place the sun-shining shell was relaid The trickery of charades will entertain you for hours. That and about all the other things I am writing about it happens a little while ago. In like manner the lily, the feu ftemmata of those three men in the codus transfers, and infinite others, which are from the aforesaid they will be able to conduct themselves with almost no business. Problem jiqullam hotologa jerebere. advancing figure happy face, fire sides for the hours to bring down, When this is done, it is attached to the tips of the tongue ABCDEFGHIK, hemo quadrant rius, and the lines will be drawn in opposite directions
cies, and punda terminating the returns to be conjoined they will give the hourly lines, as you see. order the feuinference of the hours is the same in all; as in the preceding events, in the fair the night plane is the same; for extremes the peak of the shadow falling on the opposite faces they will stumble for hours. In the heart of the Eagle We painted the hours from sunrise to sunset the loggia is universal; whose Itylus in the cent tro, feu pundb normal hours demOn- will break Icanifnm wood, or any other material likeness the Imperial Eagle, which then, as in Problem (J)e Catholic clocks fupraplanu polare. cylinder of the polar plane to spin, so that the whole shadow is further on the plane I fubjedo, and I was in my own body for hours monllret, critfiue fimul Itylus, &horo- gius Let the circle ABCD be a cylinder in which two-parted, quadrants, each of which BA, AC, fitinfexpartesdiyifus. If so to the hemorrhagic rays touching the lines of the du- a noir you will show them off in any way the plane of punda hours, in which the cylindrical the bra fell: in the putrid verity of the contaduum the shadow of the smallest cylinder it will break; of which AF is the transversal ray the hour line: parallel and perpendicular to it hour ii. to polarize the plane. Sufficient au the hemi-cylinder is brought down to the polar plane, in such a way that its axis should reflect the meridian line. Problem VI. aAmmlmi horologu confit mr e unherfalem. Qltannulus from any material of the middle finger AEFG, and have cre for in A the weight; from which the plane the first quadrant of the twelve-chamber BDC as you see: each from A cejitro per punda the lines of the divisions, they will make from the circumferen- then the rings in the pundis, through which the fertile the width of the parallel ring drawn form-pwrMs, they bought a clock; raise the ring it will be near the plane of the equator, and the crena re- the meridian will set: for the sun will rise on my feet weaving in the lower part of the circle, pounds the fitas demonft rabit. Zz y. APGT Great Art Book Protheus fars II. C A P U T II T)e particular clocks instead of mobiles. Problem VII. niomonicum prap arare, m quofiylus Perfacilis totius primi mc teaching Pragrmacia I The first drawing of the globe. %c6nit psris X Let it be a group, as much as possible teft, round from each; material fitquevertical ej us primary DBE C, BAC meridian, DAE horizon; whom you will also divide into parts. If, therefore, by fictitious points, feu degrees on the horizon DE Diftainduftria fixed circles (what will happen, be according to some rule in the movable pole, and the fufra steps in the quadrant DA, AE applied punta impreferis) who om Lest they should be killed in the Poles BC, you will lead: give Azymutha was brought down by a globe to him. with the help of which Almucanraras, thus mferibes. ttfkifoi' Second, take the length of the flyliBV, 'fi(' orBS; hanequein in the miraculous quadrant in la determine AC: then draw to CA perpendicular from the point A, determined in it na the size of the hemidiameter of the globe: lust perpunftuni A circle of leaders contingent tem line in A, which refers to the surface area of the group ret: the lines, indeed, from G, the rays of the sun rent, from, the tip of Ityl Vin the fuperficiem of the group. falling So see what you are punching in in the wonderful quadrant they will make the arc B K linear from C dudtre; for hxc from the B pole of the group in either quadrant BE, or BDtrqnfla- fa will give points, pet quse circles from the same In pole B they will give Almucantara. Yes He said, "Whoever is free from labor. alterapra- Almucantaras, more briefly this genius xisopequa-bet, dudta from E, to use fig. Iconif. teaches ilTipgurce pundto, normal in V peak Ityl; from which I became of this gift, every quarter of the interval BE in you have ordered the parts to be divided, they will be tangent linearly from the center of the 5th quarter fti the ball in pundtis, through which from the B pole the circles will give Almucantars the cure you Therefore, in the first hours of the day, By this art you bring him the ftronpmicas: Take it Almucantaro-azymuthic map in proceeding a few hours from noon, Remedies note see hour z. Sun oc cupping in the quota of Azymuth, Almucan-
The sun becomes wild, and Romere finds here min. it will refer to the meridian BC iotus; Almucanfara, however, grad. min. in the same way it will give a point z. The sun in the See the matter in the table com the task of killing Azymuthi, Al- mucantarx for hour j And ix, how inve nies counting on both sides from A meridian pundto grad. minutes zo. in the same from B grad. min would have pundta pro at the said hour The rest did not work in the process of invetiganding rum hours give Babylonian, Italian, ancient, through special tables in the proceedings You will bring down your appetites by the same artifice. For through imaginary punfta hours in the Sun in the thick of the tropics, where the parchment is curved I will give you a folding bag, or other clothes they are tropical; give pitches hofnogenearedtis conjoined lines they will be the lines of the hours. What happened? apply the square rule to the pole B, which you refer to rat in a mobile quadrant, in it- that punfta of the arc of the B A quadrant of the miraculous, or of the quarter of the BVE transftular you will be able to the other end of the Azimuths, Almucan and by the division of fate in the group, folo ho rizonte in divide parts, operations all riches with almost no business re: If viflslicet this mobile quadrant you could have been given the fupra Azimuth a po lo horizon B beginning in the same Azy You will count the Almucantaras. For the term i of the calculation of the hours obtained They will give points at the end of the difficulty. Ufus jflrolabii gnomonic fpbaricL i" T Beat ftylusSB foot, in Badrettos attached to the corner, which is the foot of the ball You will bring the polotes, so that I may be in it like an ax He can be moved wherever he pleases; so, however, that the line of the phthalic femper should touch ball at point B; can also be done fty- on the other hand, that is a double bra-; conftant with which, utVS, with which then to either side you will be able to use it. tilis, and fitted with a ball, so that the circle B AC corresponds to the southern part of the region: With the sun shining, the flower turns here and there until its shadow makes no difference when it is turned a circle of heat, that is, it becomes a net to the globe: and this fat will show its apex in the fuperficio of the group at one glance of the hours at any time, and at any time, in with which the sun is at once confounded. CoroBamm. Xhis is done: be in any given cone, cylinder, parallelepiped, prism, or where five is regulated by any body, five irregular, in them the same prbrfug ratio be- I make a tableau Almucantaro azimuthic hours, and foreign countries, and extremes tati axis of the two bodies the light Book VI of the great art. Proteus part II. You put in the verfatal juice, everything in the dido- rum of the bodies of the fuperficies, which in the glo I will be demonstrated. But in a short time clear paradigm bus. Pragmatism II. In the conical surface, you can inscribe different things. First, let the cone ABC be given, as in figure it is clear, in whose fuperficione ho ras, Given then the length of Ityl AS, or AN, which in A the axis of the cone becomes verfatal, as in the preceding di as long as it is; the hours were inscribed by this art: the mustache of the cone in it is divided into parts, by which, fi ex pun When you bring the reins to the tips of A, they will give them to you Azimutha Again the quarter was drawn exSperpundum From the apex of the cone, through cu right limbus in degrees you give them to touch the creaminess of the cone in the punds, through which from A circle the dudes will give Almu- how many times can you sing Register Almucanta ris from proalegatis. tabulis, hours, with a cone, as it was a while ago. This cone to filed in the four quarters of the world, so that Asia mute90 refpond to the south, ftylo I will turn my face to the Sun, as if I were a child in it Gnemo- em Pano becomes a vertical right, in which Sol it lingers a long time, and its extremity shows this fciathe- bitquofitum. But for the water teft, the shape of any animal in the tip tilis, the extremity of which is a tail, or roftri, as you see, or even in the human form of a scepter the end, in the last pound of the term
it is not woven, as shown in figure Qorollarium rtco. that they meet in the cone of Azimuth; in a cylinder dro fint occidiftantes, as in the figure on p. clay pot It appears in the letter XY. All the rest of them they are wherefore to describe him to several people fupervacaneum efe ratusfum Pragmatism III. Inscribe said things in the pyramid. Q It is a quadrilateral pyramid ABCE, as the figure O. snorted, on the sides of which he breathed I cut off the aftrolabium. It was recorded first the circle is squared into parts divifus, with a line from the center produdo in la tera square will give punda, by which ex From the top of the pyramid redo bunt Azymutha (it becomes the first, five Azimuth, AC meridian line referring) And this operation infti- yours in the alrera of any number of sides of the pyramid. Dudis, then, Azymuthis, was written from S apice phtyli verfatilis quarter in gra a rich rod, from the center of which S thread is brought up and in the fourth quarter of Azimut See in the table Almucantara's degrees al of the sun, while in the tur; for through these from the center of the quadrant a thread extenfum in Azimuth will give punda at o'clock all the pawns. Also promote A quarter of a quarter is attached to a piece of wood Azimuth and by degrees of altitude at this hour, the sun in the clay pots to, competent, I will extend the wire from the center the discovery of Azimuth, he will give a pun give the line and in the figulic figures of the Zodiac. Nonfecusde pundi hours in other Azy you will proceed to find the dumb; in which winds, fi punda of all hours to pa I joined the ralles of the Sun with the corresponding curves they will give you a bow of pawns with that one: be true pound of parallels to one hour fpe- they will give you that lines of hours. Therefore, placed py branch, so that The azimuth is made in the plane meridian, verfatilisftylus will show in whose animal form the intruding sun of Asia I will face the dumb in the fuperficies of the pyramid, horography Pragrnatia IV Horolabia prijmati to inscribe. Oh, it's the pride, whose mustache becomes SNM, to whom it is incri- The first circle is divided into parts, as ifl figure you see, and redo from the center through the di- They will give punda to the prodigal of the cattle on the sides of the mustache, to which they are perpendicular, And they will give Azyma a parallel dude between fe tha, the first of which, or in the corner where cunqueSNM, or in the midst of the sides of the river he can, as in Y, or V, it is the same. Let it be here first in the middle of the sides This was then described from the tip of the K phyl verfatilis YK quadrans OY, or feorfim de- The fcriptus is attached in such a way as to the center of the thread YK of the quadrant corresponds to the K of the apex of the phtyl; it happened a quadrant together with a verfatil phthylo. This foot rad, with the help of the coming tables innumerable hours, matis, as it has been done, by advancing the femper a quarter together with a verfatile fupra The azimuth, which the table of hours fpondentemindicar. In inventoAzimutho Almucantara pundas are wanted fubfi- I drew the son of God from the center of the quadrant, as before We taught him how to do it, and he would have a clock whether three different planes are inscribed in one co phthylo verfatili intrudum For if pri fma to fit in the proceedings, ftylum- that you are enveloped by the Azimuth of the Sun, monftra bit is in the planes of the prism trusting things. corolla f oroUarlmn I. From this it is clear: given any prism, to write down the said clocks in it, and the prism will be so much more irregular it had several sides. In tetrahedrispenta- tris, hexahedrons, heptahedrons, decahedrons, a circle of prisms with mustaches inscribed, at that in he will give the divided parts after extending li on the sides of the mouth of Punda, through which they are normal, and parallel to each other What will be the Azymuthas, in which Almu- cantarasinfcribes, affixed to the verfatili quadrant gnomon, as in the previous ones, and a thread from the center of the dudo in Azymuthisjuxta the table, the points of altitude Solar no and the corresponding hours: in the rest the same general operation must be used, do- Horolabifj L corresponds to the pole of the globe, and the whole world po the light of the globe touches it, that is, it becomes the axis of the globe
normal, &LB, or L A hardware sharks. ftyloBV, or BSglobi figures i. go ahead tis refpond to the south, the outline of the globe not remaining the same. So if this group together with the fuoorbe motionless pole of the ball exposed to the shining sun you were you'll see a femper three in the field um- I draw bright lines, the middle of which is on the outside He will reveal everything with gentle light before ftyliverfatil's extreme shadow mon- He was flying in the bright field. As indeed the whole glo the bus will be overshadowed, to cover another world you can be of any size; iterate will arouse greater admiration. Corollary I and you will not be able to finish. . (orrollary U Atet, too, in any shell the force given to the bodies is the same artifice of rare describcnds to be used. Problem To conflrue a wonderful sphere, in which no one indeed Jlylus, nevertheless all the estates through the light in the shadowy field of the clock Jlrentur We call this group angry because a few of his conflicts, too from those who wanted to be seen as mathematicians to be able to understand, and to change things pa Radoxa is alive. And indeed his drawing it is the same as the previous group The problem from which we deduced it; fty The game is different. And so you will make a flower. Let it be made of a harder material or even three fingers of skill the larger the size of the group, the greater it is (for the sharper he was, the more of which it will be more convenient) of which The cliameter becomes as large as the ftylus verfatilis Binisdenta-SBV figuraz i, Problema precedente. degrees, by which division the iron was accomplished a kind of fubtiliffima, whose workers of the same kind in with smaller and smaller things they use crushed exfiloferris: this I say, cast iron steps on the border or twice, or fi steps were smaller, fin You cut throats two degrees with that skill, like a sword you were burning the edge of the shuttle to bring the circle back the thing, and pretend all the irons in the equidistant figures of extreme circles: have two hours, and things in the group as shown in Figure demonstrates For this iron world you bring the globe so that the axis of the globe passes through the center the world also passes, that is, the center of the world From these he will suffer, become this iron world conoQRS figur pyramidiTVX figure, cylinder GHJKfiguraep. cube ABY ndefigdJs. prifinati, in which the aforementioned method the clocks have been brought down, the heart is in clay you will be impoverished by the pores; carry the motionless world all those things, which are of great importance, bra fua shows in the preceding, trina lu ce, he will demonstrate not with the end of surprise. We do not wish to extend the practice further here, when from the figures ipfispofitisfagaCem Ledo- all the matter of the intrusion was easily perceived excellent rum Corollary II, Indeed, you would like a movable iron orb; one crene was assigned to the hours of worship it will suffocate: for this creme of the Sun you are overturned by the dumb reda, oftehdqt extremity those things of light, things requested. From which also wonders they repulse, that I am supported, lest the multitude in let us be confused, let us doubt our findings. Corollary IU C instead of a square iron orb pirferred afterem; or trigonum, or quorumcun- aiscujuf-, that you fasten on the sides of the comb a quarter of the sea with clay rims, feu'Jefi. you grow, in that way, as the sides of a quadrant grow nay, but the center of it is crenate at the extremity let it rest; then you work next to the table Almucantaro-azymuthicam; some wonder fpedacula in hourly lines, parallel you will see the rum of the Sun procreating; so that this art I draw the given lines in any shape may it be permitted to complain, and so many divers as many azimuths But to hint at the myth he is only alive, so that he can heal his wounds tery about which to exercise the power of it is done, let us leave it. However, prepare some the digrams of the horary lines in the soul We add the figures of the transmuted ones A a'a' resimi Artis magna Book Proteus let's look at things that are impossible. See figure z in which kind of epitome all things are presented at a single glance; biorbi ferratili ftatua impofita hours de-
monflrat, but the sun AB rays through the crenas il- lipfiiti fphsra CD, cylinder EF, cube KI they would show the same hours. Problem The problem of the gnomonic paradox, omni bus Mathematicis Hcr ologios propofitum
T T the appearance of the end of the lines, in confusion fa of infinite fuperficies, divers a conglomeration of haphazard bodies, tificion to crush, so that the hours are still fruitful I will surely abhor the doctrine, and exade de he will poflic to monflrare, a cloud, but in no place inflatable: a certain thing it is, and from me to look into it with no end of stupidity The practice is not restricted. Problem X Given to any fimulacro, in it, infirumtnto a barrage, all kinds of hours to be borne to drink It is placed on a noftrotiretic intrument fuprafo traditionally, any irregularity the amount of the bodies of the rium, and of any matter rum fimulacra, cujufmodi v. g. fitfequens breathed phyphlema; and the tips of the lashes AB instead of the flywheels hours in the fubjedo plane orbis VX demonftratium: teeth indeed in through teething; prominent in the odogon orbi fubjedo, then the tips, fettelati body ris GO, DE, FH, IK, LM inoppofids they will show the hours of the plane. But yes You will bring them down with many tricks. If you want given the body of the horological chart neatink intrumenti obfervatorii, prototype ho to the clock, it is also suitable for a fuo place, as in It is almost as old as the previous ones. Then turn the dial together with the proto-clock cypo, those clothed, as if while the fly punda touches in the tropics, in the same way At the end of the season, the ends of the shadows, which the tips of the ftellate body AB, G, O, I, D, FyM, I, K, L, M, in plains fubjedis fa they are known; taking the numbers at the hour rum For if per pound of man-hours You will have hours to bring the reins of your genes what are you doing? and the hours of the lingulas in the conjunct curve of the tropical finds they will give the tropics in two plains: no feces must be accounted for on other levels. This same body is also geometrically de- you will strike through the practices in the preceding Pra- delivered to the gmatii. Corollary I From here it is produced, fattuas, and fimulacra from whatever material is? ifida, a similar system do not inferibipoffe, accepted as a tip ears, horns, tails, and others the edges of the parts of the image. Corollary II. VT Onefleullumlcorpus, or figure as well Irregular, in which method of anger rte inferi dido do not poflint sooner. True we thus all the curiofi ledoris induftria leaving to turn to another pen we are CHAPTER III. Of the portable forms of Vitrice, with the help of the shadows drawn both from the tables, and from the Verjarum altitunumfular by throwing hor olabis. NlO to the second hour the manner of delineating rum; no less than the preceding one it was different of the sun and the shadows both to redo and to turn the requested hp- a roll will be made, and there will be an infinite number of them almost variety, and population: some help inlaid jewels a certain um bra ftyli motionless vertical turns fu- ftinent; other things indeed, fed by that mover, And he fell asleep on the sun, and lied back: they were also asked if the light was in the shadowy field they mark the hours: yet all of them are from a height In the days of the sun, the reasons for the conflict were resolved they found Why do I know the reason? nis, d shadows in diversplanes treacherously. Betrayed, that sandwich of all here proposed he will not be able to ignore the difficult reasons. Ad So let's get to the point. The problem. XI. Horology to bring the informal quarter Pragmatism I To bring forth a quarter of the hour. QUoniam with almost all Gnomo-, ie9n, fmt the scribes of this quarter this is done in just a few of his words here we will indicate the collision, not the book Let us make up for things already done by others. Draw a quadrant ABC. in degrees rich in a plain table. Then intercapedine] CE, as two thirds as plu the rim of the entire side AC, infcri- beat the secret circle into twelve parts a divifus, and the clay of the divifus punda ab EC follows De Borqiabijs Portdtiiibus.
ECmqualitcr remote returns conjtinda feca- the sides of EC are piled up, through which from A cir
the ass of the dudes will give the Zodiac to that of Tignore in the order shown in fig. you see With these benefits: take a table of the heights of the Sun in competent hours, and per pound in height dinus folarium in three bows V qo perpendicularly from A through degrees of clay hours correponding in the limbo of the ex- hold, through the findings of the punda defcri- the bow shall be broken, and it shall be a quarter of the Horofcopus conflict I did not fecus Italian hours, Ba bylonikas, Planetarias per particular ta bulls are incribable: for the greedy is a precious gem the parallel of the Sun, and the light of the day the optra attached to the side AB, the gem of the hoi a branch See figure Iconifmi A map of the heights of the Sun behind the rising Dpmanus,
Pragmatics IL The second way is the end of the gem, folo perpen tell me Flat triangle ABC TceleS that form in which in i. the figure of Iconium You see. Divided fpacium EC f. on the whole ris in ii. as the first parts, and the second adba fim BC (which is divided into degrees, which it will be done, from the center through the steps of the clay drantis BC, extending perpendicularly in the muzzle degrees you have determined) will refer to parallel the parallel lines of the Tignore, marked by Vero parallel to the middle beams. In this therefore, the hours of incripfer are reduced by the help of the heights On the sun, as in the previous case, you will have ho- a small request, the hours of which show Here are the red lines. His flight is here by God after the side AB is fixed, light the wire in the common intersection of the hourly line, will show the parallel weight of the faithful gems at the end of the hour Pragmatism III. Write down the Italian hours in the quarter. TJ' Let ABC be the quadrant, as before the tropics, equally unfaithful; then take ta the height of the Solarium for hours Yes of the law, which you from the map of Almucantaro-a- zymuthica fol. prefaced excerpts: or Tite should be weary of this labor, ufutibieffe will be able to table m Probi. X. propofita Ex therefore, the hourly punda in the tropics equinoxes a quarter of the day, as you will note before, starting from the hour in retrograde order For if you lead the bow through the imaginary punda you will have the Italian hours at the quarter you Let us be brief, because the matter is almost we will deliver things Jpragmatia IV; Unherfated watch dove, MVd to portray the undressed. Efcriptus from B the center of the circle A TeWjl each of which is again divided into parts he becomes equal to the rich. Numbers from pound A, VerfiisH, &GP the greatest declination of the Sun AI, &ASP through which punda is parallel to the line AB Dukes IV, St. SM. That thou mayest have a light of breadth whether, in the pedo paftoral ABN dudis ex cen tro B, through the clay steps of the quadrant HA hidden lines, carefully noted, where dudx li lest they should fall into line; for through these parallel to HG day, they will make a paftoral foot in the fcalam la titudinum, which numbers in the order in which you will add to it. For the registration of the hours, proceed as follows give From the center B a circle is drawn in tercapedine BC, or BD; so that the circle con he dyes on both sides the line IV, &SM, which in You will divide the hours. In which two of the hour of clay followed by punds C, D will give you a remote return return it to you; fertile breadth of the body The lines of Columbine's hours were cut off, as if by force give refers middle line hour d. extremg Aaa hmm hour i z If you trust half an hour, divide descirculum in partestequaleS, proce then give it, that it may be a little ance and he rushed with his wishes. From the center B they are drawn in pundta M, leader of the line EN, EL, which will make Co N, inside the quodzo- A ray of light must be drawn, Enter this fpacium foot pafbraiis in the center E, tan- the more mobile, the more extreme it will be applied degree of the Sun for the demonstration of the hours. Let there be another Zodiac ray from B long, fixed PDR, you expand; the middle of which the ray of water becomes BD, the rest of the wood radii were deduced by the method, in Prseex- book of encouragement fol. delivered When this is done, curfor mobilisfilo will be made and the intruding gem, which is so pale on the foot be brought Of Horolabii feortatibus. Inferred, as to the degree of latitude of propofi- then, at the will of the engineer, he was able to roll; and I would have an intrument prepared. ZJfus Organi. TXploring the hour of the day, turn pe- while pole B is attached so as to extremity its E in the Radiant Zodiac LN degree li the tree that the sun touches. To this end; for move the curforem with a protruding tooth the fourth degree of breadth in the foot, but the son the fourth gem of the Sun's degree in the Zodiac RP; then by tilting the organ dioptra X Y cover Sun j until the radius is both holes mini X Y, which; in the organ no head, the tail of a dove; they report, let him repound, the gem will show what time it is. This with the same organ you will have a rise and a fall On the sun, let your body hang freely, so that it becomes parallel to the time lines; for an hour which he restores in limbo, he will give the hour of the rising, 8t occafus The unknown height of the pole of any place you will have, be at the first hour you should know: for I have been abroad for so long a time You may advance the peduncle from one side to the other, until it buds the unknown pole demonstrated the prophesied hour, degrees, ViallT' which the curfor will show, will give height the latitude of the five poles of the region It should be noted, however, that the eurforum is preferable to a figno be moved near the tropics, by one or the other to be promoted to a higher degree; fic abf without any significant error at the time of the trust you will prevail. The reason for this is that the feet in inclined a little from the parallel fcala; la let him withdraw his trepidation; who tarnished almost exceeds the degree. In this way logifmum once happened OrontiusFinteus. de where you can see the details of the clocks. Pragmatism V. To bring the ancient hours to the quarter, Flat quadrant ABC, as shown in figure p ret, in which the ancient; an hour; inferring fint: to work thus. Let the border of the BMC be a broad blade, like the Zodiac in the same month by saying that he is infernal; with which AC or AB is the product of the side of the quadrant infinity, the arc of the quadrant BC is divided into equal parts, which are hidden from the center A determined by the lines. Then the lingulas li you will divide the hidden neas into two, and to the points the normal commanders of the divisions, which where li they will make AC, or AC, centers there they will leave, from which through A the center which the drant bow will give unequal hours the benefits Thus you will make the zodiac. God rent from B, verfus C in the limb of the quadrant, the south of many trees; sun height the vfus nes, through which you have drawn the branches from the center, di- they will strike the zodiac, as you see. pof the so-called Zodiac also became within the latitude a movable rim, for this induftriA Accom easily to any of the heights of the pole The Ufus clock is here to be modari pofteti. Be the light of the gem was cast from the center of A the fourth degree of the Sun in the Zodiac is drawn; but the gem of the line is the hour; Ina; quali, this is ii. aftronorhic, five meridianxprgfeise ad be moved; let the sun's ray pass through the pine tree let in the nacidia, and the gem will show an unequal hour obtained; Pragmatism h ln the vertical plane to convey the clocks. "The square whose side AB in iz. he becomes a rich man in equal parts, whose the pun&ata lines are parallel to the middle of the pegs they will demonstrate Then from the parallel it, qb BD are the extreme lines of the square by piendus, all pundti will be depicted in iiS of hours, according to the order in the table of height whether the Solarium of the hungry with the help of the quadrant TV Then all the hours were put in parallel xt, or Q. on both sides fic de caute rice; Having determined the points in this manner, fin-. Q. the gluttony of those hours punished by the lines of cur- You will join, and you will have a perfect schedule so Utaiitempunda more conveniently deter threats divide the STV quadrant into parts attach the light of the sideTD, whose side TS quan the titrate of the phytyl, and the line from Sin on the side BD' they denote the solar rays. If, therefore, punito T, in line TD intercepted fpaciA of the shadows of the phylum AC in the parallels of the Sun, jux If you transfer this map, you will finally get it with yours, put a line on a mobile phone AB normally in fine, feu degree paral leli SoliS: For if they go to the square together ftylo, until the shadow is parallel to the Sun let him fall, turn him, he will give you the extremity of it
the hour had come: and the shadows faded turn If, however, through the same plate, the fub ho You would like to show yourself the horizontal fit hours, instead the said drawing with the help of height um you will accomplish the brave things; draw the sides AC, BD for the lines 'p, me and the diam of the line NM for the line aS, then of the proceedings, as before, and would have when the hours in the horizontal plane ftrans It is true that this is done with the greatest ease, for them I will by no means stay. Pragmatism VII. llorologiUm detinear in the handle of the knife from AB the handle of the knife, as in the figure on it appears; whose forgery was first in pia- whether you will throw them through the parts they represent in figure p four parallelograms; indeed CDHI for V ir ss QL; DEIK for what trp. If, therefore, in the parallel lines, Aa a through Artis magna Book Part II of the protein by a movable quadrant from the height of the table the sun of the Solarium, of the autumnal summers in the lines appropriated by Ungulis if you have fixed it, you will have punda, by whom why go line duds will give you a quality watch then So if I watch this paper you have wrapped around the handle of the knife, or him dem juxta standard of this plane lingulas li deny De Horolabiis Vortatilihus.
you shall be cut off; you will have a knife, whose ma The hours of the clouds will show: Itylus will be mo bilious from side to side, according to the motion of the Sun, from tree to tree, length RS; so le V n ss passing through, Itylus is nailed in It is placed in the center of the mass of the side DT, fic de ca: teris, as the figure teaches. Vfu6. f nfixed to a wooden board, or even by hand let it be held with a sword, in the line of battle, with this garment, as the handle becomes normal to the horizon; um I fixed the arm of Ityl in the place of Sol, in the lines CH, DI, EK, FL, GM parallel, in the sun's shadow ma He will show the unfaithful hours to the bridegroom; Pragmatics YIII. Describing the same in the concave quadrant. "The quarter of the leaf is excavated, which figure i. you see, the form of which the width becomes CD, in whose quadrantal fuperficfe CD, EF, first they are led iz. line: tequidiftantes, which: let them report the parallels of the Sun, and the means of fi I know that it will be so. The diameter of the CD a circle was written in iz. rich in parts, in with which two of the pundas are attached to each other C, D removed by straight lines, they will produce ere the line CD where it will go, through which to the sides CE, DF parallel: they will give parallel lines some people Then he hesitated: parallel fans tranfverfse in imaginary steps, parallel they will turn to the righteous. If, therefore, in this Drantali fuperficie from the table of heights Solarium, and at the same hour fpedant you will be punished by the lines, you will have a horrible fcopium inferred from the concave quadrant, as figure i. offended. Because it is difficult to complete the concave drawing; God I will give a quarterly report, which sheet format. we have taught, first I will die to throw it on the plane, and to outline it in fine you will be able to return to the quadrant, so that you have the requested clock, in which AB Itylum get for be a quarter, so you expose to the Sun, so that the shadow of Ityl AB is transferred in the hollow will give parallel lines of degrees of height you have a common umbral line, and parallels The slaughter of the sun, indeed, had been quiet for an hour the shadow in the hollow limb the height of which that the Sun femper inexorably demonstrates bit Problem The same defcrtbere in-plane with an immovable pen horizontal, vertical, hourly lines in va rias images of opposite figures. Pragmatics JL Defiudtkem Uorologiam defcribere. C' Here is a circle of any size in ii. divided into equal parts, as in the figure He teaches, and the lines are drawn from the center: they will refer lines of wood. I will do this from the tab you pass through the shadows of the heights of the Solarium from the center N in the line T all the hours: you will determine Then the same jpunda exN in parallel V, then the same in parallel read n, and make of the castle: for it was made by means of clay draw the curves of the same lines ris, they will be: lines in the form of teftudinum contradas, which had to be done. To tem more easily punda in the lines of the trees deT borders, first a certain length of Ityl aflumes, cujufmodifit for example CA, ex
whose apex divides the quadrant into you will bring the living, for from the center of it C re- dxprotrads: they will give in line ABfcal, applied parallel, or a circle across wide, the points of the hours in the said parallels de- will end Of this intrumemi efl. teflud m He was about to learn the hour of the sunset of the sun tem orb from the opposite degree of the Sun, and Ityli the end in the line of the pin, in which the Sun acts Exiftit, it will be at the appointed hour. To become When the sun was in the 1st degree, the world went out. degree qofuffpenfum, so you turn against the Sun, as Itylus ki let the reda fall parallel to it, and you will have where: it becomes um. Thus the animal of the earth He will earn the honors of the Celiacs, the Copper Zodiac to other animals, trained I will take her seriously. in particular the condition, that is the horizon, which I can slowly shave off You would like to restore life; bring it down to the plane ho? . horizontally the shadows of the heights of the Solarium, you will return, and I will trust that you will prevail. For she face the Sun in such a way that Itylus is parallel to So the case which he will bring on that day shall fall, and shadow: will show the last qusefito. With this induftria hourly lines in Apum, Ara the figure of the children, and of the little animals you will bring (farmer I. IUI Inc is clear: fi parallel tequafem jiabue-. rint division, lines also hour rias should be covered with firnilemforma. If true unequal, also different forms, &diff carried so much greater, as parallel the inequality was greater. It is clear that which is fertile, the order of the trees of the Zodiac not neceftario fervandum, fedpro to be transferred to the shape of animals, as the shadow of the soul is shorter or longer it was necessary to form it: fed all these in- duftria: I leave curiofi ledoris: infinite for the multitude of inventions, variously tate, which he meets in this place, further for the earth Arti mavm Book VI Frothei Part II to bear neither the time, nor the quantity of the book. For the reader did not make a fuss about me This business is in the interest of the elders. whether he will extend the matter. Pragmatism II. I just spent hours on a portable disk. fcrihere Photo Gallery From this it is clear how one and the same fty- the game in the cylindrical wafe on both sides I will return the shade, and I will turn, I will determine the hours the nare is swollen. Qorollarium III O ride well, how the hours in the cy- hndro painted vertical foiita, in ta flat bells fixed in the middle, or to the sides they will be able to be carried away while remaining; a parallel figniillius, in which the ftylus is confirmed, get a proportional line, hence ho the punishments of the rare ones should be transferred: then for pa- 'mllofus rallelo to the neighbor also proportional, in some papers it only lacks from the center of the quadrant punisde- tlS; as much as the apex of the phyle from the same parallel bow next, and it will be AF, or the length of the thread in ftguraj the line F, and the line EA E, and that with a great saving of waste. For he will do, as the difthance of the hours in the paral read laxiores fint, confequenterexa- the hours are indicated. i N any leafy plate, flattened the circle AB CD was referred to. Then of another interior whose half- tcr FE is divided into equal parts; of which priorpartsFH; perH also given in a circle divide whether or not the semicircle ADC, BCin equal parts. x From G I in quadrant CB I should be numbered among the squires of the forgers the great heights, and the numbering of the borders are the reins drawn from the center E, which three They will threaten the Zodiac in K L as you see. From M, the interval MF, or MH be fe- divide the circle into equal parts ftribues, for through the clay fiones fi hemicircles, which are opposed to GI end in part of the diameter, you will have the Zodiac carried away. Draw the time lines on this graph twice From the map of the three fignisss count the hours correcting them mere in the three lines of the pawns GSI, per for the clay will give three points drawn on the curve some schedule
G M G M G, MG M G M b m G M
You will make a list like this. IncentroEcujus be a rule of length and width if you like according to the zodiac, I say You will draw the difference between the lines of HMF, as vi
then give him a mobile phone to the snake You will adapt the returns to him in jufiftentemite, as the fupra was put in place of a running pin. If, then, you trust the hour of the day, vfus io-set the rule fupra degree of Sun in Zo- rohgii- Biaco KL, Sc mobile index fupra Zo- diacigradum rule; So with the intrumentum, see where the shadow indicates the mo bilis will make the parallels of the Sun in the hour for that punishes the hour of seeking as well. The table is thus made, a fubtrahe of clay the altitudes of the hours from the meridian altitude to them, and the rest, he will give the table requested. Pragmatism III. Another kind of quarter, all the hours ge to bear the brunt of the demons [Ifce another kind of quatrain in a quatrain then we put the difpofit to the general and to all kinds of hours given Radiant zodiac EGH fcala, lat- of the regions. AC, IK. And so the deli the denial of this is done. Fe was brought from E punished a small circle divided into two quadrants, ex E through both quadrants to the lines AC, IK are hidden, they will be made the said line in the fcalim area of latitude whether, as the figure teaches. And the zodiac the radius will be determined by the lines EG, GH, EFfper min. duets, and others manifest lines, at the ends of which perpendicular to the foot of the figure CD du thus they will give the hours from noon and midnight a little below which the hours from sunrise I fell asleep Lines of signs in the Zodiac diofo you will have, fi given from E interval XE semicircle divided into equal parts you will strike, for by being punished equally removed from X given the lines EG and EH Ipacia's daughter-in-law was killed. Be on the other side GC divided into parts, by clay ad GH you will draw parallels; you will have Italian hours, Baby De Horolais Vonauibm. Babylonia, fi beginning with E, commu nia punfta interfteftions horariar li nearum from the south, and the middle of the night, and parallel I forgot the curved lines of the leather transfers which you have joined in opposite parts: these then they will give Rete a schedule in which punfta- the three lines refer to the planetary hours, and so you will have a proper quadrant, whose ufuseftifte Receive a bracelet when through a pendulous gemmafua intruftum, which in You attach it; but the bending of the apex; prepare and the fupralocus of the Sun in the irradiated Zodiac, and the jewel of the fourth degree of elevation li; for let this be the ray of the Sun for a day through A, of the uncircumcised, the gem in Network fever hours. See figure He will teach you everything better than I, either I would have explained it in many words. Problem The artifical cylinder defcribereuota ho He sweeps the demonstrative everywhere. icouifmuf-rf Let two cylinders A, B, of which the concave, hifolid; so, however, here cylinder A loaded for Machinator's ar it is made of glass. In the cylinder A defcri- the hours are spent in the cylindrical fuperficia in the pla have you thrown it before, just close it mnes Gnomoniftas ufitato. In the first month ra from D on both sides in a circle of degrees. ex in normal terms they should be taken into custody. Go rum from D on both sides grad. were counted two and if the refets deorfum is cut out with lines the entire fspace is included in two lines smoke This is one of the four so far by dividing the normal into equal parts: through which the leaders bow, within whose fspaces you inscribed the names of the places, as in i. the figure is clear in order. Then the rest of the circle divide the cylinder into equal parts you see: both of them have normal beards, ha draw the lines of the pawns, as figure shows. In this case, the size of the MF is given below even the points of the sun's height You will determine from the tables already attached: for by the determined of the same hours pun&a curve dudla; they will give hours: and it will be the side of the fcala of the heights of the Sun. defer iptis igiru difhi ratio horary lines in cy lindro extremum VMO, divide the circle cy lindri B in equal parts, du- times through it in the normal beard. Repeatedly any of these normal parts in di- Live, through them the leaders of the circles, and they will become the place Lamentations, in which: the numbers of the hours, ed by which the inscribed order is made here, so that
In the afternoon it is red, but in the afternoon it is red gro, or of another color fcript fint. Let them be true the spaces of the circles are equal to the spaces in the cylinder dri X AHK fuperficie for local not recorded You will also bring this to the end lindrum B with a hollow cylinder A, and would have cy finished trick His flight is here; Promo ftyloMN, fupra a parallel line cyiii of the sun, turn it so that the sun's shadow falls the four lines of the parallel of the Sun, and will give mum's shadow; a fevered hour. Find this one so, for example, it was the afternoon advance in the inner cylinder of the lower circle lo fcriptam, fupraloculamentum (ROMA) fixed, and at an early hour; through the crack AR promising to respond to the rest of the country The teeth will give hours to be sought all over the world. The matter is so easy, that there is nothing further needs an explanation. Otherwise, and much easier, ifi confiendiojluf It cylinder A BCDbafis of the former, let it go and the ring EF in equal parts di- alive, and innumerable as many hours gnitus: vero fuperficies cylindracea ABCD as you see, to which, as in the proceeding, the names of the regions were inferred. If therefore the hour of the Sun in ex the first cylinder fuperficia inventarp inannu lo horario I promote the fupra fpacium and finally the barn in the ring fpaciis region whether the things that happen will be considered in summary in the whole world and in each region I will fix my teeth for hours. This is true, Mr nia is still more easily concocted from fe- the following table; and the preceding cylinder drawing will boil. View the table below on the following leaf. Bbb Utuvn&lSt nppfa orttt; Noetumie U
1P io at aa a fJL IHfr. IW i go
fcVVVAVW-! XVX1 A r A M
(T a y io n Will he die? a itidiet ttdckee and martdie The hour? from noon and midnight c Q. jO) CJ
h (D D x AND s H S o S B?
r? Pro, O PJ p Z as O. .
j Camenecu SA oo vj Ov vA!
e—i Is 'O co o uk -KJ N j w gmxisi m i g S ISIS
o I'0 Osi raA. CN Jl, x
HI XIXjdGIN! ; i i i c
ra oo d j O J On j-A i h NI NI Ssi i cl d -rrrihi i iisi
Mr. L, era p P L-O rt P
I X I O I1 I w W I M [N I M J O 1VO EP g O t
x. Tabula Expanfa, by which every hour of every place is demwfiratm at a single glance. "Cities before noon. Afternoon. Jlrtismagm Book VL Proteus Part III. Explanation, using the Catholic Calendar. We have made the shape of the hours in the cylinder -'universal, with which any; at the time they belong to menfura, I dido come quickly they deny His nose is quichequie. First, then, the sun was shining on the vines For the Boreals, this is from day zi. March, and so on to Z4. September, get to the finish line the second degree of height of the pole, which is defcri- there is no foot, it must be torn between the two small steps For any fspace in the next two steps to the rich intellect It is divided into three stages. Now the line is redo ab at that level the duda will inflame the adjunct
you at that height of the pole for the Boreal clays bus But the line answering to this in part the right is to be watered for the Auftralis that is from the day zq. In September, each adzi of March The beginning of the rurfus line to the end I was given a degree near the height of the pole tur figno ss: fequens pundus at the beginning &ol: in the beginning V And finally, the hunchbacked man of lines drawn from the heights of the poles rum, at the beginning Vd But the beginning li nes to the right near the height of the pole; efl: the beginning of the burden, princes principium Y. But any fpa the lines between the two pundas are to be understood divide it into degrees. Then, be from the place of the Sun in the line propofit Marking the height of the pole, draw a parallel line return the lela to someone from the left to the right exhaust what a parallel it will present to you the thin light instead of the sun I will quench my appetite; will indicate this parallel the greatness of the day, sunrise dcoccafus Sohs in Italian hours, &Babylo- as the number of the lines of the magnitude of di to him, and to the knots: the rising and the setting of the Sun are recorded Let them say VclCm %oiis. What happened from the hour of rising, doccafus of the size of the Sun in Italian and Babylonian hours (while days just don't smoke the same hour in the lines According to the height of the pole) redade- to be done, you will find in the bottom line the hours a noon, &medianode, hours of sunrise sunset cafus, in the hours of the Aftronomics, whose ufus even Germany, Gaul, and Hifpania. Ex full cup To the elevation of the pole gracL qualis almost efl Romse: fi ex grad. etc. two if you turn the case parallel to the right, you will find The sun is exifting in the beginning of the s greatness a day, hours, and a little more: at knots a little less: sunrise So issue in Italian hours, a little before o'clock; in But the Babylonians are a little hungry for occafu hor. And be from the hour of rising, you will find the sun rising a little earlier hour y p from the middle node; but to kill a little haram me I want to from noon And you will find hzc not in one place only, but in many according to the number of the rising, and falling, various in they represent the marked places. But the sun is expiring inprincipio n, velQ check date nerehorasfermeftqf. hoceft hor min. But the knot was about 9f. this hours min. Z4. Proceed in the same way let in the southern figs, and in any other Ievationepolis Thirdly, at the hour of iz. of the south, which infi- riiieiin Mum's side makes a bifurcation, redo the affences, wherever and to that parallel, which by height We have indeed said that the pole was to be led, and hence by a line which is parallel to the lines you return rhombuses ftrorfum, cut and reverse the table in an hour noon, and half knots in Italian hours, Living in the sun on the southern slopes. But on the other hand, if you cut off the fmiftrorfum, you cut it in the hour of noon, and half knots in the hours The Babylonians, the Sun Auftraiia occupy the pots you: right-handed at the hour of noon, and by means of knots in the same Babylonian hours, The Borealis sun passing through the clay; as long as You give me the hours of the day from sunrise and sunset I laughed, but not with the middle knot. . of the Word grace At the same height grad. 4Z. The sun Exiftente in the beginning, fiab hour iz. in dung of the side runs a little below the transfer line for ho- ra y. I doubt. For a little below this a parallel extension line by grad. etc. I doubt it. Therefore you will find it in vertice horam ferme noon, ramfere fi half knots in Italian hours: but you will find the right-hander hor. j. a little more, noon, &hor. h a bit wide us m edite knots in the Babylonian hours. The sun but at the beginning of the exiftente in qo, you will find fi- niftrorfum hour make noon, about hours half knots in the hours of Ba Bylonis: but you will find the right-hander ho- ram j. a little after noon, and an hour i. a little more doctor knots in hours Yes of the law Fourthly, you will find out in the same way, which Italian hour, or Babylonian, or unequaled refpond to any garden Aftronomica, fu- I am counting the hours from the middle node in the former me
lin ese in the lowest diet: but hours from noon in the latter half. If, of course, the data at the aftphonemic hour, rede, then do mftrorfum, or dextrorfum, as about the hour me I laughed, and we said in the middle of knots. But when then in the hours of the Aftronomic afternoon I want to return to the afcenfum, and both to the parallel by the degree of the Sun in the line of altitude of the pole doubt, he will not be able to proceed to the end or right-handed; to be taken in the afternoon economic data in the first half of the lowest li denial Of Horolabii (Portable. corefpon- neas, to be offered that carefully, that I mena teeth hour-hours from the rise, or occafu on the top table? Hmitdi-hnt nocturnae. Porrofinisafcenfusredliin- bylomca- will give a report at the same hour ram with in-between fspaces marked with thicker lines, ter- tqudtbm. inaraque jnfuprema, &infimalineatabu- Ix, or between the fpacia lines of the pundla-tis diftinfta, and terminated the interfuprema line am, pundlum the middle of the lowest line. Are the previous horaj uneven newspapers? pawn Irum Borealis, and nocturna Autralia: But the later newspapers of the Auftra lium, &nodlurna of the Boreals. What to do fcenfus returned from a given Aflronomic hour poft south, and parallel to the fupradidfa lam falls outside uneven hours, smoking there will also be a son's hour in the first half you bottom line An example In height dine pole grad With the sun exiflent in prin will you find out what time it is? dle refpondere the Italian hour almost, Babylonia a little more; an hour from not equal to nearly b Vicifiim from an hour Italian, or Babylonian, or unequal I knew you will find the Altronomic hour refpon- tooth, if you proceed in the opposite way, too rum or dextorfum, or finifirorfumab ho ra Italica, or Babylonia, and both to the didla a parallel line, then back again to be defeated He who had trusted more about this matter He destroys the Table of Theodosius Rubeus. Problem (this new method of Aflrolabia on the plane ho horizontally, vertically from the center defcrihi 'fiojjini "TNArte Magneticalib. par. mode we have delivered, by which every kind of circle lentes, so they are thrown into the plane, utacu magnetic, horte and others at lpe- the dlantia were perfectly monflrent. And it became mo tion meridiana fub Azymuthi Solari pla whether In this truth they will be shown, fi xa remaining meridian, gnomon from cen tro horizon normally eredlo. That since I have not yet been delivered by anyone, here briefly support the reason for the breakdown I thought I should try something in this big let us be seen as untrustworthy by art. Let him be tur horolabium Sciathericum Afironomi- with ABDC, according to the rules in Art Magne tic book Par. problem. in which line meridian EE, horizon In this clock hand magnetic hour demon it will fly, the plane of the sun will burn horizontal so long, until AE meridian, mostly Azymuthi Solari pla whether he was fubile, which will be done by the son of fubtiliffim a glass cover, and a foot of the same kind On the meridian plane I stretched out the shadow, the shadow for didfi's son while he breaks the sun, gives at the point of intersection parallel to the Sun the magnetic needle of the hour. What happened an hour at the end of the noon motion in the same you would trust the clock, so you will work: set it up there from the center are the gnomon figures of each ma of strength; for the shadow of this in the clock to the four parts of the world magnetically first fituato, that in putidfd, in which the parallel At sunset, he will demonstrate the requested hour. And so will it be fitted, as AE meridian? part On the other side, let FB look back at Borea; that with the first to be noted. Hacarte all the first mobile dodlrina in the magnetic art delivered with almost no business in the late hour lip, folo gnomon normally inherited, de- you write corollary O of these it is clear that I became a man of clay at the rum genera, in particular phylthema- tis concentric, that elt from the same center de- he would outline the scribes, he is one who dem, fed multiple, difcretum confu- 'fum', becomes about to have, in which one and the same gno mon in divergent yet concentric spaces, to demonstrate diversities: that the matter of St
be hidden, and behold the pleasure of miraih it seems to me: whence and this reason Magic? light shadow? match ch. about clocks I thought that the magnetics were inferred, where Leftor a curious way of trusting together with fi gura will find a perfedte tradition. It now reflects that any and all di- dfa are, let us understand which will happen, where the Catholic schedule, which in Iconium the fourth figure refers, expli we will be careful Bb b PROTEIN jirtismagm Book Ul. Proteus Part HI SCIATHERIC PROTEINS PART THREE. . THE GNOMONIC NUMBERS AND PHYSICS SIVE G N O M O N I C A Phyfico-aphtrological. Preface 'Er1TO when he will be seen, the umrah will be given, before the movement of the heavens, and he will be hidden When the fyderum effedtusv is said to have been washed away, it is said to demonstrate something, the husband's wife will make it almost vulgar. And whence we have infested ourselves with these foundations, striving for something more, in this work the demonjt ra we will try; nothing in the nature of the world, which indeed has any relation to time, which with the movement of Light and Umbm perpetually monfirannonpojfit, Why and this book, not incongruous with the Gnomon we have decided to call it phyfico-aflrological, since in it the circuit of phyfic things, periods are so joined that the shadows, the five motions of light, obtain the common measure of time, from both the motion of the heavens, and the generations of natural things dependent on this motion, inter alia rites, changes, fertility JierUity, qualities, virtues, a certain dexterity to be admired What happens to Gno- demonflret. Whence this Gnonionicaphyfico-aphirologica, nothing other than Jcientia, which Gnomo- with the help of momcitphy, all those things that have a certain connection with the movement of heaven, are demonfired center As we dilhncle and clearly propose, it is done CHAPTER I On the gnomonic year and its parts. Iconium XIV. Gnomonic NNUM! we say nothing else to you how peaceful, that the shadow of a gnomon somewhere right from the southern pint tropical or qo for the same The pundfum was rolled up city That same fpacium iMiyoiMv, five fo- we also call the goal of laris curfus. Enter for this is the constant sun of the tropics movement, the gene of all fublunary things it moves, promotes, and ultimately perfection moves. Enter this space he arranges the seasons of the four years, fingulisfua distributing to the converging world appropriate services. Enter all this Ipatium I am so afraid of the world that I am afraid of it scuttles, as no mighty nation trusts to the oar there is no region so cut off from the light, which; he will not share any portion of the light. stlis mhi- Within this fpatia degrees of heat to each one He distributes the power in the region as appropriate. Enter this million when a(flea fua the Moon, and all other natures of the planets, of growth, of cremento, life, and death uniufcujuf- that decides. Enter this fspace of pawns JbiAi&ulgitr, whom they call the Zodiac, vo the mud in the twelve palaces divers Nature; ar He spreads the material, from which of all, which: they are in the universe, it depends on the convervation. It is true that the zodiac of the whole family has been given the curfew becomes the foundation of his molds here is the detailed anatomy of the mouse, as the nature, property, and effect of the better known to the bridegroom. Therefore the entire Aftronomia; foundation then there is the Zodiac, which in this context The old ones placed the fphsera. Since they would offer the Sun perpetually, Secoiidanti to be moved by it, the planets also from eodemnon nifi fex steps from the middle ejuf- to withdraw the fub in the same manner I beg the vagabonds; him inftar fafciseiz degrees of longitude, at which the planet ends they hinted at rum, expreffium, oblique fit in thrice they poured out the tropics; interfere with any oblique fit cans, obliquely producing angles, or tus, occafus perpetual incon- the time, the days and nights too it will generate fidelity and diversity. In this also the sun four times of the year in a wonderful or dine
Dine dazzled by Spring, winds, Autumn, Winter; and thus in clay twelve Tig
like diverticulitis It produces different effects in the year. It should be noted, however, in this place, which the Sun presides over in the trees of the Zodiac, not by day fire, no I will indeed become universal to the whole world ns, qunub jequmoctiaufunt, four years time Artis magm Liber times have a different faith, and we; for them Sun Y tranfeunt, according to some con- the house is warmed, when spring begins for us, and autumn; and I obtained a tropical sun ed in the winter, when you eat for us, so that spring or autumn does not properly occur to them, fed as When the sun recedes farthest from the equator, use and for us the winter, let it be eaten by them: to say the snow in due time I would give them food and so on he went to Saint-Bever, and autumn each to seasoned winter, fic about other parallel figures. That is to be present without any prejudgment Cufco, and Quito, in the provinces of Peru, about equinodias put on the med fua, which they call time when they have calmed down; but the rest the cold season, they call it winter: but for no reason the winter was cruel it may be said; It was really hot for them at that time ris quad so much ed, as much as in sedate them ha to the citizens, who46 or raise the degrees They have the poles, while the Sun is the sun the horizon of degrees in the foldition of the building ediiselevatior, also, I have no doubt ca lorem the Sun in seasoned equinoctials the people would be a little weaker because of the knots, the days are perpetually following; forget but who a little because the days are longer I intend And hence the Gnomonic no- draphydcoadrologica said inhabitants He could not compete with any reason, because he did not that Antiaecis noltris, dve Boreale hemi- to the peoples who hold the throne: indeed Sun audraliadgnapermeante, us pro- the shaft was divergent and diametrically opposed at the same time Rum is published in difpodtion. Therefore, the temperature of the sun ratse the inhabitants of Zonsc, and the oblique horizon to the inhabitants of the city I went to them there you will build it: now to explain let us turn the pen to the resources of knowledge. Ed therefore the gnomonic Zodiac nothing liud, how fpacius of the tropics con- cluffum, about which in the preceding dtum ed; which in the year fpace to the motion of So The shadow of the gnome near it steals away Manilian: Sednitet gentiftellatus b ait hey orbe, He makes the world dignified by veiled light: Here Phoebus, always burning, directs the reins, Delia's chariot is enough for the Sun to wander, And I will address five luclantiajydera to the world They perform various natural dances. This is like a home in twelve pegs some of the eyelashes are drawn in curved lines so didin- we drive, to touch the right side tive, the left of the defending pawns con- JffiS-tineat manfiunculas. Within this fspace where- gnostic that nature, quality, and unity We order those who are competent to each of them, Vl. dlrothei Part III, as the shadow of the dyli dngulisfere days, tempo ris given and condition fub this hour zonte Romano will tell As all these things are true let them be done by the greater method, first within this one Zodiac feu fpacius hemerolo We have also ordered a day in which the Sun through now a shadow of the vivacity of the petua movement approaching the top, now from the same declining, the feast of the whole year, that fertile twelve menfies of the order he will demonstrate Problem In Scidtheric aflronomic Hemerologium To spread Ecclefiafticus so, as the shadow of a gnome nis, in addition to the entire first mobile dodrina, even Sanllor's jefla of the whole year fu occurrence Jtnguli menfis de monjlretfuper horizon Ro hand Let it be built at the first hour of Sciathericum zontal declination of all degrees the snow of the Sun, as in the Gnome's Geography nica odenfum ed; then see with which gra the beginnings of the twelve days of the sun let them weigh down, and decline the steps I have given let them have a theory: for it is a parallel decline of the nation's foliar fcripferis, you will have a successful hemerology while the order of twelve True Let us explain the matter briefly with an example. Since therefore the faith of St. John the Baptist in Let it fall on the first day of June the degree at which the greatest declination of the Sun is degrees, minutes ed, inferibe-
remember the line of faith that I built in the tropics then So, with the faith of the Aflumtion Bea of Mary the Virgin in Enjoy the day fall, when the Sun will be the degree of Leo. Find the declination of this degree in ta bula propofita in the third book, than gra you will find two Therefore, parallel to this ap you will put the trust in the fpacio ption of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Then be a little craf- You carried more lines than the others, Vrimimh they will give you the hyperbolas of the pawns iz. If its also in the regions of this Zodiac in this? ufum given by the degrees of foliage Declinations, crupfucula knots, and days amount, rise, and setting of the Sun, af- Make the ends, and the diagonals, the sizes orients, &occiduasuna with qualities You have ordered the bonds and properties; you will have Sciatheric adronomic He- a morological achievement, of any kind here we put it before your eyes. Zte Horolabtts Portatilihus. An explanation of the Hemerobgki-ajlronomic clock.
SCiathericum, which is here for you in form We present the Imperial Eagle, ten He fuses the spaces with which the whole of the first mob We have included the Doflrine issue. The first the edge contains i2. Menfesco steps the declination of the Sun. According to fspace circular fella Saints clay men correponding to fibus The third step Sunday menfium correponden you The fourth of the Zodiac is associated with quality according to those suitable to each one. Why? it also contains crepusculars. The sixth quantity the state of the days, and of the days. The seventh or then, and the sunset of the Sun. A wide variety eastward and westward. Ninth Afcen twists and turns I give a tenth Mouse Planets This expresses the the wood of the Imperial Eagle, whose feet are bi the head of the head is inferred from the mica on the right of the south; from the border but the afternoon hours show when with this inscription: A meridie, media noSie. In the claws of the feet there are two other feet we have ordered, one of which is the Babylonian he demonstrated the other Italian hours with this registration Ah rose and fell. So this fciathericum on a horizontal plane then, and next to each other, the plagues of the world yours, the shadow of the flyli, perfeft all that was said will demonstrate The whole of the Siatheric We have caught the fceverfs. Who loves the various labors of the Sun and the Moon. Let him see what the cycles of the shadow have been. The signs of the day, menfes, the setting of this Sun, and the rising Sh(oxfit, how many days, how many dawns teaches. Let them be read as much as the sun recedes in the middle from the globe At the time when any fideras, when they fall. Here are the ideas of the media, media menfura of the day SSQrnen from the aftronomies what he holds, the hour is Jchaquas once, and the ancients to teach Magijbri, Hafce was the hours indicated by the shadow cycle. The hours which Babylon counts from the rising of the sun. These things the Terra Latina teaches from the beginning. Cunila Jquila Aujlriadu hacvajb ruling in the world Light-shadows mark the mythical feet in the field. Luilrata igitur Perioche Siatherici no- morifque competente caufas of the Hemerologici, nothing reflects, as if it were a mouse. and he made twelve clay pots Vn&evts do- Decamore quickly ylrttsmagm Book VL Proteus Part III. Difquifitio I. Phyfic. On the influx of signs. TNtra fpacis we need twelve deputational petitioners, which then the curious reader will find the letters which are unique to Fynopf we place before his eyes, I will give, which qualities of clay Table of quality standards. Nature of Signs. flowers Elements. Warm and sticky. Cholera. Fire Cold and wet. Melancholy. Earth
Calidutn, 8c humidum. Blood air
Cold and damp. Phlegm. Water
Warm and sticky. Cholera. Fire
Cold and wet. Melancholy. Earth
TL Hot and humid. Blood air
Cold and damp. Phlegm. Water
Warm, warm. Cholera. Fire Cold and wet. Melancholy. Earth Hot and humid. Blood air Cold and damp. Phlegm. Water It is therefore first asked, whether wood or really really heretofore with the qualities of pol let them lean, or you want in ipfis dodecamorii fpacii
something of this kind is put in, is it so? on the other hand, feu ftellis, with which the figna con are they blowing? At least if the allerifms of the pawns dtas properties inelfe of all Aftrolo the gore is fentencia, eftqueaded Aftrolo- gis lixas, that you have denied the whole Aftro- you seem to turn the lodge: for now all of the triplicity of trigons, of cecodefpo- of the planets, of the ascendants, with the effects of fcoporum, the skill is like fun it depends on the damnation. Hence the revolutions, con- conjunctions of the planets from the watery trine into the fiery, cujufmodi cfl inQ. T the greatest in the world, to use religions, im of experts Rerumpub changes; otherwise those metamorphoses of the kin of things, which to the ship they insist, to bring it boldly they bring. Hence the largest of the planets with the trees of the Zodiac, in which they are found tur, familiarity: for in the present some of them are strengthened, by which of them the forces become hotter and more powerful. Id And the Altrologus of those various blasts offering different types of di- bring back those lost by your appeals wear, whatever kind of house they are, height, trigonus, terriiinus, carpentum, perfona, joy, of which I will say something to the molds while it is House of Planets jpRimo: That place where the virtue of the planet j finding qualities friendly to the heart, benefic case, cas, to bring them back more effectually more fit, stronger, stronger, and with virtue fl or exiftit, his house is called: whence because Leo the wood of mafculin, hot, and fic- since it is most fitting for nature to be bred, I do the mouse of the sun is called nocturnus, and female cousin, Lu nae house is assigned. n 8c trp Monday Sunday next door smaller figna, Mercury, who by reason of Lu Nay, it is nearer, and by reason of conjunction never approaches more than degrees from the Sun, are aligned V both fecund, from the Sun of the Moon which houses the third house of Venus, which ra not by the greatest conjunction with the Sun diftatplus steps, a third it just takes place, and is third from the Moon the planet, fertile with smoke, accommodates there names Gnomonic Tbyftco-afirologica. even in those in which he cannot do his own work jupiter in the glass he is exalted, he is humbled, because in that T cafm the deed stirs up the north winds, of whom he was the parent. t? Mars has the opposite way of exaltation let it be in and depreflion in that for the son-in-law, as much as possible, too many it moderates the heats of that: but the removal it is smoked from the vertical. Venus moist in the wood of Pifcium, where Most of the water is found, it is exalted; in itp is down. h Finally is exalted, in V it is depressed there because of the opposition of these twelve the qualities Of Trigoni V Tft when much bile abounds, ab- and also have a certain power to injure They arrived home on Tuesday. X all more fruitful Jovi limi the most friendly nose, and the second most beautiful they drink for these trigonal radiation fe the mother of purity, the lamp of the house they are and your soft, and cold, lights and the house facing the river, complete with Saturn they are the most distant and coldest of all. The house, however, was attacked this time, by destruction, by fire they are called the thirds of the planets: hence the Sun they say the destruction of the Aquarium: Luna, Capri the horn; Saturn, Leo, Cancer; ce fic about the rest, as the file came across. On the exaltation (of the planets. Q Ecundo Exaltation of the planet by Aftrologists That place is called in the Zodiac, where clearly he may have his own larger house courage; which they know in three ways; First, from the progress of the planet to the clay of nature of that, and more consistent with its effects: Secondly from a place in which he wants a union with So The strength of the fuas offends more: Thirdly, from in which he will be able to produce more fitly and more easily wax Therefore the exaltation of the Sun is fig whether V, the preface of Libra, because from Vpro He goes to the semicircular borea of things more appropriate to the generation; from Libra to auftralem. generationi in the left hemisphere rio the enemy: the Moon is exalted in V, in Scor the pion is depressed because of the conjunction of the fada with the Sun in the 5th, it progresses to the where He will have the greatest strength; fada vero con
conjunction in Scorpio proceeds the verfus Sa gittarium, made in Libra verfus Scorpio Thirdly: let the trine be trusted. Eft aii- the trine rulership of the planet from di coming from the strength of the house, exaltation. For it is true that the trigons are made of clay ture diverge, yet for the girdle, and the beam, they are bound together by friendship, especially when ab# They are governed by these planets. But they are the four pawns of the triangle, as it were while in the preceding it is oftenfum. Fiery fignis V np'jo: Aereus ex xt xO=ae: ; water finally, it is made up of X On fire are dominated by o because funtmafculi, of the day, as ipfa figna. Tereo S do they threaten, and fear the winds from the other side, and fubfoiano mixed; They are deputed by air Sc because of the Boreo-Fubfolan winds, which fat Watery Mars is presided over, on whose day Venus At night the moon is joined. All these An- They are the opposite of the two we know. Fourth They are still in the same family certain degrees, in which the planet is exiting it is stronger and more effective: those degrees from ITgyptiisfuert didi borders. Itafpacium Termini from the first degree of Yufque to the end of the fence turterminusJovis; from the 6th to the of Friday; a ix. to Q of Mercury; fee to Mar you from at h of Saturday; fic by two I will proceed with twelve steps I give Fifth. Carpentum, that place Planetx' Carpentum in the zodiac of any one, in which he exists has several positions combined: it is said that carpentum, which inftar the great King or use the company's friendly strings He triumphed over honor and riches. Sixth. Called by the Arabs the P. erfona Planeta Almugia, then it is, when he in the same manner Cc refpi Art magm Book VI. IU is part of the protein.
He reflected the Sun, I saw the Moon, to whom I gave him a mouse to the house of the Sun or the Moon; so as to So the moon becomes the western one, and the moon becomes the eastern one. The seventh is called the Joy of the Planets, One planet rests in a strange house united by friendship, fortune, and goodness of the planets existing there; then for he rejoices in their goodness, goodness, which is found there as a partner. You see, then, that I will indeed be in a hurry effeted by the ancients, yet not from thence I wish to preserve any knowledge of the world: it appears clearly, the ancient Antipodes no profundity verf$ of horizons of conftitution, habuiffe; the same wood everywhere intmitHda. Qffedtum praftlare arbitratos fuiffe: in quo they are most hallucinated; and thus Aftro do not store the loggia for a certain horizon tur, no profus elTe obtendo. For if dodecamonas of such and such wood imbued with the qualities of excellence everywhere they will produce the same effect; Fed experience this day teaches the Antipodes, An- tcecos noftros, use those who lub zona tor the inhabitants of the amphitheater laugh, try everything else ri. For the sign that we are warm, and Experience has taught him that he is a prodigy they find imbued with other qualities, vi- sweetly cool, damp; so the son-in-law hot, and violently suffocating bringing them, a violent cold will cover them, and and the house of the sun was finished by no means he may be able to fit them accordingly. Whence the houses in which our faiths are exalted they rejoice, they triumph; Ancient, Antipo destructions and losses are when hse dignities nature to amuliim fe- how much Whatsoever he objected to, of confection nul places in the Antipodes and Antatcof I wish to have a certain reason: that daily with sailings, as well as Euro- pasorumdftHs in places of residence ob- hot, fat and hot. In The province of Chile, which is in South America the matter is the province, the Mariauftrali contermina and to about a degree of latitude stretch out, almost cling to us, as P. Alphonfus Dualle from the same. Society noftraeprocurator Rome, while these I was born in the same place. and brought up, not that Aftronomia: the ignorant teftaturat; for Quaius all the effects of the Sun are actually contrary effects-in but in the other hemiphric, touching and that son-in-law in his country, which For us he brings intolerable things;
exotic goris, and intolerable caufam effe, nor fe ever, or of lions, or of dogs I would warm someone cold so enormously perantem notaiepotuiffe: E contra Aqua rium, which makes us extremely cold let us experience, for them, indeed, the coldness is intolerable fam: Thus Aries is the gate of the generation of things noftro hemifphgrio, to them the gate of destruction things are not undeservedly confounded. When nor the sun approaching the summit It accelerates the narratives and lives of things, from being turned away But the retreating destruction was destroyed that things are gradually planned; ipfa system do cet, the destruction of Aries' cousin to them but the generation, and the life of things to bring Underneath the scorching zone, what the mode of Peruvia, Brafilke. Sc Infula The Society of the Philippines I received it by word of mouth; so the diftras of the pawns the qualities are mixed together, as something moist smooth, cold becomes hot, hardly difficult to paint pofs Thus, the equinotftial vertical plane is fixed V complete the most moist and warm xion experience; tropical vero ftgnama- variety ef- to incline to falseness and coldness; fiBuamfuk the rest of the intermediate parts they are strengthened by the veil: whence from such a great they are also affected by exoticism moderated by effects: profusdi ftindfi From here plants, animals, ho the miner, and other things in the same place It is a profuse diverfaconfti they have nothing at hand to re- fpondeat For the truth of this see more abundantly traftatum in the art noftra Anacamptica iib If anyone, therefore, has a burning zone, or aftra-cenethiu- lihemifphaerium juxta aphtrological canons mZ" The fyftema conderetgenethliacum, it is certain that was nothing of their prowess, before Aftroiogi they promise, they will make it; Don't be in it that the nature of figs is the same, nor of houses and the rest of the positions of the planets He wants to make a coordination: and so he lig but with the powers of the planets, which in the same if they get the stakes, they would be ordered. ConjUttt- 'Dc Horoiab ji to the Bearers, It collides like a io signs fub temperate zone Boreal i T Warm and sticky. x V Cold and wet. n Hot and humid Cold and wet. Q. Warm and moist. np Cold and wet. Warm, while on the ground TJp Cold and moist. Warm and wet. w)o Cold, and wet. ss Warm, wet ix X Cold, damp Dom. Exalted plane tarum, plane Conftitution of Signs temperate zone Aftarli Dom. Exalted leveling tarum, plane
V Hot and humid.
V Cold and moist.
Cold and moist; n ff Hot and humid.
ix Cold and damp.
sS= Warm and humid.
Iff, cold, and wet.
Warm and moist.
f Cold and moist. ss. Warm and humid.
Constitutio Signorumfub scorched zone. J Constitutio Signorum fubpolo, fen zonafrigida. V Wet and hot. V Cold, St wet. n Warm and sticky. Warm and moist. . Cold and wet. Cold and damp. Warm and sticky. HP Warm, moist. Cold and wet. Cold, wet St. as warm, and sticky. X Hot and moist. V5 Warm and moist. 'd Cold, 8t moist. n Hot and humid. Warm and wet. Warm and moist. Hot, humid St. cold Sc ficcum. irp Cold and wet. Cold and wet. Cold wet. X Cold and moist. vtx Cold and moist. And now that you have eaten, let the noonday light shine It is clear that Aftrology is by no means uni- Verfalemefle, nor fub to trust the polfe themes genethliaca fub hot zone, or adjacent to it the places of conflict How much from the previous one but they are true, as they are, not the snows of an emotional mind the other theologian tries to contradict. Yes, when it becomes so varied with the slanting horizons I mean that it is also different in the tongues ture, and to such a degree that no subject is profuse then, and put the chicken in a safe place, not at all to be sure some horizon, or climate, when to then allrological business not from the light the falcon of Fyderus, and the various
difpolitione, fed from the infinite almost around it depends on the plasters, which vary in the clays almost horizons and natural places the confluence, and the coast of the mountains, of equal and the nature of the leaves, also of the parents natural inclination and difpofition; what the mode of fusion in the first chapter of the book often we give all of which, if they are not properly calculated, it could not be done, as the theme and the washing on each side should be done. Hence he would be laughed at, who was in the polar region The cold zone of the fire would not weigh anything about the fortune of Nati, or the rains, the change nor the seasons; with the same stroke, nor let him receive a rested division of houses, nor dodecamores of wood the same what kind of climate let them obtain, for pleasure With ringed Planets or Menfius Ipacio was always at the bottom of the horizon let them appear cold, or fub that they are established at an interval of time; surely with this manifestation, autabfconfione, eof he was affected by those whom we were in the zone of tempe We will ascribe, attribute, to you I should not say that he was a mere man; For who could not, I was of perpetual light the appearance, or the concealment, of many the other ephemeris to be found in parts, than some in the regions? For if in Eu the Ropaeans, the Aphiatics, and even the neighbors of the region bus, from such a natural confounding we find the difference, because of the leaves, terrte- that divergent shore of God's verfimode light laris, and the moon receiving the diffusion; at least so much greater diversity from per- under cover, or by apparition, or hidden tion, those people will be confused, how much fat which they inhabit, as well as natural the contiftution of the lands was more From which you have been duly trusted, we infer the theme ccelefte gnomonic, as exaftus it becomes, and boils with divinations, to one tan and the climate, the nature and quality of which lasts Ccc aaexpe rtis magna Book Proteus IPars but it is learned by experience, and by obsequiousness, that the pen is used to explain the natures of the Tignes effete But now let us turn to the relieds. CHAPTER II. Of the various effeteShs, which O twelve figncrum dodecctmoria running through they produce, of which the eleUionilus of things to be opportunely infused. OL, StLuna, as in in the first book it is clearly stated, they are the fublunary of things in moderation guardians and leaders, the end of which, nor generation nor should the life of the living be in any way shortened Qtiidjtteje- p0ifit. In order therefore to join together, in which time giu. r0 S"nbus, with which dodecamores of this kind pre- they cry Sciatheric to be organized here I led us in which the shadow of the fire, like a finger a certain time, in the time of the Eledians to show the time to be done. Eft au I destroy nothing else but the opportunity of the snow at a certain time, when the Sun and the Moon tafitum, difpofition in the Zodiac ha bent to become someone at the same time Medicine flourishes, or Agriculture flourishes tes experience teaching irrefutable, infal let them take a cup of tea. Yes indeed mo is governed by two principles, the nature of failure cet will; nature is fubjeda a bus but the will is free, and therefore effective dus, purely natural operations they obey the bus as if they were fruitful be made to this, and to other things that God has prepared, as it may be faintness, or weakness, long or short less life They are purely fanciful, and merely vo luntaria They go beyond their limits, to do this or that whether, or evil, veiled to both rentable There are other mixed ones to make the journey. which depends on the will of man, or not to do But whether the journey is convenient the future becomes, it depends on the faiths, and the air confection If any one, therefore, knows He would make an influx of faith into our body there is no doubt whether it is appropriate or inappropriate about the fortunate or unfortunate fate of the journey can be sure Be sure to be someone again He knew the influence of the fluids of the faithful drcaekSi- the appropriateness or inappropriateness of any field; onesrerum isTaud doubtfully treacherous crifin defalute, or spread over the dcpenltione; rgn to form a polTet. If anyone
once again a transaction with the Prince he was about to make an alteration, which he had done before a blow of faith would effect the Prince; it's fimi- liter probable judgment of fucceflu business will form True with this difficulty they can be done, hence the aphtrological elections information, for the most part, is based on experience it is false. Because, however, they were destroyed more reliable information in the agricultural business, medicine, and navigation, than in business they are strengthened by their heads; hence, next to ex Roman experiences only fit for the sky Sciatheric to organize this exiftimavi mouse Problem Sciathericum atrico-Georgico-. Econami- with the timely infusion of edlions I will give PJElingetur juxta quartj precepts of the book Iwpmm the traditional zodiac gnomonic hori- xv. zontal together with the declination of Agno rum you were so prodigious in your reasoning You will be resolved by hyperbole, as a pretentious figure teaches A figure of explanation, of course. A gnomonic odium in the ode altogether He is rich in peace. The first space contains clay: botomics, that is the time to make veins, and sending the appropriate mud: three times tium fpacium smoking medicines ap then he is offended: the fourth is assigned to the baths: fifth building, five manufacturing con- it contains the eleditions of fttuendarum: the sword hunting season: the last day of the year fire on the roof of the building gnat: finally, an ode to femininity, plan tation, infection, and other agriculture it is finished with the relevant works. In which Rum spoonfuls fpaciis elediones to be made in We have spoken of the threefold kind of letters: which rum prima B, finifies good, ideft-tem- Explanation pus is the most appropriate. Another lite-iconijmi n. ral, mediocrity, five indifference a certain period of time in the erasure bus smoking TertiliteraM, bad, making an inappropriate time to delete indicates the bus. If, therefore, the shadow of the moon some hemorrha has fallen into the fspace Gnomonic zodiac, oftendentintra the same fpacius letters of the eledians to be made opportunity, or inopportuneness. that shadow of the moon falling on the hedemorium fpacium Aries, literteejufdemfpaciil, B, mias, a good medicine also for smoking, in different baths, use fabric; hunting bus sniuswojj indeed, it was inappropriate; the trees very advantageous, to use agricultural works rae, feminization, and planting. I connected and the mouse Sciathericon in the form of Co while the branch of olives, which are the Armagentilia of Innocent X. Romanus To the Pontiff, while I was writing these things, The family of Lios was raised to the Pontificate. God Artis magrue Book Part of the protein IIS. The mythical dove, because the Sciathericon is at this time re-flooded in the rains Myflicus Zodiac our perpetual Lunsinconftantia, um brae adbaeclucif vicefice, soldier Ecelefia's breath is expressed as of which Columba Spiritumfanftum Ecclefi- the ara was drying; Mitra, in which fcia- there? Together we have mapped the climates of the world with keys, Vicar of Chrifli fucceffo- Peter's rem juxta epiphonemataadfcripta de note: the Orthodox Churches, on the other hand, have various in- I give some title to the flitutaallcgoricis tamus, so that through the bath, ptifmata Confirmation Anointing, ex the trembling Sacraments; by phlebotomy or ro the Sacrament of Penance, which overflows suffocating the spirit with delicious humors busfubduClis, the soul of the fanaticism fuae there; by the fumption of medicine fanClifii- mum of the Eucharist to the end lead the vainness of the body and the soul cens to be understood: the sacrament of order then by hunting and hunting Ju after that: I will make you men be known Finally, by planting, Marriage is understood. Zo Finally, denotes a condition. Further to this myth Pamphylia Dove dominates the sky bearing the olive tree, peace and tranquillity fymbolum: how to finally pofl the flood of the inundating evils, the mother of the Republic of Christ how much we shall experience, he alone, whose in
hearts are in the hands of kings, trust is a fire, but with the most ardent profusion of prayers it must be promised. Difquification II. Phyfica Ifa the nature and property of the signs Let us now see, whence comes such a ipfis a conflict of qualities should arise. Certainly for eil fpacia dedecamoria efle exfe, let nature be indifferent, and have none the hidden power which you say their qualities are striking; then into the Sun, the Moon that the coadjutor of all should be rejected it is But let us give the accounts of the Pinguis. Sol therefore, entering Aries, while radiofalu- the flow of threats is increasing, the strength is strong it smokes, it becomes like the body of the earth in winter Ycnrnvf- lore overwhelmed, Phoebeis finally shot the heat enters the room, together with the heat included when the ice melts the moisture of the snow he sends with which moist and warm benefit men, herbs, leaves, partly in manure They are distributed among animals. When it comes to ex- Pola's suffocating humidity let the heat not yet suffocate; hence the vapors e the earth was raised and condensed, as much as possible year of the circus Jum. It's a shame, why is April so inconvenient let's try it out. But the Sun is Tau adding rum, when they are already older the thing has acquired strength, it becomes the part of the country is consumed by terror, moist from the roots, in which it rested, into the leaves, the branches, the flowers, and the woman gradually procuring pat. All these worldly luxuries What we experience in Menfe Majo, results; hence the birds and animals nia so benefits of light ray tadla in fecun emotions are stimulated. The sun groans further as we entered, all the moisture of the valley was filled with terror I'm tired of the sun's rays the city begins to decline, the rain ceases you can con- verfls; maturing mats tur; humor quoq; plants grafted from the stems, branches, broken by flowers gathered together with the help of power. On the other hand, Can cooking leg; already with the top neighbor let it strike the earth with the greatest force of heat; hence not only the moisture of the earth there; fed land to perfect fiction di- fpofita, the whole is imbued with extrinsic heat: with which it is done, as the moisture of the plants is excavated lo, the leaves flavefcant, the earth cracks immoderately You are fatifeat by acting like a pot of heat. When the day also the long-winded fint, and the slow-moving fcant, it becomes as if the earth were hot you experience heats such as those experienced in doghouses the wall would die. Hence various infirmities, and become dangerous, which most dogs, we So the above-mentioned reason affecting the earth veri- we will bring Moreover SoleinfineLeonis And in the beginning of the Virgin's confetti, with the knots prosper with great growth, it happens that the land a little cold in the morning be destroyed, the vapors are also drawn in, condense and finally, gradually they are adapted to the new rains, with whom the earth labored so violently, as soon as it was refreshed, I was imbued with new humor there to come the fruits of autumn folitojs maturing On the other hand, the Sun traverses Libra you, since already from the shortness of the days, at that length, the rains will multiply, tel- a game filled with new humors in the weather he acquires a certain degree, whence he is tired of the heat, the tree with its leaves, and the fruit of the cow; all things are in short, they seem to be turning into trouble; who effedusSole innp& with greater ingredients the increments smoke, and towards Solftitium, by which the earth was exterminated by all heat fqualidajacet&maefta, at least oti- ofa, even with rains and ice com- preface, a new kind of things to be generated a woman conceives, which is in the spirit they repulse again into a new fobole. Of the sun and the light of the day, and of the heat cold is drawn from the preceding, the same Solia curfum, arrival rece. ffi. imque, in caufaeff, why the seasons of the year now change, now freezing, now tempered For when the sun lingers below the horizon for warmth cold, but the night cools, it happens that the In the season of May, the night has a great influence on the ground the matter, and likewise the whole of the sky, was cooled he would bear, and he would freeze the cold; with
it is the right office to condense the law; so much so that The sun shines a little in the space of time that we have he is ashamed, soon to the lower part of the sky the zontum was snatched away at once, let him have no light tate, nor the power of craftiness of the air I hung, nor was there any heat, I was dying at any rate, with the grace of sending the fenfim; at- Gnmonica PbjJico-aJtrolonca. they do On the rising of the true day, the Sun i let's hope that the pfum becomes stronger, &nun so, now those clouds are driven away, until they are equal given the abundance of the field, the competition is equal, and equal I knew that he was in love with me; which happens when ad the second half of spring is reached. Then UngitKdf) vidorevadensedacriusipfenodem. acper- dierum ex hence the cold oppresses everything, and I can be angry He was feverish, the more unjustly he had been treated by her. and the Lord of heaven, in a certain way, was livid. push the ends back into the oven, heat it up I went through this whole region to the gra He extended his dominion in every direction. And since there is a vicissitude of all things, when the cancer was first spreading widely I will see the Moon, as it dominates the nodes, badly fined, the inviolable law of the fates to turn the juffiis, to Leo, who with aridifli but friendship intervenes for him, the recipient is disappointed. that thus all things must be lost by rigor and ice: He pours out all his strength in an effort to be able, And those dogs are shot in the hot air. Received at length from the Virgin Aftretese com It is a lie, which attempts to reconcile between them make peace and equal power to both in fact, nothing is of any use: if indeed it is night The Sun armed with scorpions and archers attacked, and in a long, agitated struggle at last he flees, the smoke of things for a time ipfi recommended to the cold, until the men are ready let the adversary be worshiped again. That but not all years are equal; indeed fertile, fertile others, some bu- some hot, cold, or fic- we experience cos; that or the natural Sun protection, or wandering, fixorumfyde- rum conftitution, or even eclipses for a very moist complexion snow with wet bugs humid air temperature; hot and cold dx immoderately in addition to heat, evil I also bring down the world with imprefions they will fill the matter; hence the variety of monsters genera; fic about the rest. So we saw Solis' Pdd twelve: Book VL Proteus Part III.
with the help of the twelve signs of the Zodiac ra &eftedus; now what about Monday's two curfews repeated a million times in the same Zodiac, let us know Of Lum ejfcolibus in the Zodiac. We went into the first book, the same moon a fruitful analogy ftruofpacio passing through the Zodiac to falter in fublunary affairs, that the Sun pre- ftat fpacio annuum. Hence the first of Mondays in the spring of the quarter of the Sun, fertile vo, the third autumnal, the fourth finally hy- refpon to each quarter of the sun give Since then the light of the moon from the sun's color There is no doubt that the foot will be variously modified it must be said, without diverging too much produce the same effedus. Hence the influx Syzygies another from the influence of opposition lu- a minaret, here diverged from the influx of the square to, trine, each different from a sword, om innumerable; near the moonlight with Sola ri modifications, using combinatorial art It is clear that they refute the same profanity they do not have faith with each other, they are painted with colors infinitely variable mixtures. If so The sun and the moon in the fiery clay of the horizon except that a strong emphasis on quality, too the malignant, noxious quality of the faeces they will bring indeed in the Dodecamores with pernicious cold and humidity it will cause a fire: in the fire the harmful light of the miftura, pu tredines; in air, on the other hand, due to the temperate lu menis mift anger, fertility, abundance which brings about things push the rest of the planets to vary they are overflowing But in order that these things may be better understood, a fungula with short rules, five canons let us understand Neceflaria efle fcienti de eledioni- bus time for human activities properly to be accomplished successfully, they all declare
skills, especially, which are not folly? , fed with birth They work like monkeys. For Nifl the Doctor Luna? he should take into account the critical days of his use, iijima He kills while he is dying, or he does not finish properly which? prepared I also became a sailor in the winter, in by the evil lunation of the fe sea, a non-immune fever. Farmer, be menfe Augufto feminaverit cornum, in He will not perceive the pleasure of any part; eat then he goes to the autumn quarter, to which he adds fi fbecundamlunation, will do better. Nor he will plant vines in December, fed in February; nor will he plant them in September, fed in March that Traveling, be winds, and rains, etc they did not trust the rum stems before, to many are affected by disadvantages. Everything, therefore, I judge the righteous, they have time. Use Q with so fi nt, there is nothing wrong, so I can sing some here in order to properly carry out agriculture, -mu tation of time to be despised, medi and the cina to be smoked at the right time we eat Canons of Georgian-economic Agriculture concerning i T Together, all the fluids au- Agentur, they decrease with decreasing in every season. x The moon was congealed in watery clay, om the planting of snow is due to a certain force of the waters to omit the fuffbcative. But in the earth it is beneficial because of the humor the force of the same should be opportunely attached. In fiery afpccts the reason is to be considered: if it is square, eidtion is to be omitted, fecus fi trine, or if it was opposed: then for the harmful artificiality of clay is tempered by heat it is raging In the air, finally, at the right time it must be fixed. The sun is shining, and the moon is below the earth conftituta, because of virtue I will be absent from you, and there will be no wood in the building You will be able to fall prone to caries in the future. Choose trees or vines to plant The moon inV together with with for Venus becomes warm and moist, its light the moon will temper the cold with heat, the nations of plantations and especially then he will return it in the most suitable form. But if Lu if it is not found in V, he will preface the same in t conftituta: be not in Aquarius, the same prefta- bit on the peg X, velny conftituta We must also be careful in the feminine, as let the light be increasing, not decreasing you: for there are other femen besides what hu flaccefcat with moisture, even with worms He will take part in it. C anones Iatriciy Jive about the eleSlions of things medicines On the fourth Monday, I was bleeding mice-, five veins of feclioni conducenti game Rima quadrature moon phlebotomy It should be used appropriately for young people. during the lunar spring The second quadrature, that is, the sftas of the young Lunar li, it belongs to a manly man. The third which to be drawn, that is, the autumn of the Moon, for men, and will contribute to the loan. The fourth square I mean the winter of the Moon, for you are decrepit it's going to happen fit phlebotom. pHlegmatics are useful fire clays V i: for all the veins at this time bee they will be able to laugh, in addition to cephalic, venaf- that of the head: all in Sagittarius also prgter hips; the reason is because the proper ways Gnomonic Vhyfico-aftrologica, it is a kind of pledge to make watery {an humidity of the vagina in phlegmatics, re they blow the natural heat of the air. But in V all the veins can be opened fint, with the exception of the veins of the head, the crown of this thing it is that when the brain is moist and cold da of the complex becomes caitfacv. r xime becomes the opposite of this combination; of art (with the fire of fire, the temperature of the head of the fada 1-iendafil' h the effectiveness of opposite qualities de- rather than being helped by experience he taught rum magiftra. And for this reason the rest of the pots are also parallel to a certain ra tion to be applied; for there is no mud more subject to strange alterations; for especially food for the alteration of the air, and it is changed, it is filled with air, it slows down it is not surprising that the only loss A man is so varied at different times to be altered z Melancholic air vases zz they contribute, for this can be safely opened the veins of the legs and the legs in the water rio, which reflect the limbs. Cholericus figna aquea ss m x con
they say, for this time the veins are opened, moreover the veins of the foot, and of the lungs in ss, in addition Verendorum innp, and besides the veins of the feet in X Good blood, and medium-sized pots all of them are suitable, moreover Q. for the same reason exceffive heats, xr they hurt a lot of fangui- in autumn, it is winter, it is warm in spring; as those who shoot from their arms, which reflect afpedus to planets phlebotomy for having according to the rules of the Medical Aflrologists and it is hot in the morning, it is dark at noon, it weaves, the middle knot cleaves; so that forever your kind of vicissitude, and let him be ashamed; when you are in the mud fuppeditetfspirit, fspirit animal movement you will be able to send the fanguine. f in cholera. fin p melancholy. in itp phlegm. in K phlegm. r appropriate unai in ttj? phlegm, t in X phlegm with phlegm, evacuation, f in np cholera. UnX cholera. f Moon in j Z phlebotomy two or three days before, or later omit the f In conjunction ition oppositely Moon in d or, or planets combuftis, vitabisbalnea; atino 2J. use them safely. Cups of life. Moon in The moon is shining in the field, to whom it is fubet a member apply topical remedies the sword, fed by fire and iron. And these there are aphorisms which the Medici aphtrologists in they will bring out smoking choices: who ta but they are by no means universal to say, because the reasons given in the proceedings; fed tan and to gather them from our climates experience has taught: yet to whom I am prudent the fortune teller does not trust them so much that he does not match them ticular nature of the places is compared: they are for I was peculiar to almost every region diseases that are not fixed with phy- they seem to have intercourse with each other; in I sing to them, too, not so lightly mentioned lest they be boiled poffimt; fed to the inefficiency of the laborer to be supported in all things. And this about Let them work together scientifically-medically-economically; let's add a tetra ftychon, which fynopfin didi Siatheric about it is clear; , j By which all the adoption of things is useless At the time of nojfe you desire; see what the shadow marks, With which Lunce empties the f anguine vein, Those smoking cycles become medicine, he notes. How safe to command thee a fearful woman, These are the hours in which the work of infection is to be done. And the wood with which Lunce had to pass away forever, CunclahtscOeconomos CHAPTER. III. De Jsotanologia fciathericd}Jiye of plants and other medicinal plants-yirtutihus with the help of light, and to know more. Icenifmu TVT OTANOLOG1AM fciathericam this we say nothing else, how fciathericon botano-didi- with, five with which herb, plant, co- and wild medicinals the hands, the limbs of the body, and the figures of the Zodiac a kind of hidden analogy bus to be used at the appropriate time, de- are shown Where everything is explained a little higher order is alive. dd Artis magmLiber Vl. Protbei Part III ijslaiX minavi Jpatx avw L rniium mt- No human race at the end of the maluhi re- hm God has left some means at the end: For on the contrary medium moral diseases of the mind, do- and the nose is given away, St. what does not reach fciplina, a remedy of divine help; medicine against diseases of the body; and so against the death of the body, mind immortality; against the family: evil eye named Gnomonic phthyfico-aflrologica. human knowledge, mechanical art? ; with through the evils of the Republic, political science, and the law is medicine; adversary to casuals armed exercise of providential skills he fights The Providence of the Founder aflimusfmgulas rearranged, as when in microwave oven? fint fingulae, lin gluttony? they must also have a different character. The same curse of the Almighty quo quidintrinfecefignificet, externo phy a toptic clay demonftret, juxta aureum il the play of Polemons was impressive: Xtymmv MctwKvTrnuon. A kind of silent reply Nature speaks of clays, while she speaks to clays, by which he manifests the virtues of each one; where? indeed, the virtues are nothing else than
ftells what? dam, feuforma? plant stems Corresponding to the crelefts, of which oc whoever knows the cult connection He was blessed with ten thousand miracles I have no doubt about the tower. For each one is fteilacolefiis, a shapeless fpiritual herb with thorns born from the earth 'stellafstpe- refpondens I know on this basis, her riomquo-barum coeleftium, terreftriim conftella- The preferences and composition will not be hidden; so who died in Rofmarini, or Abfyn- and the virtues of those herbs will be given to me you it will also fall upon the grass of the earth as many colors of flowers, as many virtues of herbs eff. That is why there is nothing random about the plant the rum family is fed up, just fed redo in the order of the caufis, with the exact number and tempo re, I praise the opportune; as per the external composition of man, inter for we know character; so genuine the strength of herbs by means of external potions to them from Opi I became the most impudent. And what I admitted the most dignified reason, everything behind in which you were manifested in bodies in heaven openly created, even on earth you were spirits The lame are hidden in secret: with an unlivable heat it generates all terror only; so Solterreftrisfuo unlivable heat He creates and regenerates all things inviably. By The Spirit of the Lord works to raise the sun in nature all things naturally: fed by the earth The same Spirit works all things, fed by an unviable reason. And how Solfupernus was invincible with invincible power He is in all things, as if heat were born of all things; so also the earthly Sun In all things there is heat that is unlivable a native of the bane of all things, of the world nut and oil That Spirit lives in all things He is called hidden from things; Is this Sulfur nature? I was my own, and my true name in everything it is called a bus that does not change things; for they are fuperiorain inferiors, inferiors infu- but not, as in fe, fecund the nature and manner of the fuperies. The lowest therefore they should show the falsehood; physical, mental dual: by the inferior, and by the terrible born ras properties, into natures, properties tes of the Fuperni, we have attached Stceleftium. Inferior, external, eternal lia, the note of the fupernos: , acinvibilium inter they are our fimbolas, to whom I have adfuperioruin. let us take the knowledge of the internals by hand The whole creation is nothing but the shadow of the universe God, and the figure of the inner paradise, he saw the shadow of cet insight, with which the Creator's desires, and effedus, ideft, unlivable, through them, quefada they are, they are made The truth about this time they radiate from Oedipus ftrum hieroglyphicum fy magmate de hie- glyphic Theology of the ancients. When you there, to return to the original, wonderful Some of the things that happened with the hells a connection is made, according to the celebrated Mecubalim pronounced; no grass becomes lower than these he should not have a fuchsia plant in the garden, as let him say to him, grow up; when, moreover, the human heart some members of the pore as microcofims fteila: fint, and plants microcofmicas cer both the relation to the rear and the rear, as well the lower ones, saying: certainly, the figs are in order the teeth of the members of the human body with the twelve signs of the Zodiac, so here of the planets when to microcofmi When, then, to the megacofmic Zodiac we have decided to organize the the medical candidate from this Lucis Sc Let them have the shadow of the work that is being done Problem Sciathericum botanoloncum, ftle medicine to conftrure the coelefts, by which the inferiors Jlellce fuperori connected by a bus, that is, I went away with drugs so they order the analogy more closely there, as the human body itself that force applied to the original ejfe let them be strong, show The Zodiac was first written by a gnomon cus hyperbolis, in twelve pots rich, as in the preceding adus, and The figure shown here is propped up. Secondly The Zodiac is divided on both sides four such spaces, in the first space let them be placed in pots: let me be placed in fruitful fimplicia fimplicia, five plants of clay fi
fire, and the members of the human body run fpondentes, the juxra titles are attached here: iri in the third fspace are placed the drugs of fim- pathica: in the fourth stage of diseases the names of the fubj eaters. Finally, in the middle let the image of man be drawn, all the interior things showing the members, to which of the pawns demon they will carry out what is the son-in-law, to whose member, and who Ddd me Great Art Book Proteus' Part Medicine is appropriate for both. Furthermore, from um image balance according to the rules of Uranography pia traditas, fingul den Almucantar were written down, which were next to the greatest Rom$ The exaltation of the sun will be a feast for them clay, be the names of the planets fcribe, the figure of the Aimucantara will refer to you 5th of the world, as the figure shows, motiflra- bitque gnomon from the umbilicus of Solitude nes the first horizon tem, the other the gnomon the time of choosing drugs appropriate What further they will make the threads, it will show a little more. Ufus ici TSotanologL TTIde quodfpacium dodecamoriiim fe- the shadow of the gnomon roars; for within this then fimpiieia, then compofita, fivefympa- the application of these medicines, and the diseases with which let me know they hire by plowing; ro reda from the pocket of the pawn says the member in human form, to whom then son-in-law, tumfleli tereflres to the member correponding to be strengthened, or fuper- flow to empty with moisture, and finally to fa- of the effort to be applied happy The reasons, indeed, and the reason, why the plant I will correct the member with a kind of childishness a tooth to strengthen and fan the same to compare, we have curiously discovered the art of Ma genetics book Chapter of the magnetism of the physician nalius, to which he sends the curiofus slayer we are afraid When, then, did the herbs of the Zodiac they are said to correct fire, and what force thence they draw; This is what needs to be explained. Difquifito HI Phylica De Aftrorum codeflius with A [Iris terre- with five phympathies. CErtum efl nafcenti man a certain Agriculturist indiscriminately, that every one may cultivate the dung Nay, let them grow up; become a vegetable, it will become a plant; be fenfual, it will burn; be rational, heavenly cry, the animal escapes; Be intelligent, Angel it will be with a kind of sonship of adions in Fi transformed by the law of God; &fi no creation tarum may be content, in the unity of the fu cen when he received his faith, he became one spirit with God fade into the foliage of the Father's darkness, which efl fu- conflicted in all things, he will blow before all. Whereby it happens that nothing happens in this universe, which not in man, the son of the world, because of whom all things are created, to be found. Since then in man as in the end of all things gantur om it was impossible to conspire. When too both man and cter are created for the sake of They are blaspheming him with their falsehoods, cer thee, the bodies of the inferiors in a kind of fibi correpondente filimi reason agent Again with the members of man, in I cried for my life crocofmi couvervantes; but life itself brorum not to be congealed with pofntfme food I am a stranger; food, however, because I repu the difpofitions of the opposites let them infect the members of the body, and at the end let them spread the rite: from this the nature of God is provided miniflra, he arranged fua with clay limbs prophylactic, fever of the limbs come, let them also be known to be powerful, chara derifmos, five external qudamfignaim- He presides over the clays, whose fruitfulness I marvel at lem a certain analogy, that member, or they need humor, which is hidden from you a kind of sympathy He complains, therefore, whence comes the force of the curse m6, from the different degrees of heat, in which Zembrum each one is imbued with the fertile nature of nature fu requirement, So the warmth of the word grace, in the Liver the same efl, that in the plants reflecting; for it is different from the eater conflict in winter, reflate another, another liis times: efl by equal reason other He patic, for example, pious to others others tem conflict with the pores. Whoever therefore He knew that in both of them he was of natural marriage Hepatic
applied to nori, for digiofus also effe while in strengthening it, and that with the contrary excessive inflammation, right against the cold by defending his wealth, rum the expert, and will diligently apply those of the annual menftrui, nay of the daily, four parties, Spring, summer, Autumn, Winter, these things are hidden by a certain property I have an impressive knowledge of the correppondents buerit Reconob sets his eyes, as he did in Efl. Se- cundddico, the force of iflam proceeds because of abdi a kind of sympathy with plants as to their members; whatever they desire yours, and rejoice at meeting a friend. From here the dida, for example, the hepatic plane intro fufeepta, suddenly ran to that member; quodipfi nature in a certain kindliness gnatum efl, that is, liver; mmmm ve as if with joy, widened with joy and amicably united with the fibi d he is fed up with torpor, and the most vigorous fu- slows growth So Pulmonaria ad pul I was appointed to the counsels of Cuflodi aeintrofufeeptumfuerit, con flows: Heart to the fountain of life from which the heart is given they rush to the gate; for they have a moldy piet A woman born to him has a certain temperament iftius member, which they reflect: whence he was born ra in the fibers of these plants he reveals the features of the limbs. How the matter give birth
Gnomonica ihyficc-ajlrolopca, the thing, when I first offered it, let it be divided teft as much adhujufmodinfolentem na I was astonished to see the tura induftria. Hence the liver of other hepatic animals for strengthening the pale magnamen of the mind members, they search for their effectiveness experience taught me to spin. I will not say here of Phy spinning, which exfibers, tis plants compared to ma lines new, diseases, to which each a member exposed to ell we drink; for the lines of the plant, the hands li no evidence of any disease referring to him they contribute to it by working hard. So the line they suffer in a certain way from colic affections tis nature in the leaves of Melabathri Agnatam co the licks were scattered. So that the populace xiae obnoxiifunt, line in formancho- rae they have an impreflam on their hands, as with He also expresses acorns in the leaves against apoplexy, the most reliable oar it's been a long time See what is of this nature charafterifmisin Oediponoftro Aegyptia co, Traflatu on hieroglyphic medicine, according to the dogmas of the ancient Egyptians I still deliver what I am about to do. Moreover, the plants are most closely related to the climate It was clear from the first book that From here almost no menfls. Hail the Lamb who does not produce special herbs which, indeed, for the various climates of the horizon and with that confection, and for various kinds of heat by degrees, they acquire a varied character; so that each country I was an element in my mother's faith to present the lighthouse; you have been to every country, regions, fute nation, fute o climate; I was ccQ-dhaLent lo. ; In ancient times, nature produces herbs, to of places due to the hiddenness of a certain earth ex- fpirations in the Angular regions certain produces certain diseases for the region before; thus he produces the herbs of the leaves of the country in the remedy of particular diseases. One of my I roared vehemently, so anxiously sought from India, that we have walls between the domestics meet us; for it is certain that the plants In say, I do not use the folo of other regions they flow in, and so neither do the diseases of any country only friendly to us, because of the climate diversity of influence. As an example to us Arum might be able to fly, which the Egyptians fe fua it provides the most delicious food: but for us because Inflammable acrimony and caution I will give force, both harmful and unfit for consumption it is ItaPerfeaarbor produces fruits, which Among the Parthians and Egyptians poisoned us they are numbered among the better fruits. Ha bent therefore a mold plant in the Angles region certain places corresponding to them in heaven, by whose kind influx they grow, and they are perfected in the grace of man. Hence the ancient Medici, with the wise counsel of the Angles For the lambs, as well as for the planets they knew, by whom they should be carried away, not longer
fim, here is the same catalog of Apuleius I suppose Tlantce Corresponding signs from the opinion of the Ancients. V Scorpion 'y' Tliei&picir of. jif. iq, Artem i Aa. H ntei&picsvfsm'. Anagallis 'Supponv qo Lapathus Q. Cyclamen v Dracontea type Calamantha X Ariftolochia The seven planets of the ancients. h Sempervivum Panacea Eupatorium O Heliotrope. Phlomus. A little bit Alaphotis. And this was the fertile mind of the ancients. But we, in order to make something bolder: the selection of plants and medicines nes applied to the lambs, so to Ho- the horizon of many years we ordered with fervency that it should become an anal both of the members of the said things but if he has properly offered the Lamb, let him have it, which He is able to control the effects of the medicine. And these are the things that I have learned about medicine We wanted to communicate briefly with you. CHAPTER Art magm Libet VI. part of the scrub. CHAPTER IV. Horologio of the cover Vianet arum, in which the quality of each human the member z. fignis conftitutusrefpicit, the shadow of the Sun is stretched out. OCAMUS clocks a fief of the government of the planets, because I do-1 the minium of each the planets, which the old ones in the natural hours of the day praefecifle we did, in fep- The day of the week is covered with shadows he demonstrated with his fingers. The truth is that these things are better to be understood, the owl is of a little higher order. Planetary, therefore, is said to have an unequal hour the twelfth artificial portion of the day, between So the dispute arose and fell, and fell the intervening spring, of which in the third book Quidhorx ti0 fuse has been delivered. But these hours ts. The ancients gave false nets for this reason lest, as the first hour of the day, which begins from the sun at the rising of the planet on which day the denomination would be taken; for the days of the earth are derived from the tongues of the planet he received thee, he will melt from the lower ones. Therefore on Monday, at the first hour of Monday, it was said fertile Tuesday, third Wednesday, fourth Jo you will, the fifth of Friday, the second of Sunday, and fix it in the matter liquid every hour, the planets in order in the circle numbered a little, and at the first fe- They arrived at the hour of the day. What are the facts dle are numbered, femper in the planet incident the denomination, from which date the name should be added it perishes, as it were the table, in which the planet and the day then artificial knots reign in the first hour we annotated the theme. What happened to the rest, I give the days of the day, and the knots of the hours he is willing to acknowledge the threat; take out ipfa file planet first lpfius day', or the reigning hour of knots, in which I will transfer When you find the lowest order of the file, you will give it the right fertile hour. the third of the fuccedent, and thus in the order of the vata and the hours and the planets, at which, repeating the head, turns to the left, quouf that you have a finite number of hours. For example, a fixed hour of the day is proposed Lnnae, when the first hour dominates, in the wind at the foot of the file give, and give the fertile hour the third the fourth it is said that g datahoura governs, the same fa quickly about the rest while he is taxing, fed fungiles hours one of the world's most famous director I am the ruler of the planets, of which I have proved the teeth are everywhere in the world rent dominion bant, from the harmony of things, than with things pUnetamm they were doing it for themselves niam, which the Greeks call which the force of the univerf mufica of the whole is to be contained it is given adftellas these, to whom all heaven speaks born is distinguished by the same subject to which they are directed He took it, and from that world I was the first to be made it is given beginning, Finally, call the master it is true: and then two, likewise cutting off others He would have been very happy, in that way going forward, their geniuses in order re- and thus numbered the days, All of them were raised in a certain way iliadiftindione, and the ornament to match it will come, all beautifully taught
made of heptagons; that nearly as many spring Dion Nicaeus confirms twice in the life of Caepharis: E i ydp? ctpuwidJt? Jiet nasapot wrxfAtav faffroi, pf t7ivf Ca' ut o 7mirs l&ivx koVjw-. ToivxctS iVlttar- OJJtfyS tj) imyayp} iydp- J ttS tp uinti-ruia Svt 7nV tyjiAtu Trrupns Jiocqtui) otopartf. Table of Planetary Rulers. Day of the Knot O Sunday, fiveFeria i Day Monday Feria z g Tuesday fi Wednesday Friday o days Thursday Friday j g Friday the 6th fi Day of Saturday Friday g Q fi No- Gnomonic Pbjfico-aJlrologicd. i Some also count the same anger, di ci, and noxious hours: Aprimaftatim nume they rarely begin, so that it is Saturn then the fertile Jupiter, the third of Mars, the fourth of So li, the fifth of Friday you give to the mother of the moon, through her you speak quickly I will strike twice, which is handed down from the Egyptians: at which you will do again until the hour has passed crossing over, you will find the first fruitful day adhering to the hour of the Sun. Then the same thing in those hours the same as before was done do Monday the first hour of the third day con you will shave From this point, in ex you will offer to the earth, a fitting genius every day, according to the ancients' agreement fcifcet: of which see Aftrologia no- handling the red hieroglyphics, At this point the Hebrews asked how let the moral days of the Chriftians meet natural ones, with Moyfilex all phyfiolo- it will be adapted, and therefore it will be seen by all to be preferred, because Deusidemefie com shall the natures be proved, and the founder of the law? reply God, because the Author of nature is the founder Hebrew and Chriftian gis, that is, they and graces: in them the planets are expreffit, give in; in truth, everything declares him more beautiful a raffle will be open from the winners. Indeed, the day Dominicus is first offered by Ecclefia, and not with the Sabbath of the Hebrews let us run together on a new day; and that the world and the light dawned on him, and he craved for the feast there will be rest in it during the times of the dead a return to the first principle; in the factory Ecchftfti- hatho, however, is not reverfio. sun left cus year t'U! ll Lord, not Saturn. Also, it's hot Ecclesiastes or- mobiles very nature confound by Eecle- be orthodox fummo judgment inftituta. in nature we celebrate Pafcha in the first lunar month, the threat is rising. When will I start? the spirit overcomes the heat of the matter, and they send out The advent of the Spirit when the heat of the sun is too great for us he says The advent of Christ, when the sun was set pit to return to us: St. John when re to yield, according to the said ]oAtmls, It is necessary for me but to make him grow. Lent when the Sun is in the Pythias we celebrate, the fluids are exuberant, we fast usefully. In the morning of the year Chriftus rises, see spring although in season, at noon it touches the sky, and He sends mustard gas, it is already noon; in Au as Matthew departs, he will strike the Gospel at the end of the year. in the snow Who is standing decrepit, Chriftus is enraged; in the middle of the day, when the day begins to grow; twelve Apoftoli twelve menfis they are marked; Matthias is interposed in the bifurcation benefit So you see how well it is fitted Ecclesiastes, let the natures of the times reflect. But for now you are returning to the fabric of Sciatheric we will hurry Problem Sciatheric regime's Planetary con- to come, with which shade of the Sun, at which hour gnetperfingulos week days, Q ho ras, and that every human body is mem- iconifmm brum in Jignis conftitutus refpi ciat, he is surprised. Rimo, inlfaerde, fiveovali sorta they are spread out in a figure next to the fat of the week bad day planetary clock; which they must be reconciled, fupralib. am we have taught ple: whose clays are horarii li to them you attach the charades of the planets to it as tall as you sometimes see. Second, within an oval shape there is the Zodiac, which on both sides You will divide the nations, whose tongues you will clearly mold they will be deputed; intrahaecfpacia two and the letters corresponding to the figs are placed in the order in which you see the fad in the figure. Vfus Horolabius. Rimo, if you would like to know anyone
mind, who in heaven, next to the mind? then, the planet rules: with the flour and the fat, he offered the first day within an elliptic ring, where the domain you trusted to make the planets each; to become God em Solis, see Sciathericondei Solis, five appointed on Sundays; for in that gnome nis shadow and hour, and within the hour lines demon ruling the planets will break Thus the fertile hour will show itself at home Sciathericus Lunas shows the dpminia pla net for Monday Sciatheric indeed Mars is the rulership of the planets will teach on Tuesday. The Sciatheric of Mercury the same regimes on Wednesday, &ficde foreign, as the figure clearly teaches. For they are Sciatherica loam for weeks Corresponding days Moreover, at the planetary hour, and pla- netx dominant charaderc, enter with him a space attributed to the same intrazodiacura, then see what I give to the Zodiac in the flesh let the shadow of the gnomon strike; for the common area nis, five common curfus fpacii plain those found, and he will give a letter to any of his pawns which represents a member of the body The constellation of the zodiac with the discovery of the planet refpi- let But let us explain the matter by example. Sinof fecupis, which is the member Sol in V, of the verb grace crushed together with t? let him reflect, see where the dodecamorium V, which is the number of the gnomon When the time comes, he runs with me b: for in common we meet together ret the letter I, than in any four corners E e e pespets Iconism to follow him Jtftis great goes Pcfei Pt? rj f II. you will find the foot to be a figment: the foot therefore re- trem: when? the ears are open to each one you will compare the attributes of the planets. But the judgment about the destruction of the clay to be done in planetary hours, when we know it does not take place in the market at all, it must be omitted we are But let not the greedy Ledtor ani let's leave mum fasting, here's a table ap We have decided to put it in which the lingua of things born Gnomonic Thjfko-aftrologtcd, a kind of hidden nature when fe- ptem planets having fympathia claf- We arrange the laws according to our climate in such a way that who but with the members of the clay
If he knows how to apply it, he has a secret turus becomes, in which the wonderful in the more philo He was able to preside. Table of natural things that are thrown away by clay (Planetis,
metals Gold Silver Iron. Copper Copper Tin. lead Stones pr and iofi Carbuncle Coralli, Cal. give up Great? Hay- belt, Ame- if Achates, Chry- foliage Sapphire, Sma Turchefia, Mar Garita, Berillus Onyx, Jaffis, Topazius Trees. Laurus, Cinna reminders Apple. Oak Evil is punished. Citrus', Fig. Myrtiius, Vitis. Oils. Taxus, Cyprus I was, Mefpilus. Grains Wolf Cal that Colutea Pepper Grana Chermes. Grana Ben. Pine nuts Gith. Herb, Heliotropium. you are hypericon Lunaris, Ra nunculus, Arte- thousands Verbena, I fa you, Glaftu, Ru ta, Ab ynthiu Hyacinth Narciffus No, goodbye riana, Betonica Satire, Or- chides Hellebore Aconite, Na- fur Animals. Leo, a Frenchman. Aturus, Grus. Wolf, Taurus, The hawk A dog, a swallow. A horse, an eagle. Cervus, Colum ba, paler. Alinus, Nouia Colors. Splendid, lu an acid candid Flammous Rusty Grayer. Red. I am green right Fuffcus, plum good Diseases Hot diseases. Diseases a. cold wealth, 8c the rise of wealth burning with fever Gangrene, Can- cer Apoplexy, Phi- Lomania Dete6tus fpiri- yours, Cardial- gia. 6onorhrtca, Sa- tyrialis Hypochondria cus affe&us And these are the things concerning this Sciathericus physico-medical-mathematical to say two we are A synopsis of the things which I have told net, we are bound by the fertile tetraphtic. The rich treasures of whatever Machaon's Ark, The apex of the gnomon was this vain Jchemate monjirat. Where ever the medicinal fumes are brought, At any hour, which wanders the field. And the signs and physes were attached to the frame of the body, Which megacosmus has, which microcosmus ha bet At the time when you have to do the adoption of things, Light Shadow teaches the work of art. CHAPTER V
Of the Sciathe of the riches of the fertile mobiles, five of the motions of the Planets presenting a shadow UM in progress different ways; do&ince the first mover in various planes of St presenting methods we will deliver, nothing will be returned bat, nowhere to be found that we should find, in which the same induflria fe of movable cunds, i. e. planetary motion they polish to be presented in the shade: they are planted near ctfruLctnr showed almost infinite didloriim the diversity of the movements, the periods to these in explored information, and various directions, (la tion, retrograftionif the planets paf- fiones; to whom you confided little to all he was absent, without almost all of the propofito ar we would throw away our heart and spirit. Yeruntamen, lest the art of the light wonderful brat life would be deprived of technafmate, no no we have moved the stone with which to reach the wishes oar At last a certain method was found, that although it does not become universal at all, the universal it is possible, however, to fall, in the manner in which a few lo, we will lose our appetite. Difquification IV. Phyllis. T)e nature qualities plain tarum And since not only aftronomically, fed phyfies fcientite theoretical ex it is established to fly; therefore of the nature of which that the traftarevifum of the planets it is to make the quality suitable to each one tes effedlufqueaffignarepoflimus Ah yes let us begin there. . I. Hunting of Saturn. O Aturnus, the planet of all Aflrologoru in the opinion of the evil one, five intem Percent, cold, and sticky, the greatest harm He is said to have been betrayed by the power of God there We therefore call this planet a body let him be betrayed by that power, as soon as where Eee j Solis What kind of heart pus becomes Sa turn Book of the great art Proteus l? ars The rays of the sun have been pierced, my virtue the rays of the sun spread on the earth for various reasons to the Sun, and the other planets con- rgtion, as the most harmful effects presides; while in a melancholic mood hidden by a certain power in human bodies promotes, and hence aggravates it, and not only fe- It is done before time and in old age, ari while the fimulSc was cold, I was just a fue of the law rit, in the lower, not while in men it warms and excites the bodies, because this spring bis teflaturPtolomams: o i&tw Of Saturn, the cry of virtue will most Q moderate arefacliva. The two of them are humane hot and humid, as uncomfortable as they may be it is mo, quinfeiat He went forth to corrupt them while we are inclined to cry this nature. True since nothing happens in nature that does not take place weeps with goodness; for, as from the poisons of the fortress on this side of the raft there is a great deal of damage let them come forth; so from this fyder, quan tumvi unauppicata, with other planets, ftel- and the miftura with a concordant temperament, and they emanate non-ordinary radiation menra: for while he fixes men's characters, my husband's labors, endowment, and peculation pint mdan- aptiffima, tefte Arift. otele, returned; whence ckohct. however they either flourished with genius, or in Phi- philology, or the administration of the Republic, he was good at poetry, and at cultivating other arts runt blaspheming, see melancholic cowards then there is, of whose clafle Socrates, De- Moflhen, Archimedes, Plato, Ga Lenus, Cephare, Virgil, and others for we bring those who are such cowards with the Hiftorici, then the gloom, the immense labors, toie- ranta envy, deep thought, invent and the process by which he accomplished his immortality they are, they are blown away by the indefatigable fudge. Nor only in the talents, fed in the heart by stimulating the pore fluids etfi not from the same, fed the wine of figs pb of various bodies and natures fathers drunk with love, all one and the same it does not affect in the same way, nor does it act in the same way; For some to chatter, hence to quarrels, some to vomit, some to silence, silence, or silence who seizes arms for tumult; thus T) &fub the melancholy humor of that soldier moves the dam to the reef, as Democritus, lios to tears, as Heraclitus. What I will give some assistance, such as Therfiten los adfacudiam, as Nephtor: to Alen and patience, like Socrates: to me then, like Pifandrum: for hilarity, like Lu-
cullum: a trifle, as Scrutinum: to cogi tation and secret knowledge of things, as Archimedes: aliosadalia for soot yaporifque, which in the Saturnine mud it excites, by its offensive condition, by its quality quantity; for be a smoke, while the mind They ask to restore the castle, the animal spirit to him they make a fool of themselves; it is done that imaginations, thoughts, reasonings let them create illusions and foster insanity there The imagination of these things in me with lancholic paint, and in fermented mud not that you may know it in any way. For his moisture limfus in dry material What kind of poison is readily received, and what that the same in living bodies hides the fopitus, when the sulfur is removed from the flame then in others, however, it burns, and like sulfur The kindling does not burn only the vapor even a harmful thing completes all things. Who is the snow? the arrows of the others' cries would be restrained, I was a counselor and supporter of the law and turned everything around ret. Hence the influence of it is uncontrolled threats of hypocrisy, folly, and who are acting in desperation, aspiring to nothing deep It renders the slowest formative and the most infective. In the humors, however, hypochondriacs, coli- colic pains, quartering, epilepsy, ele- fantiafin, and the wings of this kind arouse; which: all things are one and the same on the eve of Saturn. with the confounding of humor, indiverfishomi- they are shunned. On earth, indeed, and in the air thousands, and a fruitful analogy It produces two corresponding effects; of to which it has been mentioned in the previous ones. If anyone therefore, the maflame from the refined Larch, exSolanus, Aconite, Mandragora, achyo- with the roots of fciami confused would do, would confess; them from all sides Saturnine fumes evaporating, eofdem in hu with his hand and body he could control the effects which he clean Saturn's body from the fire Solari's percussiveness, exfpiration. Just like these fspecies rniftae to others, as in Theriaca, faiutiferu they provide medicine, so t) for the rest the planets are bathed in the benefic light. So, then, briefly about nature pre- Miffis, now to the Sciatheric ipfus, in which not the foi of his fub Zodiaco movement in any way a moment through the shadow of the Sun; fed Stdkftae It has the same properties as Angular They are recognized, let's proceed to discuss. Problem V. Sciathericon Saturni conjlruere, quonoya by the method of movement f) under the sun's shadow in the Zodiac it is monflrated A tropical Saturnian year, nothing iconic but another, than Saturn's apundlo Zo-xrin- the deacon's revolution touching the same thing, which indeed, a space of about thirty years It happens: Thus this period of Sciatheric It is written first on any plane (we have chosen to be polar here, both because bus re- Gnomonic Vbyftco-afirohgkcL, the bus is suitable for regions; and because accom It is more fashionable than the Sciatherics heretofore operations) Gnomonic zodiac, to use etufirttiHoin lib. It was done. Then the entire Zo- A certain line a tb you will divide the tropic to the tropic, which in He runs back to the end of thirty: we have him here because the corner of the fpace in the fcbemate of the few We dyed the circles. So you will see first the end of ABC has a number attached to it of the year For this reflected line from A through B in C, it refers to the motions of Saturn, namely days: fequensgyrus CDE, will affect the movement of Saturn in the fertile year fmuofa volumes frequently perforated ee fora I K! i i E Ii iNipgi Vfusejttf- already
through the holes into which as many are brought the latter with broad-headed heads, as in those the charadeters of the lambs, but in the rest con- they should not be placed in the fertile spaces of the degrees mere So, however, that he may be thirty years old fpacium, obliterated by previous numbers, turned with the new numbers of the cells, and the gradual movement of the pla nets with the new year's holiday fmt; &fic motions continued for ever it will be bitter for the remaining thirty years with the same lines and ends not in numbers, and in whirlwinds. Places ve ro of the planets in the given years rum to be placed, from the Journals into many they must be brought down by continuous years. Ter
that, in the outer limb of the planet, which he presides over in the clay of the Zodiac Wood, po nature and I would have the Sciathericus of Saturn finite, of which this is the ufo. The sun's rays and with Sciathericum, see common the same hyperbole as the Sun He will write on the day with the end, the fire bending the current fixed by the number of the year; for there he will offer the gracchus, which Satur holds at the same time nut For example, the Sun is blown into Y When you are ready, you don't want to, which step in Let Saturn flatter the zodiac: see how he does it On that day the Sulfupra plane was crossing the line; where he killed her at the end of the year there you will find a certain degree of Saturn. But these things may be better understood from Iconium. are more than can be explained in many words. The problem of YI. Siathericum conflruere. Jupiter in Greek not only from the Greeks, fed& by the Latins both by Poets and Orators risbes fofpitator, fervator, hofpitalis, well the fig tree, the god of favor, and kind, nor not the Father of men. And God, no at the end of great reasons when nature becomes very temperate, qua- and that he should obtain his strength by consolidating the world They congregate in the town; from here it happens that but mixed with uncorrupted embers let him strike the fublunaria with the flow of rum, and radiate the beneficent and harmful forces of Saturn then Mars breaks in, and as a moderator some, and the suits of March and Saturn the arbitrator, on both sides, shall hold office; for utrefte Ptolemy: o atk vp yet n TTotHTiKBV v aujjctimi uiTctt yvofAm( r uviowt CUJ- Tb ti it) ra1? Xpow ttj ii y. ara r koosvxk Therefore, so cunning I will certainly not throw it into something else let it be, how difficult it is to put it, a ball of fire Jovial, which is like a kind of eleft, and aromatic pitches of the most excellent strength the dominion fpirates, all fublutian the life of the world, StApi- the ritual is given. Hincfanguini, heart, spirit Great Art Book frotbeifarr III. bus, lungs, terifque vitalis m em- the prince of the lesser world will be punished; complete with omnibus analogies I will give to those who have them, as in the preceding ca the table of pitch teaches: the temper of the noble man was crushed suitable for carrying out large tasks. And, as I will soon make myself ready, almost all with the Sun it has common faculties: of which, when Elsewhere we would have flown more quickly, here we have a longer run I didn't want to. Having thus duly examined these: Sciatheri with atqueejufdemfub Zodiac movements, in the same way as you will outline. I will state the matter in a few words. A tropical year, five periodical is nothing else but complete from a certain point of the Zodiac to the same cycle, who, when he was about twelve years old that is to say, first the zodiac of the gnomon when you are defcrib, as was done in the previous ones it is, then the whole of the same fertile circles per linea fi- ConCmiBia you will find a new one; or, that he should not know that he was a fool of yesterday d In twenty years we are forced to change, in thirty fpa- you will divide them, as I do on the Sciatheric Saturn it is: whose clay at the end of the years You will add m erum, as shown in the figure. Enter from the periodicals of the end of the year decripta, diftti planets in the Zodiac locafe when the steps, you will order: effedlus also Jovials indi- you turn things to the lambs' hearts fcribes, liabebebifque Sciathericum and, as the figure teaches. Ufus in no from ufu It differs from what was previously declared; snow, that the figure of Sciatheric Saturninus is of the number of three ginta years fpacium, itahujus poft to the space of years is to be changed, So we destroyed Sciathericus on Jupiter, which had to be done. Problem VIII Sciatbericon conflruere. M Artis effete of fiery nature, and plainly eftuantius, the epithet mgoth quo The Greeks call ipfus, an abomination of fate: for burning heat, and has the power to hurt the most violent, so that it did not end that is, it is preferred to the fiery humor of the frontier. A star that was unmounted and cursed with Saturn when, in order to burn and destroy more fully taste, how to boil: that which is in the heart of men yellow bile oozes through the pores, it is acknowledged. Hence vices and evils of body and mind
he introduces as many as possible; for with great force with ardor, and violent agitation of the bile arouses the worst disturbances, which in- composed also of mental affections, &vio- slow and untrusting are made as you can, in whose ranks fight quarrels, con tensions, murders, wars, fimii. So- to use Gnomonic fhjfico-aftro logic. therefore, as nature, in the universe, the glo was crushed I was a kindly influx of Jupiter dliones promoting, so he joined the ipfi Tuesday's body f the movements with which the lower world Numbness of the skin, stuffy. If anyone from Pice, Refina, Ar-. phoenix, antimony, sulphur, mercury, Auripigmento, fimilibufque fphaeram ac- he would make a cenfam, the same in men He would make the fe&us whom we see Mars in to the lower world lim, violent inflammations, fevers burning, eryphipelates, peftiferamluem, fi- and thousands; whence not in good reason but the Greeks attribute noVku to the same than the Latin follicum bile, the choleric hu they attributed death to the closet; for as i5 fof t iyyvmn ammuptttois au tsJ Porr6 figuti able all fe- violent, acute; the origin of the disease, so harmless evaporation group g all pe- The fliers of the world have a fublunar origin: which is the mediator of the snow and the kind of others to be softened by the view that it is deep; Mun while he would easily destroy the ipfus; from here ture in the most eccentric collection of all
changing numbers But the results, which I have mentioned gulis fignisprazflat c? in the same way they will bear; yet a change will happen such a one will be in the fifth place of the rest netarum lumineau6tus, or diminutive fue rite So in fiery clays together with those of fire of the planets afpe&u, the force of Mars will be increased; it will be tempered in water; &fic of undressing, as it has been said Problem Scat hericnm couftruere. TTENuspIaneta beneficent ejufdem natu- rae eft when ijioderata, humida, t ca bright, hot Venus due to the humid temperature, in- and the beneficent power which it has, and infuses; of which he taught this nature experience, as bodies, fubftants in more ferocious, while they are born, fuc- when the gentle and moist had fled; so yet, that it may flow more than it sinks, rather it the nature of the dew, than rain; therefore from Alendorfan Al ma difta As regards the other one, more the quality, of course the coldness, which quite from the heat we put another one, who let him support, feed, such as the Sun, then Jupiter, He wanted to be careful, so that at the remotest distance he could tempt and who imitates him to be born warm. another in- Why? his power would be exhausted. And although? a fool who steals and destroys, such as Mars is j(imum from- such a nature becomes, which we describe, neta-j and he who recognized it, yellow bile: the tender nature of the mother-in-law may be called fe preftitiffe let him go. p0t jn the difpofition of natural things, iis He heaped up gifts on him, so that when he was in trouble push also offers the greatest advantages, as the end of which the world could not be gathered becomes, accordingly, the world most fitnecefla- the river and it seems that it prevails in the greater world aggravated by the accumulation of multiple humours, that in microcofmo due to letiferous fympto- mata in the last breath of life applied to the beetles with a kind of caution, and imbued with a poisonous quality; for these The confluence of materials attracted by from the center to the circumference he delivers a dangerous threat. Yes, no In the nature of things there is evil, that which is not in the good of the whole, and the convergence of all things at last he gave way. But let us know more fcepting from Typhon Mars Tgyptio in Hieroglyphic aphtrology. Therefore, to these principals, Sciatlierion i, ea you will make that profanity conftruBie dentia. But on Tuesday the period of two Sciatherid becomes about a year old, they must be multiplied infinuofalineahujufmodiperiodi, nefin- guls two years the number of Sciatheric we are forced to change. If, then, I know the Zodiac The width of the monicus is divided into thirty finos you will have thirty years of age laughs inferred from the Zodiac; with which I ride
tis, the di&a method of the spindle will be together with di natura one, however iVK&nv, feu tem let us find out what it is like on Friday to the god, sweet-hearted, over whom Cypria presides: al bitter, corrupting, and intemperate If one were to make a ball out of mafty che, amber, 0f0na miifcho, roface water, or malvatic wine fubadum, and would warm him, fubjeflo by fire he would make a ball with the ball on Friday quality effects from exfpiration it is similar to the sources: a hot fire knowing the Venusian globe, the Sun is a neighbor, here struck by the solar rays qualities of all kinds in both worlds playful The wind fills the air with tempe of the rafters, of the damp, scum, commo give the wind blowing, the rain happy curfews with a fleet of ships the supply of useful animals and crops, in crementum, the goodness which he grants: hence the luxury of goods: the luxury of pleasures He has debts attached to him: whence in the man whom that the same because of the cup of the liver, pleasure, And he is said to be the head of the tickling fountain. But let these few be crowded out of many. Mercury is a very different planet the fatal nature, with which Proteus was born, in mniafetranfmutet And although it is fupralib. at first Mercury is great; into these inferior C{Xlfua We have denied the power of Thee, and because of the smallness both his body, and the rays of Soiare, to whom Artis magm Book FI. Protei part III. by which his strength is somehow taken away suffocate; but the true fint from the lost Aftrologoru about its nature various ob- fervently, I'd say it's mostly due to which becomes the neighbor of the Sun, and is almost its femper may the rays be hidden, never from the same, twenty snows declining by eight steps: and to each neighbor the moon; close to the earth; whence you mean almost equal emerges in defication, fluids from forbidding; from which the changes were made in which direction with excited speed the fua, by which it moves about the Sun, is the effector; therefore, in the qualities of the body's humor the same blue for the night, and the other it can push a lot. Hence at another time the fri one part of it is dry, the other is moist, sometimes warm and retorted, not a windpipe is never found, because now the nature of the Sun, now of the Moon, or on Friday, with whom it is mocked, the swifter he clothed me But when he was born on this planet ra nor until it is fully understood, I am about him we would like to say more. After having thus duly destroyed them, I have already of the Sciatherica planets Let's see if they like. First let the Zodiac be made a gnomonic for schiateri fecundumlati you shall divide the head of the body into thirty fine parts, in which are you? years of age for each of them the order of the registers, places and degrees from You can put them in newspaper clippings. which you see here; register where that with efiedlibus and properties having deputed this ufum; Sciatherica finished Those numbers will last thirty years; as they evolve, they will change over the years, others that the numbers to be inscribed in the limits, it is a toothpick. cliptic But it will be killed, it will be eclipsed the coming is done, both of the Sun, and of the bodies, according to speed up the North, or Auftra- li, whether or not the ecliptic is the middle of the earth to shade, no other way, mifla, that would divide the machine of the world, be transferred Why five terraipfa Mondays to be opposed, as a shadow, which let him be spurred on, five moon Let it be thrown into the sun, that the light of its fubtrahatter ras: it must be killed on both sides of the planet to be found But you must have a firm mind pere, in two ecliptic; places of equal degree of capital, um interval tranfire in tranfferfum line-C4rifDM- am that, five circle, through which the Moon fer-conK' tur, because the ecliptic is refiling the interval leaves something open; where indeed con it is joined to one side of the ecliptic by the Dragon's Head nis, the other Tail, let Aftronomi, me lius Ptolomreus: he came out, tying the knot, and de- fcendent Therefore, pundta of this kind is not dung appears to us to be moved through the sky than the Sun, and the rest of the planets how intermittently they walk; whence it is done, as
femper in opposite places of the Zodiac somewhere to be found It is called a sticking knot, which He seeks the top of the other: the defiant, who it recedes in the same way: and both knots are mo separated from the motions of the other planets verfus: for z i. days one step, as many the same year in the reciprocal conjunctions of the Moon they are numbered, he completes: and here he is The number they call Golden, five nineteen; of which in the Ninth Li-Vnc[eaurctif bro funnier These two knots are therefore a famofif number those fat points, which; fumadiligence ob- are fervent by Aftronomis, magnamqiie ha- in tnnrnrinnihii. inferiorismundi vim. Problem Sciathericum fl EcUpfeon Solis, Monday conft rush. It belongs to him, as the labors of the sun and the morning that is Eclipfeon, the Sciatheric demon let's also arrange a break-up. I remember but you say that first of all, Zo a certain line of deacons, whose name the mean of the ecliptic ri, nor the Sun ever anything from it to retire, that he might go the same way. But Lunadigrefla to several degrees almost entirely Let him be exfpated by the zodiac, and not by the femper fub the ecliptic is made to meet the Sun; but for the most part he is freed, having only been falsified; indeed The sun in a certain place, say degrees in the first thee, the Moon passes through the thicket beyond the tropic, between while at the fifth and each degree from the ecliptic ca, sometimes less; or to the lower branches on both sides of the same tropic it is just conveyed, and does not touch anything effectiveness; not because you want something where are you going? They are not imaginary snows, he says; Fed that of the Sun, the Moon; misdemeanors for reason, the quality of the bonds in which they are found they make divers and divergent efforts; another the enmity preserves the wickedness of the Sun, and Lun: n in the Borean node, another in Auftrino contingent: also another effect in the other three knots in Y V n, another in tip, fic of the ages, confounded. For in Vfeu ver at the time the heat of the indigo air is more remarkable loss in promoting the generation of things by them he receives from the privation of light, as in Q, where I was a fast being, coming from liquid, a little warm; fic about to the rest Utverognofcas fingular clipfeon effectus, them from various Authors collected, here I brought the fubj to be anointed. Remfa Gnomonic l hyfico-aftrologica. RewU, of which direElone eAftrologi ex from Ptolemy A car is given, and other things are impromptu. They have a lamb at the changes of the year xYl eclipse the power of both luminaries: Therefore, before judging the quality of the year be uttered, they are eclipsed with confidence: I inquired about them, having been tied together in the same year there is nature, but also the truth of the past of ours, because the ecliptic was effe&us ad another time is postponed. So that's fine The effects of the eclipse are known as fertilizing the rules will be followed. Eclipses of the Sun are very cooling: therefore the generals of the world should not have with the quality deflru&ivte fint, than na tura retreats. II. Eclipses of the Moon by fe femper cant, and let them cool a little. III. When the eclipses are multiplied gnae during these years, because the earth is cooling, and to be forged IV. If with this the rains are copious, or inun they will have to pay taxes, which will be increased, of course they tend to be cold; then a terrible famine He dined, and there was a great scarcity of things. V. Bclipfestreshabentvirtutes: potent by reason of conjunction, or opposition nis: general, since they cool slowly, but therefore the days are focused on many: for prior, which is held by the local denomination. The lord of the eclipse has a great power in him the power to be eclipsed, therefore his nature indeed Denda: Yes. Ptolemy VII. The drops fixed on the place of the eclipse tants, and at that time they either arise, or they hold the middle cask, they are of great strength: they are to be trusted their places VIII. Saturn is the lord of the eclipse corruption from the cold: causes diseases of the lon gos, losses, destructions arising from the fevers, fluxes, and quarter fevers; brings exiles, terrors, and scarcity of animals, c' diseases of cattle, terrible cold, gla sky, fog, thick clouds, darkness blizzards, snow, shipwrecks, death
the floods of the rivers, the waters below vations, fruit rot, caterpillars, riches, that kind of other things. When Jupiter dominates the eclipse it gives an abundance of useful things, and destruction is harmful rum, the temperature of the air is sly, windy, wet, medium-sized rivers grow mints, the destruction of wild animals, and the abundance of children; what trick tate, the destruction of the lunar quality Mars bilious diseases, I am a mudblood ptions, acute infirmities, third fevers nose, hot winds, peltiferous, m ina, you are rb in es, fi c. citatem, maris gflum, fru the gum causes swelling and conflagration. XI. Venus theme done, humidity, tempestuous rains, useful outpourings of water, anim a supply of them. XII. Mercury causes febrile diseases, fevers everyday, gusts, puffs, gasps, strong and disorderly winds, fiery thunder; yet the lightning, lyum, the destruction of the plants by fire, be the west such strikes, diminishes. XIII The images of the flowers, and figna Zo diaci, for the various qualities to which I give they float, at the time of the eclipse, they flow. XIV. Allologists think that the masters of the ecli the better for the variety of houses in which or they become eclipfes, or ipfirefident, in action to vary Black light blue color rium, at the time of the eclipse, the Saturnines Ftus represents: with candles Jovial: red Martians: yellow Venus: various Mercu- [Iorec! p rials, diffused throughout the bodies of light they extend to several provinces. Yes Ptolemy Fluffy hair at the time of the eclipse on the nature of Mars and Mercury I will fire the bile give hence they provoke wars. So Albu- Mayer Eclipse of the Sun, or of the Moon, in a flower cutting down a rent tree, it was yesterday He returns the problem. So Cardanus. The eclipse of the sun will go to the flowering mef- Feminizing, it brings the same. Eclipses are wont to bring rains, Saturn and Venus are most of all aided: but the fictitiousness, fiajove, StMarte. They make eclipses in earthen clays, and they bring forth a flower: in the watery hume ftan, and the skins with flowers tur: in the air winds and odors with pe- weeping: burning in the fire and most death. XXI All these things are of great importance to them to the Regions, where: or they are won over by any means; to those men whose local nature when the same thing is agreed upon. How many equine threads are there in the garden? they will be, at the time of the eclipse, so many years in So I am a liar; and so many men in the Lunar du Cardanus pronounces effedlus raturos. Eclipse falling in the east such a finisher, he pretends to effedlum futu rum in the four nearest menfis ris, with which to begin; and as to perfection even more violent futures at first Fff k. l o Artis great Uber VI. Part III of the scrub three thirds of the whole duration. Yes, Avenragel. If in the middle of heaven, the intensity of in the middle of three days of the whole duration you If in that western hinge, in at the last three and in the same way become a master eclipses in the same places. So Cardanus. And these are the ephemeris, which the Altrologists in They are unwilling to trust in eclipses; to whom many some of these truths are founded in nature I also do not know what Aphtrological vanity is they smell I don't think the planets influence fedfub indeipfius the solar body in the lower in flow difpofition of which chap. just dt. But if any one should trust them if he wishes, let it be permitted through me. True hxc failed bus eciipfeon fufficiant: now to the Problem let us return to the bottom line. The preceding Zodiac is then repeated gnomonic, which the fine flow of the line in It is difficult for the lorma of the nes, or finus, how many years efl; periods cus motusQ. &TJ, viz. rum, with the addition of the fingulisfins of the years no mere, as the figure teaches: or, as Sciathericon to the rest it is joined, in thirty fine di- fpefces, we are here in only years fpa- when we stretched out the knot of the Dragon. In hifce giris from the Journals places of knot fcendents, according to the degrees in that order
fcribas for a space of thirty years, which here you see the fad, at the time when you eciipfeon I have recorded both the Lunar and the Solar. But the signs of the Zodiac adfcribes effedus na turals, in which the Sun and the Moon are deficient prefent, and I would have Sciathericon presepa- ratum, whose ulus efl; if Ufus Sciathe here. IN exofitoSoli Sciathericum oberva um bram of Ityli: where I live, see where I stand The play of the Sun passing through the shadow will make the year why the end of the rent: for in it it will soon appear rfusscia and when in that year the future will be eclipsed fiction So in the year for example, the circle ABC oftendetu I will eclipse the future on the day of August That form of the sun, which the figure refers to, to whom in tbtrics with the same bond he shall recompense each one eclipse All this is true with a figure let him present it clearly, and let it be fuervacaneum ra tus fum to make more words about them. You see therefore, by what reason They want to be presented richly, in which the movements of the pla the days of the netting of clay with difficulty they gathered together: "Cujufmodi in my Mufaeus. in which all the places of the planets declinations, widths, retrogrades, dredions, other paffions, no shade to the astonishment of the onlookers, a kind of wonder [they are demonstrated by reason. But they turned back In years the verticils were transferred to places others, according to the Ephemerides, you will change, add and you will have five years left in the other At the end of the year, without any change of lines, I went pfeon Sciathericon CHAPTER. Gnomonic bjfco-afirolovica. CHAPTER V I. Ue Horofcopo afcendentmm fignorum, aftrormnque.
N TIQUI in, square ginta odo Afterifmos distribute all the coins runt, and the names in to teach, or from a figure, or from by the power of influencing, or by I will mention some fad li, metamorphofi, fable, utifufein Aftro- nomia nollra hieroglyphica demonftrabi- there which he again divided into three classes vivifoftei- runtj Boreales, Aullrales, Zodiaci. We rdm! XU' relidis Auflralis, Borealis, tan them then we will impose the Sicatheric ncftro, which they are concluded within the space. Which all use size, so also strength they are torn: whose force is greater or less in the action of the planets repeat, or in order for multiplication nem, and the temperature of the streams, or in order do not determine the intensity of the efFedus there And let us speak in the first way, fixed are nobler in action than the planets: and because they are in such great variety most of them were loyal to each other there is a variety of effects: both because from The planets are controlled by fixed planets infused, and gathered together for a long time: for the planets vary while they are in their fused motion they roam the regions of heaven, women; fixed but the laces encourage the thrown femen, and to ma- they lead to curviness. A very fruitful move they would be trusted, the stronger would undoubtedly be run the planets; and because I lived in the sun and on the earth the younger ones; and also because he was a nobler of the Zodiac On the other hand, they are constantly diverging from the Sun there Yeruin with the nature of these, for It has been said in the preceding it is done, let us proceed to the confections of the Zodiac. Aftrologists therefore have a long experience in when they noticed the Sun in this, with a veil After the zodiac, one and another I did not eat the whole year's cattle, fed and fed no movement on the four hinges, look at the angle although, the west, the south, and the middle nodtis to produce a confectionary point; what- which signs are perpetually false; as much as below riado- the horizon of the ethereal space of the heavens It is known to divide 'm into twelve equal parts rent, of the nature of the duftumfecuti, twelve which parts the heaven, as it were, into twelve they distributed the plagues they call houses fed in a very different way. Others, Arabesque for you, they divide heaven into twelve parts; fex the largest circles in a common point the horizon and the meridian converging put on the circle that is the primary vertex so many let them deny Various c. mother I become a force. cim parts difpefcients. Some, com the munitions of the horizon, and of the south reread, divide the equator into two circles they divide into parts: some do other ways they nodded He is a true and natural disciple
will hold an appropriate method that fin- the houses of the gulls at a space of twelve hours He will give unequals. Old ones indeed I will make a common manfure with my wit of the time they devised for their convenience of all the nations of the whole world, that is to say moved by Aquarius and the Zodiac; equal dtial, indeed, because he completed his parts they are equal to twenty-four, to which in a certain proportion of unequal motion The signs of the zodiac are brought back. True because the movement of the same circle at first, principally and by faith, it is not with the influx, only fed by accident, nor was it even broken time steals days from knots; so It was difficult to find another way to deceive the movement of the Zodiac, from which tanr than from the efficient and naturally principal every influence of the whole nature emanates in lower life, breath of life, and movement: whence the Zodiac was taught, that there is nothing in it inanimate, and artificial, fed by soul of things, of men, of beasts, of women rum, terreftrium, aquatilium, perf edor u m, and the images of the monsters were contained; Zoi this is the source of all life: the life of things of which more in the preceding diflerui- of all things. mouse When, therefore, the ancients noted the Zodiacs: with an uneven movement, he broke the horizon I rolled out, and fed up with the horizon what to do; from here it is a fad, like a clay pot fpaciis from the east to the south line they would attribute the same number of hours from the line to me I laughed at the nape of both sides, and from here as much the farthest of the sky, and at last the fex other to the hour zontem each way; so that the days are shorter as long as they are, and nodef femper in two would be divided into ten parts. And from here the first emerges from the division of the houses of heaven, which twelve ho to each house of the nobles the uneven lines are fixed; just like that while the movement of each and every pawn tur two unequal hours, so cujufli- bet the size of the home becomes two of unequal hours; in this way remain. cry, the fire of the influx of one and the same of the pawn during the configified time innotefeat, and likewise ipfa menfura, and ref menfu- rate with the houses made of wood they are made to differentiate strengths and qualities generic and specific inside the houses! fff confi close the borders And although this is true, certain, legitimate, and to the order of nature, and The distribution of the lent houses takes place, as The aftronomies must be careful in their direction; we nevertheless in this Sciatheric noftre rational, the Arab method, because of the comma we use the more Sciatheric division. Therefore, having thus trusted in these, to the registration horofcopi Sciatheric turn the pen-j mouse Problem X I pray to Scyather with the Jivnorum he will bind the moment of the ascendants in the plane of the hour to describe the zontali. p Rimo is described in a horizontal plane some of the Sciatheric people of two-parted pawns according to the rules of the leaf
Jconifmm Gnomonic Ihyftco-ajlrologica.
handed down in the progress of the book. Second huic idem j according to Problem Prag. in- they were written along the police line, live directed whether, or what is the same, the heaven of houses ftium, as you see done here; would have that when Whose flight is it that made there Hoiofcopii Sciatherici. T Nhac figure of bipartite Sciathericon di- fpofuimus: that he confided to us it is cut, as the trees of the trees grow You can dignify it with a line of mints: for the first time, in the living room, the sun warms to in the half of the year Inferior but in the second half of the year the Sun from in qo descending For because then the artificial trees arise every day, it becomes like a weed that only grows trees line every day with propofitum offensive they would show the wood; their lines, of course of the swordsmen, during which day they arise, in which Indeed, they are calculated from the position of the Sun while the fucceflion of the trees; for those Clyptica is only strong on that day, which they refer to in a line, with the rest of the figures in for the third day then they do not rise. For example, So at the beginning of T', arise inter- long this only fex figna V V n ve Q. ttp, oc by the falling Sun, the beginning whence con- often none of the finishing touches
Obviously =o=wp qot X, even if it is a shadow in the lower part of the fchemate he must command Similarly the Sun at the beginning n after colliding, they arise from it diefex figna n ip =a=tr; And the sun rises in the west. Which I would like to have a good day, so that we can understand In The Zodiac, who was born in the bus, the shadow of the gnomon he found a poss in the lower Sciathericus; be in to the defenders of the lower branches of Sciatheric, shade must be offered. Real business let us declare with an example. He wants to know what to do you were the beginning of October, the Sun at the beginning With a book that is bound, by which the potions arise: when Libra becomes one of the defenders, and oquinoftiale; lower Sciathe I call the shadow; for this, even in Oquinodfalus, or in that neighboring parallel proceeding first the point G, through which the line ttp when he tranfeat, at that moment he would be offended pore TTL rise: but the shadow falling on the line F, will arise; in E, qo; inO, n; inC finally, K will pretend to rise. same thing the rice must be painted in the order of the pots. If indeed o was in the 5th century li, below the Sciathericum for half a year it will be slain, and the son of those who are affected the shadow of Horofeopos will represent him: so um bra in pundto F oftendet arise, in E n, I will make the same judgment about the rest of the order becomes If you continue to impoverish the Sciatherics fixed laces, which at the same time they emerge from the horizon with some kindling, o the shadow of the fixed ones also rises, and occafus As pneterea, and with what clay at any moment of time in four eoeli icomfmo. with cupped hands, that is a kind of pum, which culminates in the middle of heaven; that in the west corner? that at the very bottom he becomes faithful, you know: to both Sciathericus you will find a board attached to it, from which you can dive faster than the rest of the pawns, and so you will know the destruction of the whole heaven. Yes for example, the shadow of a moon rises somewhere, the board of the Sciathericus in transfer of pawns try and defend at the same moment: step eff in the middle of heaven: step I hide in the corner, and I write about the rest. Utprx- sciatherici you know more; in which house with the Sun, then the lady with each branch of the east, the rest is fint, for both sides heavenly home you fly according to the rational method I will show that it is indeed in the lower part the north-facing house; in the lower truth umywf, five futer conftitutas the horizon We will describe the house, as if it were a paper they will answer Therefore, the shadow in the lower part of Scia theric found within the ipaciumFG The sun in ix. at home thus within the fspace EF, found the shadow of the Sun in the eleventh; in- traDE, in the tenth; intraGD, innOna; enter BC, I hated; intraBA, deinquenepti I will pretend to be at home. If you ro shadow on the line afcent W somewhere re it is underfoot; it is not thence produced in the house Effe, in which shadow is found, fed him then in the first house you will be exiflimed, in the rest but when he had finished then, to those who hold a place in heaven which the file demonstrates. Furthermore, in rior Sciathericus indeed the same ix. I give the lines of cceleftian manners, fed no- of the future, five subterranean indices. Thus the Sun in the lower Sciatheric conllitutus in the tenth house it is inferior, opposite so the house, that is to say, the fourth, the fire imam heaven; that what kind of fixnurn at that moment time Occupy, the file will show For example, if the Sun is in the tenth house or wishing, the shadow of the fimul marks the line of the table will be filled at the same time re in the house fourth effe degrees so that the gnomon in the lower femper demon The house is opposite the houses in the suburbs ri carried away I must also note this co, you raise the shadow of another reason other hours, and to show the pots; falling for the shadow in one of the lines touching bus, or hours, soon that cousin, to whom he lines You owe Ff Jlrlis magm Liber due, afcendiffe, anything else that is done to start lighting, five o'clock, than the line marks, finish, and begin another, fignificabi-
there On the other hand, fe lines have do the muum of the sky; for hre not ends, fed they indicate the beginnings of the houses, so much so that the shadow falling into some of the di&arum lines he would show the Sun in that circle of policing Exifter, who is the beginning of that house the code, which the registered number indicates; for when the houses were numbered from I set the rising, and the sun with the movement of the day be carried from the rise to the nape of the neck He says, I give the sun first at the end of each one mouse, than in the beginning to expel the same. Just as a shadow falls on the hour lines passing through the hour from beginning to end VL Proteus Pm III. the faithful elf; so the shadow falling on the for from the lines of the houses raised, the Sun through that whole house the elf had already been brought by the end is the same as the beginning. Moreover, be someone in this Sciatheric defcripferit plain- I give the tares, the ancient hours of fire, and for the clay It would have been two unequal hours for me; have bit is the registration of the houses of the coelefts according to the true, 8t legitimate method, de of which we have spoken in the preceding passages. Deni that heretofore the houses in the lines of the trees to which I was happy to be together with nature in quality, and in those things which belong to the phyphics tions, they may be joined: But these things leave everything to the execution of CuriofiLedoris mouse f' On the length of places. rum UEMADOMUM through the movement of the fibers from V at first fertile for a long time the condition of the ecliptic? , and order of pawns trusted, together with her a round of cloths in width dine, this is, from the deviation of the ecliptic, in I have come to the knowledge of the ipfare femmes mouse by a not abysmal reason in the middle of a long one the length and breadth of the places of Ungulos, policing, and wishing to obtain mouse We therefore call the data of any place iuid longi- the length of the arc of the equator by two I will include the wet place of the south, the second of which through beyond the west of the habitable Earth mum, but the rest through the offered place we are imagined to be registered. In short: long the whole of the place is nothing else, but the very place from fixed in the west; I was killed by a stick we understand the tooth as a feTion of the fourth with the meridian product, through the ulti the western frontier which some by the Infula Azores, some li by the Infula Hepherides, most of them Ptole I sailed through the Canary Islands, which For they call them tunates, and they will write us down. Now the arc of each of the parallels a in common with that interfedlion he fixed it at the south, and went to the given place the meridian intercepted, for that place it is usually smoked at length: it has but do not apply the same principle to the whole lum, than the aforesaid arc of the equator to and the waterer. And that of the equator ar cus, which is from the two meridians through the two qua the force will be intercepted after passing through the places, long the difference between the same places is no threatened, that is the bow of the same waterman, in the light of the proper parallel, in which one of the data lo of the two is more eastern than the other. And just like that nothing is easier than the calculation of length even to understand, so nothing more difficult than to determine the same; so that here is not imme- Difficulty rite of the Gordian knot, in which the dif- by cheering, indeed all up to now Ma- the thematics betrayed; yet no one which he was still able to invent. Oron- that evening the noonday moon, &ftella fixated indeed, he inflames her with fervour; fed so laborious, so perplexing, and a difficult method so that Euclid does not refer to it, or lemausfufficiens effe poffit: fimilimetho Morinus boasts that he has found her. Some by Magnetic Variation they hoped to reach it by faith; of whom but see the Geography of Magnetus cam. Some, through the eclipses of faith, of those who say Another one not so long ago culas, the five shades of the lunar mountains find the true length of the field the snow is falling. But I fear lest, three times all the methods tried so far, from those which the Metaphyficas fpecuiatib- let them call, by number fint. For neither fufficit, in this place various reasons, in which it it can be done, I promise; fed mode com sought by the offices of Gcographers, easy and affordable everywhere; whom
whosoever shall find it, he shall not be mine I know how to make a square circle if it is true, it must be censured. Then another method in the length of places con- so far from the Mathematicians I was not bitten, I began to be overwhelmed by the snow of the gods, or the end of any lunar eclipse. Who what reason Gnomonic Vbyfico-ajiroloricn. xx. for which reason in the whole world let it be done, let us teach in the council of ours Geographically; to which Ledtoremfuo tem pore remitted. When, therefore, our mind becomes, Horolo to describe the Catholic Church in this place, that the hours with all the places, then po- the most profitable in the Colleges of the Society to spread throughout the world, demonftret; it- that at the end of lengths the efficiency cannot be done it puffs up; I lay down on it with smoke, as Or well the lands near the various offerings pfeon, in Europe, the East Indies, China, Peru, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, a no- of the second order of mathematics, do not take fruitful lengths I would determine the date. He lived in the same place the difference of time, which in the obervation of any eclipse, Nanchini, for example in China, Gox in India, Mozambique in Africa, Parnambuci in Brazil, and elsewhere it emerges from the cited places; It wasn't hard at all the length of the different places, and in- terfe, and among other intermediate places of to terminate According to the prefect Share this clockwork tree We have founded the state. But in a long way of growing up, of obfervations that from PP Societatis noftres all over the world dif ra sions, fuse ex proeffo we have delivered in The Geographical Council; where mo while we were searching, where the whole world Or twice a short summary can be corrected. Re- therefore, bring us to your little one heretofore mouse Problem Horofcopium Geographicum uniyerfale So to crush the city of Jefu, whereupon the omnilus Colle throughout the whole world the dif- iconifmtu you flee, every hour jit with one glance of the demon it is wild aftronomic olanthorology, or verti- calia, or horizontal, as has been done here, well adapted to the region: velfiuniverfa You would like to be polar, adapted to the whole world let the clock be whole hours together with intruded at half and quarter of an hour. in each of these hourly lines, that is, hoursaftronomics, in the order shown in the figure ra appears: that is, for the length Pro ea- a round from the Roman south, You can find these hours easily, or from the table show more in the crushing of the cylinder ta, or from the Geographical Council. A tree Here we have drunk Olive with this incri- irborSo- option; Like an olive tree in the house of God: jusramosdta difpofuimus, ut univerfa So forces in five Afiiftentia, Lufitanica, clock French, German, Spanish, Italian cam divided, five as principal ar be presented to the branches of the boris. Each and every one of them ro Afliftentiae Provinces together with the Colleges belonging to each one, thus difpo- they are known as clocks and clocks vinciarum impofiti, name j E S U perfect let them report: nay, not with great wonder you must have a machine of the sun polished shade fua perpetually mobile, like a certain name J E S U walking from Ortu to Occafu through with the growth of the name of the shadowy shadow, and decrease, not tamphyfiea, than my to exhibit in a certain way; as well as that with a movement that was wonderful, it would show itself to be corruptible noneffe, which is the name of the divine God which he overshadowed so generously. Details of nor will the horology mdnftrabunt the shadow of the three angular hour to any Provinces, Col competent legion. And the duties Society throughout the world to the norm of Conftitutions sharks fic diftri butio, it will be permitted to collect without any business, what at any hour it is done in the lingular colleges, as At what hour is Miffa called, it is asked, at what time let him steal, go to bed, have breakfast, dine tur, &fimilia, to be collected by any leader we leave A clock of this kind meconfedtum, invifohucufquefpeftacu- lo, in Mufgo meo palmorum in for- Bionibus
The mother is shown dressed in a cross, as a company therefore no one pro- he bears the burden: and he will see that Leftor falls down in his arms. riffime, common services, use Sacrofan- ftumMiffie Sacrifice Society JES U, to be continued for so long and so long, that I did not mention indeed, they are interrupted for a time. As therefore, iMalachis may be seen here as a refpexiffe chap. In every place an offering is offered to my name clean With the rest of the Society all over the world spread throughout the world, and fulfill the functions as they are in the Council nes, Confeflions, Catechefes, and other fi- thousands, in all kinds of tongues; hence in the hateful quarters of the world oft Cardinales come We have painted these, that of Pfalmi: From the rising of the sun and I will add to it, the praiseworthy name of the Lord, of many tongues, and the god of the race of mothers, who bus company uses worldwide honking In the four princes also with the four corners of the clocks We spread out the kind, which are burning mystically the study of divine meditations, in which fingulislioris, velutijaculis quibufdam Nu We need heaven and earth. A double-headed eagle hatches on the top of a tree we have sketched the feeding birds, by which August We note the first house of Austria, fub whose wing is the greater part of the Society, beni- gniffime planted, dug, and propagated, in He made it grow into a tree, which he saw before him the wall Which is why I wanted to describe here more briefly, i Artis magna Book Proteus 7ars that the Society, alive with the immense favors of God, should be promoted everywhere by the youth of the place this myfttcam tree would not be awakened by any means, pore worshipers, more ardent to the worship of God, CHAPTER VIII. Jflrojcopia, feti Sciatberica Seleniacd, velnoElurna, to whom pdrtim by The radiant moon shines, the rays of the fixed rays an hour of knots is demonjlrated. You are completely ignorant it is Aftronomis, when ad offer exaftam fwnuivw vation, but foreign transfer business the hour of the night and the offering, as you can be as strong as the hinge of the whole Inftauration is based solely on Aflronomite. Therefore, it is necessary to deal with them in this part, not anything, that to Art noftramLucis And the shadows can be recalled in any way let us see you So the first place obtain Horofcopia Seleniaca. Which; etc for the variety and inconsistency of the movement of Lu nans did not go so far ft rent, indeed, it could not be done as at Solari ho the perfidy of the clocks pertains to that; try
but we are afraid of those things, so that the hour of the night was futile, as much it will be possible, they will tell the near truth. Problem Horofcopia Seleniaca, jhe Lunaria in dejcrile dataplane 'Pragmatics I. Seleniactim horizontally piaat first horizontal horocopio five hours from noon middle node juxta rules in lib tra riches, and the ABCD lines are produced in Bo- the real part of the horizon, as in the figure pa- tet- clock is placed on the other orbi EFGH in proportional parts. five hundred parts divide the world ABCD from E a pound by walking which; space Monday's periodical refer to the motion: put it thus there, as if inside a shell from the innermost world five lunar days di becomes verfatile, trian- r and the elevation of the throat nis pole is erected fu for the hour line; fixed, immovable; that which shall be done, let it be done throat, that which in fi you see, method you will order: ha- I drank and ate pious traitor ZJftis Horofcopiu Numbers at first the age of the Moon; from Eph I put it in the middle, or below an extract from the pound E in the outer circle; and having rolled up the hour to that number the twelfth of the orb of the verfatile, in which see although the horofcopium is drawn, five triangular shafts, in the same orb the shadow of the moon will appear on the edge of the verfatil an hour of knots We pretend for here, the outermost world thus first swell, as EABGlinea; noon, HCD the verbhors is a cruel match. We use also He will fly mSi
also of the triangular Itylus, because of the Lunar cycle the shadow which the axis of the triangle makes, the better and it distinguishes the hours more clearly than the gnomon apex, which in the shadow of the Moon, as elsewhere demon- He is false, deceitful and deceptive.
I said that the outer world must be divided into parts divisionproportionalfifive fimilidi the vifion of the hours: what will happen, fi circle in 3o divide equal parts into two: for here it is fupra you will level the plane in the gnomonic triangle polished, the pundain will end at the equator, through which, from the center of the clock, is drawn by the divine ruler dent the outer circle into parts de- reliability Even with this art of femininity three equinoctial in the gnomonic triangle to the south from pounds; and with this as a center the circle is drawn at divide equal parts, and divide the same number the equinoctial of the clock in the pun- will make a push, through which from the center of the clock two days will give a circle of three hundred divi- I will divide it proportionally. Pragmatism II. Selenium is written vertically. YLertical aftronomic juxta rules book handed down, as in the preceding Scia- It is a rare thing to be included in the world in I divide the parts like the division of a clock, so as he wished to be cast from here and there: and he would have ho-. . the watch of the Lunar. If then wrticde. the mere age of the moon m the outer limb, and hour iz. you turn the clock to it, the shadow of the moon will appear in the same the matter of the world is at the edge of the hour. Pragmatism III. In the equinox plane the clock Moon con to make "XJ Any equatorial plane hujuf-. . better suited to the methods of describing clocks, auinoBia- accommodative elt fc- durni clock to be used for most of the rest I would enjoy And so to order its fabric. Both the inner world and the outer world, this one then in o. day, that in hours equally divided; and the axis will be normal to the plane, Ity clock game Therefore, this clock I was not overwhelmed, and fit near the line am noon, so it will show the hours: No the mere age of the moon from the beginning of the circle, and being promoted to this world, and Itylus m the same world verfatili horario um The Lunar arm, as before, will show the hour not one day But this inconvenience. he has this clock, which is two hours it requires a crime; one hour later oftendct, the moon borealiaftgnapercurrent; the other below, the Moon of Autralia, per current Pragmatism IV. Delineate Selenia timetables using a different really UT the greatest things and discoveries of Va with such laudable aftronomy let us encourage Ledorc, another thing here we thought of the Selenians of the time of Sciathe- rich In the horizontal clock infcribantuf Circles to which you attach the names Rum tight lunch But according to the hourly lines ap put the numbers in the order in which the table who teaches; speak as in the preceding If I return, the Lunar clock will be unfaithful. He was first exposed to the rays of the Moon ribus: then see the age of the moon in limbo clock For if within this circle and wherever you go to the shadow of ftyh, he will be offended she tells you within the circle the age of the moon a tooth, an hour True as this let the business be done with less confusion, two here is the horology of A, which cre- the rising moon; the other B, which is decreasing the same, the hours will show. This is two hours the logs will be fitted, next to the magnetic needle Be it so for both: Itylus also uses it which, as in the former, will be oblique, and hence of finite size; whose shadow in either of the fituates first, as dixifupe- rius, of clocks, within circles of arrows, li and the hours corresponding to the lunar age will show Diffusion of imaginary numbers lariinduftria from a horizontal clock pra gmatia I. propofita has been uprooted. Pragmatism V. tAhter proceeding to put Seleniacus OIz8. horology in an oval shape so you will be disaffected; as Unula horologia re- or the lunar age; for example a group of ho- of the rare knots of the age of Monday: correcting, together with the order of the hours I am very happy; then circles ix. referring to the lunar age, They are spread out like an oval shape. If I were to say that the watch is in an oval shape I will give you a figure so that you can let them give to the hourly circles, to which iti preceding Iconifmo the age of Monday from the 1st day, and each ad we noted; you will have fifteen hours
Lunar, by which I give the hour of knots faster You will disappear from the lunar shadow V-g. This circle a rare Lunar, who is of age on Monday we have marked the top, together with the hours in the oval square, or any other shape will be drawn; let another circle do this rare Lunar Lunar age on day no tatus, and this and fic should proceed, and each ad Ggg circle XXI Iconism XXI m-semacimsiue the moon IVF so? A circle of the Lunar station: you will have sot Lunar horology is calculated, how many circles in they are contained in the proceeding two. These fic when you have drawn them, you will fortify them with fuoflylo; and the cannons of the Lunar around the center, together with determined by the number of the lunar age; you will have the 5th lunar hour, from which, which As we said a little while ago, it is very easy do not delay any hour, it is for the hour" She will demonstrate the log in nodte hour. to whom C'noMmca hyfico-aftrologkd, XtasLunae has been applied for the given time thread Thus the moon is the age of the 7th day from the conjunct acting fua, in that clock note those hours, whose first age was years rit no other But do these things They are more complicated than I can explain at length they are reborn: hence also for the betterment of all the declaration Iconifmus should be added we married So turn your pen to something else we are The hour of the night is otherwise uiVenireper ta bulamfequentern First, see what time the lunch hour is in any solar oft-clock gives You are looking for this hour on the front desk on the other side the age, or phalin of the Moon; the common area will give an hour of the night as well. days of lunar hours.
Hons delay light left horiz.
VfusLabeUae's delay Luning the light of the furnace the horizon How many hours does the moon fall at night? let the horizon shine, seek the first age tem of the moon in the column AB, and in the last co lumna CD, within the same numbers you will find the ferry during the daylight hours Nae Ctu the horizon; so you see age LunamnoCtulucere8. hours: setate hours; So about foreigners. Pragmatia VL The zodiac, and the declination of the moon to bring from the equator out of the demonflrant shadow. In the middle of this oval shape will be drawn, Declination Juxtacepta lib. delivered. Zodiac gnomonic together with the center of the epicycle Lu the nose; five, which is the same, with declensions of the parallels of the Sun. In this triangle, then a gnomonic lum folidus, next to the prece I was the heir of the Lunar Vertex, handed down elsewhere the shadow of the tree, which is the moon's shadow, is one with the declination which it has from the water, it will offend Prar Ggg z i i Ltr i
Pragmatism VII. Know that here the house, and the step, which in it D every mo nodturnopofdited within the Indian tropics cans, to write in a horizontal plane. The house ca- ]P Efcribantur juxta problema folio leflesinsd- cceleftes house, together with gra- iberiso duumpentadibusdecadibuque, as there you see that fa&um; addafque in fingulisdomi these are the qualities which the Moon has in them it communicates with the lower world, as I said above mus: and I would have perfected Sciachericum. In this the shadow of the gnome darkens the house, than at any moment he will desire. Pragmatism VIII. sAlmucantaras, Jymutha Knows here to write down the clock, that is, height and the distance of the shadow from the south to terminate From Zymutha, and Almucantaras Lunares, by no means divergent there from Azymuthis, and Almucantaris Solari bus He who therefore knows the reason your book fol. edoftus, the same here he writes with almost no business. I went to Almu- of the cantars, and of the solar azimuths Sciatherica defcripferit, oftendet in the same D in the night time heights, long the lunar fields Corollary. TTX is carried out here, on the lunar clock, which of the first movable doctrine lib. Q. difta they are, please adapt. True with her if they have a little smell of oil, I take refuge in them I was afraid to omit it. There are other benefits Lunar mints, some at Munife Rum, Appianus, and elsewhere you will find, with which viz the center of the perforated disk, and the two the rum of Urfaeminor in that place, where the rule
let them make the transfer, in an hour known to the urns then we will come through the toothed wheel the Decamorium affixed to the center of the former world. But when these things seem almost trivial, to them Miffis, noftra only found here to betray we wanted Problem Three fieUarnm fixed infpeSlion hour not to find out. Wherever the accounts of the Aftrolabior cal- Luerit, with almost no business in the garden fturnsc at any time notice will come; quorum ufus, applicationefquehocloco li I would have pronounced it too vulgar, and torn, in some way extraneous he would hold back the mounds inappropriately; when here Book VI Proteins Pdn HI. He gave us something else than a gnomonic one Let all the fruitful art of fciatheric be to demonstrate the extent of propofitum becomes In order, however, to give some example in this place let us also show about the hours of nodlurni be I can't find fixed laces; three multiple method, exact, compen- We wanted to teach Diofamhi, lest anything in with this Art of Light and Shadows" omifilTe to see the wall when Pragmatism I Hours of nofiurna this nyclofcopo invefiigare. A Take the aftrolabium, which in the Clock- n. "everything" Graph of magnetic properties the mouse, the height of any of the threads fixed to come to you. known, recorded in the network; and tip this thread fuo apply fuper Almucantaram ftellas found a little before: by which I made a rule by the position of the Sun in the Zodiac is in limbo the ram will be happy. Pragmatism II. At the same time, inflr ument through the tables at the end by calculating f Bfcrva in the first place which woman to whom threatening; then quasres afcenfio- let me return the cloth, and the sun at the time when you order the offering: Then be a store fcenfion ftelbe have been fewer hours of the sun, add them to the hours you will put down the smoke the day of obervation refi- will give two hours on Sunday from noon as well. If, however, there were fewer hours afcen- with the sun's wind, with the wind of the wind, you will draw them out a and he will give the rest at a fixed hour. Pragmatism III. The fabric of the new afironomic influence. ID I then went to bed in the night time to be dignified, and to be investigated for hours, a to no one yet, however, delivered. Yes but to order its fabric: Let first Xis was founded in BC, on elevation adapted to your mission, which becomes AC: then from this you will bring down the world XII. in Those who divide the wealth will be rich it matters Thirdly, to this another femiorbe FR infer that the rule in E, asquinophtial to be attached to the center, which are also one with the femiorbeRF, the center of the arm rotates E and put in the pulleys to strengthen it while; for it is about the inftar axis of the meridian a mobile and verfatile bishop. step by step I was a fool; from whose center K, the rule KG is drawn, which are exalted, or depreciated for decline he shaves the hem of the laces, trochle this too, let the work be established. Go here rum as if the ax is put on the fyftema of the aiicujus after if Horolabii no urns. afterifmihicappofiti( cujufmodi us Urfas majoris, Caftiopaeaj we drank) she indu- the second line, AB, coincides with the meridian mobile RF I would have had an injury perfect Vfus of the lowest of the new He would therefore know the hour of the night, corresponds to the equinoctial circle at I will divide the xquas parts, the axis C A to the right in E put in, direct to the depth of your water As Then one of the papers afterifmo- rum paper infcriptisf in which the mold. lace they should be pierced instead of the holes of the sheets become j unClis) infer the rule KG normally it in- duftria, utafterimu punClum AB midiuni only from the point K, the center of the semicircle KFR what is the diameter of the waist adfcripta of fterifini; Meridian also BC inafterifmo, five iconifmo fyderum femper the plane becomes the axis CEA. This was duly performed {repeating the intrument to the growth of the universe, so that the meridian CFR, the meridian, equi- of the world, and corresponds to the axis of the world. This is done by applying the eye to the cent trumK. , gira semicircle KFR, together with paper afterifmi the first, until one of the ftells
let it shine brighter through the hole; how and you will be caught soon after, E that moment of time in limbo dtiali will give the right hour, fi first diffe the rent of steps between the bed and the place You are converted into the hours of the sun. In addition, this with the help of the said clay, it would have been known by the ignorant of Aftronomy they drink, with their eyes fixed on K For Ix appears straight through the holes they will I will share this with countless others He has a mind in Aftronomia, which he to bring here, nor the narrowness of time, nor does the book allow growth; whence leave them to be further spent by the fagaci LeCtor who Eight icons were made from sheets of cloth of Chriftophorus Grinberger here Cfimus, of which the LeCtor easily rests afterifmorum ftruCfuram will be added. They are but the cloths of these afterifms should be swallowed by him not recorded in a paper cell, as an optician not by projection from the poles of the Zodiac, or by mun give fed from the center of fear, in which the eye is not after locating, and having first drilled with the rhyme of defcriptarum figures, them, not fecus and we will be able to look at the commanders. What a no one before Grinberer, hucufuue pns no. . J. j E RdtiO I did not believe that dirt had even been tried. For here Fparfa through the octave orb afta, aft of Bion some in clafles coleCta, their images rifmorHm- thus he painted on square papers, like cleftes they will become very close, and they will certainly be very close to each other they should be reweighted, like a paper image Ggg Great Book of Art set forth in the sky, and among the image of the sky, and the eye being closed in a definite place, the eye not ftellas difpofited on paper, fed ipfafmet it is supposed to look at faith fixed in heaven, and so that all the rays of the sun shine through the same let him live. Of those from after the end I hate only the principals here. Of which the flrudlur of the rest is easily in- Ledlori will be able to note the fagaci. Conflruttio Tabula for a new project ecdefti C And here the tables are broken. Let it be a word icons XXII. And Urfa minor: the first two should be drawn in a line to the redlos in A fefe slaying BC, DE, and A will be the vertex of the afterifmi, BC the meridian, B the upper part, C the lower part; and next to they smoke this line touching the table, as it were desired; DE but the vertical becomes primary, D is indeed finite flra, E the right side; F the pole of the Zodiac, Gpo- the game of the world, as in i. the figure is clear. hispophy tis la meet, you would like to infer; i Take the hemidiameter for size dine afterifmi, which becomes, for example, HI, the first figure, which is divided into a thousand equal parts you will be After this, z Take the board and see what is touching refpondeat fe of the first ftellae of Urfa minor then add the difference, and you will find C. Again, see what the tangent is to him to transfer the fecundity of the the line C represents the tangent below the line D It must be taken from him; to the lower letter E, marks the tangent of the right-hand turn E tem to be accepted. Take therefore the tangent of the former in fe- the diameter of Hlin iooo. partes divifai68 parts, and the same is transferred from A pile of vertices verfus C, verbi example inS: then adStranf- Verfam lead the normal, in which from St scrubbed farslU you will determine the tangent in the female parts for the diameter HI, for example in V, will be there a genuine fit of ailumpted lace. intrument and then it is returned to do lius, fiRSV, femidiame- three times as curfor quidani let the line be moved CB. For it is in the line BC to redefine the tan nations; In the RSV, however transfeverfarum diftantia- touching rum bit The inventor of this arti- ventor hu- the first to do so was P. Chri-fr- ftophorus Grienbergerus, who tables An gulars, which prophesied he calls a new diva, he founded: whose here are some for the afterifmos We wanted to set up a device. Declaration of iAJlerifmonm. TTTIafterifmi, founded with the help of Tangents are in the order that the length of the a treacherous demon in limbo
ftrent, the filoexFpole of the Zodiac through the center stretch out the lace; for this was soon in limbo It will demonstrate the quality of the fabric. Where indeed The pole of the Zodiac is not considered, but it was a thread pra two confimile steps in front, cal ftellse the length of the in all The rhymes are linear: A vertex afterif mi: BC meridian iconifmi, feu linea re diftantial gifts transfer line To whom the clay there is a line labeled half-diameter, which is the menfura of the depth of the plane, the fire of the paper from the eye If he trusted the records of the latter, he came but the length and width of the laces are fixed rum by P. Grinberger, a Catalan concoction gum, where great care is taken in Tabu He will detect the red flags. Table XV Horolablis noUurnh. Tabulaprv rffterifmu, feu nova profpeftiva ctdejii. URSxE MINORIS.
Diftantia refta. Diftantia tranfv. G M Tang. Ang.
Diitantia refta. Diftantia tranfv. M Tang. 'T G M Tang.
ATHAN ASII KIRCHERI From SOC. JESUS PRESBYTER GREAT ART LIGHT AND SHADOW. Book Seven Prometheus ANACAMPTIC ART, OR ASTRONOMY REFLECTED. With this secret of the heavens within the earthly dwellings of Prometheus, that is to say, they are concluded P R JE F a T (The human being, a certain veiled portion of the divine fire, while it is ardently burned, of no one Capable of rest, nothing is contrived; until at last the intent is fccpopitated. We in this with a weeping book, while we struggle against any arduous task, that is, we try to bring the cauldron down to the ground We try to enclose the immense volumes of the heavens within the gurgles of the earthly habitation; I have done a great deal I am bold, not to say reckless, we attack. I grasped, however, every difficulty, with obftaculi And through the obstacles of others, the envious conflagrations of the mind, we overcome by giving to God; Heaven is hidden within domorumrecejfluslaufimus: one thing seemed to be deftdered, that is, the soul. China, would be controlled by vital light Light, I say, Fire was lacking, at the end of which the whole machine would not immediately rite would remain inflruduofla, soulless; but when he brought him down from heaven, he was empowered by the human majesty the matter Therefore, driven by the internal fire, while we leave nothing unintended; Prometheus finally the fire flows from heaven, and many and various methods of bringing it down are ape. non-filial to the second illifion; nonftrygummore incantatory rhythms: fedpurijftmiflpetulculi portions, which soon aptly exposed to the Sun fast, flowing with a flurry of sunshine, and the sky overflowing with us, that in a moment so marvelously He insisted that all the laws of the heavens are not undeservedly inviolable. so that, therefore, the light overflows; book to him the name, Prometheus, was not incongruously muttered: P orro, although about a decade ago, on the Gnomonic Avenue, I saw the light from the Catoptrica; because however, the daily experience is more intrusive, when many more things are hidden around those reflected light I would find it easy; and moreover, in various places, here are the beginnings of my discoveries, but not the end and to the astonishment of the onlookers, brought to work by various craftsmen; Dion, all these things, when I had once more discovered the art of Anacampticus, for the common good of the public of light, especially with it, I would not in the least art notice the lucumbrsportion efie, to transmit it. You will therefore see in this book, moreover, that we have published elsewhere, many novelties, cujufl There are methods of linear reflection experiments, with which not only bright torches vibrated on the walls, fled and with whole lines projected by the reflected light, we present the slow motions. In which I became something prceftitifle it will be seen that the Prometheus DeoOpt. Max. I beg you to help me. The truth of your words we are born from the egg, T E%10 CHE LIBXI. triple radius j reflected and refracted, the whole opti- with the business, and to that extent the whole
The art of learning Magna Lucis, &Umbr be completed; pofl direct sun ray a ridge, which he therefore calls fciathericum we bathe, a fertile place to luxuriate in dam seems to obtain the radius five reflection: of which with the whole work, that Gnomonic CatOptric has long been we impreflame, inscribe, hand over river nil reflat, nifi, utnoviseandem in piling up the winds, the same in all the kind of ghosts, the secret of the forest let us demonstrate more slowly: let us draw a thread from the principles of art. define Anacamptius' Theory of Art, DEFINITIONS. Orpus luminofum is called all that I will be of light difficult Diaphanous, that accessible to light: Adiapha- whether dark, fire or light nor impervious is defined by Ariftotele. II. Light, light, &fplendor, diftinda they are It is called light, which shines in the heart it is a congenital pore. But the light is not hil is different from what can be relied on lit by the light, and through the diapha- whether the medium and the long difiufa Finally, the brightness is the light from the beast with a polished body. Sf- therefore, to the skin from the light is the light, from the light to the light not to be engendered by the splendor of the gods it is clear III. It is nothing but a body polish the polished parts of the body continuity, at the end of the ullapores, in equality, closeness, or division nis finfibilità; whence fpeculum ni He might be able to do something other than everything a polished body of art or nature unfaithful IV. The beam of light is not properly that make a line through which I may bring light it is said, whether they are real or imaginary; fed is light ipfum evibrato, feu restore the flow of light. V. The incident line is called that, juxta cu jus diredionem. fplendentis corpo a shining ray in a polished heart the pores are cut off It is called the line of reflection, near whose derision of the fimulacrum, feu the form of light in the fuperficia fpeculi matter taken, further due to the polished body peace, and the middle i1 A vior almost not being able to carry, to live, or something else the object was re-echoed he weeps VII. It is called the incidence of pundus a pound in which the incident line He fell into the trap of the devil: then there is a weight of reflection, by which the reflection of these forms to life, fire another object, it becomes a the weight of the incident. VIII. Perpendicular, the fire normal line it is said that from the weight of the incident doubtless perfect perfection it is at the corners. In the polished ve ro convex bodies, or conca force, the normality of this line, from the line a convex or concave polished heart touching the pores of the skin, ad which o t opfofc is erected, penfan- it gives The reflecting surface is called form containing the incident line, reflection, 8t perpendicular to a by the weight of the contingent by the ipfa fpeculi fuperficia. The incident line is called a line. which from the weight of the luminous body forms vifs, or from any other pound the lines incident to the plane fpeculifuperficiem normal; painted the reflection catheter is aligned is quoted, which from each of the lines reflexes pound to the plane of the fpeculi fuperfi led perpendicular to the sky: fu- but it is said that the incident will be completed which is terminated by the incident catheter, line, fire ray body light become XI The angle of incidence is called the angle he whom the cathet of the incident fub tends, or which line of incident together with a line which is common reflection of the interfacial surface, and ipfiusfeculi, caufat Angle ve He is the reflection of the cathe the tussle of reflection or whom line reflected with the line, which is of bending, cdnftituit XII. It is an incident triangle, which with Catheto fuo founds the body of the light ris incident ray; but a triangle It is a reflection of the same one He uses a catheter with a fume hood receptsforms, or radiofilaments I bounce back; but the hypotenuses of these feu fubtenfs united him with beards no weight of incident and reflection they run together XIII The line of reflection is a line, how long is the double triangle incised tooth, and is based on reflection. Poftulata. feu Petitiones TCT Atura does not enjoy anything, nor does it defi- cit in the dead. The radial line becomes a fertile line
you give fire, which is the same, the rays of which all the lights, and many cations of productive forms das lines are extended. III. By three quslib? t punda in fuperficia drawn by reflection, red line du cited Hhh A N j Artis ma+m Book VII. Part of Prometheus h ANACAMPTIC ART PART ONE ON THE NATURE OF REFLECTED LIGHT in the nature of the effects of things, CHAPTER I Of the creation of the world, and of its wonderful conjugation. He is the worldly man of the whole universe The fixed sun would not change, it would not go they would laugh at the effects of lower things dus, fedfemper, everywhere the same profuse fo more effective For certain earthly worlds parts to use perpetual darkness, so perpetually damned: they would be numbed by the cold; other suns the dwellings of the ever-incumbent aeflu some of the animals would be intolerable they would have faith in a certain way. Go rum, be the perpetually mobile sun under the same in the fourth circle from Ortu to Occafum tus, I was seized with vertigo; to all who give light to the inhabitants of the earthly world which he could bear; fed would not vary in each of them it is perpetual, but in others no, to some truly, to others inflated forever rejoicing: whence again the world perishes it would be wrong. If the ancient land of another presterorbiculare, figure, that is to say, which It would be wire, or triangular, all ditain the concordance would happen to the world. From here to a strange kind of strange confection of nature e(t, as the land is gathered into the fphasra zonartmfcos would receive the sun: the sun, however, is not fixed tl0 in one place, nor always in the same place parallel to Verfatilis, fed so far into Borea, &Auftrum at an interval on the other side that com how many universes are illuminated by it would be a matter of fate: indeed, the movement of the order nor such strange, envious concoctions, so wrong He holds a fragile strength like no other in the world a nation of fibi in the uncephalal heat or complain of the sun or of nature he puffs So the cold zone of the conflict chickens of one, two, three, four, or five that, or else I would be absent from all men that Menfius is repaid by the prasfentis; fub zo But the conflict was tempered as much as the day abbreviated in Irish time, only eof- he prolongs it with an asftivo. But under the belt hot all equal days, &nodiumvi- forte adminiftrates In which, be or he would cut through the laws of the county at least, in ma no doubt the highest of the lower world would lead to confusion. Hence This world is so expensive to pro portion of the Sun's brightness in the center of the world it was broken, so that neither the greater nor the lesser effepof- Tem nc$ becomes For if it is greater: the Sun is already at the hemiphas- greater nor the insufficiency of the earthly light to be illuminated I will give you, the omnipotent cold, perpetually born, as in the ninth book will be brought home fqualerent: indeed be smaller, the sun is already beyond, how equal it is by illuminating the earth, ma and in would lead So, then, everything is ready they are like the sun illuminating the earth, nor ca let the lore fail with fufficiency, nor with excefling art for effect CHAPTER II. Of the necessity of the reflected ray, even in the lower world. I author this earthly nature the mass of the dwelling, or in pu gill, or altogether into nothing would reduce man to the center of the earth or crushed somewhere outside of it, nothing anything, except that which is reflected paradox. The sun would create light in its own body, he would fantasize The same thing would happen if the Sun's rays were three times they should transfer the kidneys to the body without reflection. Radius therefore a reflection of both heat and degrees the same for each competent region it is a caufa. Let us first suppose nature in everything bus refus fub lines of short films to reach fuos, and in the book of this work pri This theorem is demonstrated from the proof. But the briefest of these lines is actually the solar gods, reflecting the incident And so much more effective, as much as ad they will take a more vertical line, elsewhere it's ftenfum Secondly, how big the body was He was kind and compassionate, so effective Cius Solare rays effeaptfus not feces and balls, which are so much more he felt, how much harder the body had been unharmed;
and so much heat from reflected rays to keep the caufats longer, as long as it was denfius; so that the fire grows stronger in the coals how Anacamptica heoria.
Ha. than in flame, in iron, and finally, than in fertapanf- coal. Thirdly, a full earthly body fcrmia pie-fpirits, and omnigenous female race the fetus of miftion, humor nowhere nonfcatere; indeed, everything from the Author naturally, when to the beauty of the universe, when to manifest the variety of things in the world I will arrange them. With these truths of the bodies of the sun, the moon, and the stars to each one of his own women I can light vehicle profis, finally it, how in the greatest wonder of this machine in the universe therefore we look upon the variety for two count Therefore, with these things, now, in what way do hteconinia in fublunary economy ufus Let us see if they are spread by reflected radiation. Lu I will not apply it to the harder body of the earth, denied transit, or in feiffum, or in the opposite a fixed part is reflected; from which fione, when the ray, which was at first hmplex, it is already doubled, but the infinite radius fint tel leaning back the gods are soon multiplied into an immensum; from but by multiplication, fire by condensation dioruaervehementlydifcinditur, difciffus stripped of moisture into the greatest rarity; QSt0m0ili: it goes away, and a great heat is produced. fK The air is greatly multiplied by this radiation he was struck with a blow, and set fire to the earth, which surrounds, makes a part of the heat, hccca- lyfada, which contains the moist evapo rat, quodflatuofum in breath diflipktuffl, and by the force of heat he exhaled the fubled; from but of vapors, and of breath terreftriu. nl eruption, of the greatest meteoroiogics The matter of impreffions is fudged: whence rain, hail, wind, etc. Go The pores are ringed, and the breath is melted together the hiddenness of things, a woman, as though all things were unknown rorum infublunari mundo prodigioforunl they are a caufa of effedus. Therefore live forever she, and -SsAaf, the fuuniverfal of things fub- the moon is covered by the reflected ray, the particulars of the pen should never be perfected let us convert CHAPTER III. T)e ray reflexofub zpna hot, ejufcpte effeBibus. T A human ingenuity it is compared to snow fenfuum minifterio ful then, he adfcifcats the fire to the fibi the experience of things, fa with great errors an absurd opinion he becomes a host to them. In many respects he is so perfect it seems to be contiguous, even to the first Lophophis, Ariftoteli, Democritus, Anaxago- rx, and other poles of these Chriflians, Ladantius, Origen, and others. For so many the proof of this is the knowledge of the world, so that even if the death of another we would have made a difference about this to glory in the knowledge imparted to him by God nu. i Ipfeenim He gave me things, which; they are, [a true tooth, as fet difpofition of the world, and virtues the beginning of the elements, and the confummHtion, vi- the seasons, the changes of the seasons, of the year smoke, linen; I was destitute of knowledge while the Philosopher was late, while he spoke about the nature of They wanted to be philosophes twice around the world, the tone zone is not in the ugly errors lapfos effes: in- the third and not the least, while the zone I will start the scorching heat of the Sun, with fiction burning, for men, for animals, for the plane tis orb effe opined Against whom modern experience dodi, found zo for the scorching is not so much acceflam, fed by the habitation of men cultif- fitfia, and the zones of all innumerable that of animals, and that of vegetables in various ways filled with nature to his son so confounded, that the contrary pro- by the fusion of the Vertical Sun, which blows he would like to bring us, the winter had come to them, that is the worst, and copious rains bring forth, from whose frequent, nearly daily lapfu zone, I will not say tor dry, fed the most humid co-nfti- protection is obtained. The sun, however, little by little declining from the top, the sun which, like us, winter should win, time fc- He brings the most snotty and temperamental. ItainLima Peruvias. degree width. au-
the sunny sun in May, June, August fto, the nearer to Europe is more remote from them; adfm! at which time I moved the sky of the Peruvians so bright and wild is he alive, that the givers of fate do not want to be surprised; then for in season neither rains fall, nor The snows are swept away, the rivers diminish tur, and some of them completely fixed they fail; But as he proceeded, he wanted a little more year, the Sun moves to T3, verticefn- that piercing, then snow, im and the force floods, the rivers increase there In the opposite zone of the Antceca Pa- Nama, the new Hifpania, give it to them in abundance hundreds experience the complete opposite: H h h for Jirtismagm Book VII. Part T of Prometheus for from the beginning of November until Apri the most peaceful leather, fereniffi- and they have a mother, that is, the Sun from above Declining especially in the Borealis; the rain but the time of the beginning of the smoke is in June, and so on to September; so much so that this perpetual re- The owl hoots: Under the great scorched zone to become cold and dry in the sun tooth from the top; and they shall return to the same you, the greatest and most abundant moisture from which humidity the heat also not so intolerable as some have thought they run: quodzona corufco Always reddened by the sun, and scorched by the fire; fed becomes the most temperate. Why then? the issue at the top of the hot zone humidity, recalcitrance, fub zone against the temperate I will be more receptive, more recalcitrant make a particularly moist confection why so many things in the whole sky from the Europeans different variety in animals, plan tis, it produces minerals, it must be explained, first prefaced by this demonstration. When, therefore, the sun was burning in the hot zone to any vertical normal position in the mere on the day of the flood it will strike the earth and the ocean, and for a long time the multiplication twisted into feiffum let not the huge fua fill the air from all sides, of all the powerful additions let him make the most efficient and effective dung, kill him it is And the most powerful adlion is huge that monstrous change of things, which they are contemplated by the hot zone it is cephalorized; on this account: for the earth with pre-heated ambient air the land and the sea are vast with their intimate sustenances which elicits a supply of vapors of the breath; whose experience teaches us the truth of the matter arteftiHaticiadefumptum, in which, how much The more powerful the fire, the more abundant it will be the herbs put in the alembic will emit a pore. He therefore elicited this powerful ray, eti am a little space of time, vapors, hali and your supply, when it is cold the matter of the air is raised to the region, as if it were outside the matter I bent the beam, I say, anacampti- camjam conftitutos, sftuquefenfim defici He does not want to consume them so quickly gradually thickened and refined in im bres copiofiflimosfundi it is necessary Which a&io with daily whole near menle hard, it becomes that all the field is too moist let them be filled, the rivers overflow, the roads im the animals are carried on foot by plains to Mt let them receive the tana fe; corp or ra of both animating as a vegetable, it was made moist they receive protection; the leaves of the trees usually too dilated from the natural form they spin; by the word, all things are changed. Ready rea with breaths, vapors, and femininity um mifcella of reasons excited, the air va- Clir unu the fetus of a married woman will be pregnant, reru varie- it is done that these things are hot and humid, V-t the whole room was separated from the rest of the table produce variety. From here he went out of hiding of mixed women, and lon ge widely together with the re-filtered vapors the mifcella of the fperforum, the matter of the monftrificarum rum in the worms tis population, how fub difta zone all foreigners will look with wonder, nafci- there Hence the most vehement Solisarftu tree things percuflte in oils, balms, and various re- The types of fins are refined. Animals brought from Europe to the said countries, thus de they breed, so that they are scarcely worthy to see any more tur: out of the air also various, and diversif im- preffionibusvitiato, unfitness, and exoticism bodies are infected with diseases and infirmities bus All this, as I have said, was caused by those various things
whether they were caught, and scattered in the air they obtain the origin of the accumulation. Further to the Sun declining at the top, and decreasing in number, stick to the confection. Ve let us explain the rum dicfta a little more fully. Let it be of the earth ICK's body L, burn zone give ACB, So issue of motion bliquus from D tropical, to F through the tropics xquinodfia- lem E. Sole it is at a height in the tropics of D. or F in A, &Bfub- the norm liter flat due to the balance eye in the flow will arouse the most powerful heat: thence violent rains: the ray veroDC tropic then obliquely to the equator riet, where &juxtareflexion angle DCE a lesser heat, consequently dimi- it will cause the idea of rains; but fub oppo- fub yona tropic B, a much smaller ca- torrid lorem, near the angle of DBS reflection, ob- mettka. it will make the heat warmer; whence he concluded quenter something from the neighboring fibi tempered pla gay nature will participate; that is, the cold more intense, and I would always be so intense the heat, or the cooler, as much as the sun is away it was more distant from the inhabitants. Of which fane the wonderful vagaries of nature tArtls Amcam. pt ce Theory fianc the torrid zone, as much as possible between Vaftifllmos concludes the oceans, or even and the inland regions with the lakes rivers of the whole world ways in America de las Amazonas, Marag- no, the river St. Martha? , delaPlata; In Aph rub, the Nile, Niger, Zaire, Cuama are rich live let not the earth be moist, or the matter rain exhausted by the force of the rising sun there Against the sun he also faced the fpices the swiftest movement of the sun and a continuous day of almost twelve hours em, and a knot, with which he roasted in the air during the day cold, nocturnal, copious dew it would be tempered by fufion, from whose temper the equality zone too, surprisingly, how much it is tempered and deleted. Not even I would have given, however, a scorching zone for many people in places of a very different nature; elsewhere for the humid air, in one place freezing with cold, in another touching with intense heat: of which indeed there is no other root of the matter, nifl diverfafubjedifo- nature, the difpofltion of the mountains, and the winds dominion: of which there is nothing in the world in the basement, where the caufas you will perish Whereupon it happens that Solfub's scorching zone fub- most indefatigable, and far more penetrable, when he went to Europe on a canine day rum yet he went here to the lightest shade, or easily shielded with a cover as fub flra- mine, or j unce dwelling much safer and the fecuriuf, which you are here in Rome, every care was taken in the rooms be settled Why is the fub zone so hot? no Don't you think it's hot? Why in the mountains? j ugs among the middle heaps of snow intolerable- Are they almost burned by thousands? Why in 'TtkuU- Collao province is also a weak shadow it is cold, and from the Sun there is so much air in the immediate vicinity the pain Where the coast of the Peruvian province is con- corm' the end is so fabulous and glorious, a man in a strange manner curci- vitatesPlata, and Potofi, under the same climate stuffed? she, however, was happy, temperate, and fertile; hmc all appera, rigofa, gifera flt. CHAPTER IV. Of the ray reflected by the temperate zone, and the effect of it. na temperata rotum that fpa- it is within the tropics and circles ardic, &antardic henfum that was made with another liabe, as being outside the goals and limits of Solia confettitus, you also difpar to those, about whom: We have said in the previous chapter that the effedus is the cause. Yes therefore the Tphaera of the world DGEF oblique, requa tor HI, tropic BL, KM, axis GE; zone theme completed BC; the rays of the Sun N, which obliquely ince teeth in BCIpacium land? , reverberabun tur in O. Since then the rays are not in feiffos they were fed in the opposite direction; ca lor, too, will not be so strong, nor tan it will have such a power of exciting the humours, that hot zone fub; and heat is thus produced there, when the Sun sends infinite rays in the fpa- BC, that is to say, as many as in the fuperficia BC pundatangit; it is made, as it were, out of clay the reflected rays will kill the brain
the rays of the sun; from which there are infinite triangles emerge, where? we are here from the color juwmiaap- let's drive for under these the multiplication of ca-qnid takes place loris, so that it becomes so intense, as much the triangle was sharper at the vertex A, and the sides of the normal line? closer, so much so re- the thicker the angle of the triangle A duller, and the sides were towards the horizon more inclined of any kind here is BAC In which you see the rays of the sun teeth, while from the rays of the sun they are made The force that ca the straps of the carriage neighbors of mind air flow not to increase, a great deal The sun is in v3, but the rest is in qo conftituto. Or let's smoke a pound from noon, ride a liar also in A, than in B, H hh rise. virtis Magrn Liber FI l. Prometheus Part I the rising, and the heat to be raised. Like for ri fefe has the heat of the Sun in to the heat the matter of the Sun in qo, thus the heat of the sun's meridian the heat of the sun in the east, and in the west; when in both caumatic triangles with these, 8c covered with reflected rays, heat the matter for a fair proportion of the fupra horizoli let them increase and multiply, so also Solein Miracdlork 25conftituto south triangle caumati- iSTJL with flt ABC; in a H BDC; in y w um, di BEC; in ai T BFC; in LT GC; in tmsor' fine BIC. For hours 'm of the day, it will be compared in this way, like a triangle at noon on the fitB AC: hour II. Let the triangle BDC be; at o'clock X. BEC; o'clock BFC o'clock VIII. BGC; 5th 7th hour BHC; o'clock denb that BHC But the same is also to be trusted it can live in different climates, so that it can be used climate, for example, the sun will blow in let the gnomonic tiangulum BAC, fub fe- ptimoBDC, fub o&avo BEC, fub nono BFCfub the tenth BGC, fub the eleventh BHC; the twelfth fub finally becomes BIC, Qutequb even if he is deeply introverted, he will not bie new fibi gate to degrees of heat through to develop the doctrine of triangles he will see it finished. For variety, therefore, trian caumatic throats, diverged also degrees of heat in the oblique horizons they are drunk with confection. Hence the great climate as well as in the variety of things produced We will examine a little later. CHAPTER V On the reflected ray of the Sun, the sun is cold, fi Ve fub dfb. tr a obliquejfimd. It is called a cold wave by geographers that space within the poles it is contained in circles, in which Sol the longest day makes the femper greater twenty-four hours, and each to the ipfu the light, the fub which the day of the femeftre For the Sun is the Yingredient, the horizon of that the nose begins, and the proof of light lasts, until he died. gida, because of the solar radiation weakens theme For there are triangles of reflection ca very dull mother; no dullness exhausted by the heat of the table, it is finished: nifi the solar rays are the weakness of many in the morning the sun sets the horizon he fantasizes; this zone, as being rigid in To see a tolerable, greedy nature pofuifle there A certain nature therefore admirable; with it was given to the son to persevere in rigor mum. whom the dull ray did not pierce she will be satisfied, she is perpetual of many menfis from the sun, the sun's horizon would be delayed, the fupra bori- and perdomaret. From the kingdom of hell, then a bridge beyond the horizon, under which I am He was drowning in weakness, while the rising Sun was recovering heat fub montofos heaps of accumulated snow ona frigid jn glacial Alps eredfa seas, rivers, the mountains, in a word, the whole earth, the Hyperboreans with the tyranny of rigor he looks upon the fubjefta of office I was not oblivious to the rigor of my enemy soon emerging into the atrocious meadow, snow and ice Nature: lu- rjs to adore the sharpest arrows there, with a huge upturned conflict, the rigor of the right I was more obstinate with pratenfion, at last perpetuum with your same leaning Sun by summons the viftusman is forced to give; whom also conjunfHs with the forces of Taurus from one ex the rise of the menfe completely dffipated together with the ni- force, and orders to turn the foal with ice, the thief of the earth, restored to liberty. Further I am more powerful than the twins who have joined the fire
the ugly earth was freed from the suffocating moisture the greatest luxuriance of grasses and herbs imbued to the rest, in fine, in two menfis Having completed his dominion over the land, he also brings forth a bundle of various crops, until np the neighbor, and already like a feneffa overburdened, with fatigued strength, again fepulturaephemeftri is commanded. The sun then parallel fspheres from Y to V snows, ice and diflolven da laborat: aV ufque ad xtinterfaexficcanda busy, the same in grasses, and herbs; from n, to two menfs in the ripening of the crops he smokes; with the rest of the verofpacio itp so much; I died in front of the horizon, how far the underworld really is he asks, for all things, to the priest of Iqualo- return matter So you see it's amazing nature; the light of the industria is so equal to the tray distributing everywhere, as that ray, which never beyond the twenty-third degree at half past the horizon at this point he was relieved, he would not win, he persisted in persevering would win For when the triangle when it is reflected there it becomes most obtuse, it could not be done, so as to so much and the horror of diffidence would be fuffied, nifi that long delay gradually reflected the heat I will not let a little bit of a swagger, and I will hold it firm and multiply. Let fsphere be parallel ABC, the equator, and the horizon fimulBC, the poles of the world AC, the Sun in the tropics DE; where the circle by cutting the horizon a cone of radiation mat triangles Caumatic f. tbrpsna cold Anacamptic art mat D AE, and the angle with the horizon the incident, then the reflex, is based on DAK, E AL we radiophosFAG, HAI, the horizon the face fell near the angles of the declination Theory, t nis di5lor fignos, until the water covering five horizons, not a wide cone us, the fed line meets the horizon. For the wind of the sun rises, even if it is a triangle, as I said, the caumatic forms a very obtuse heat; because, however, it is constantly pressing the earth, it becomes as at last the fub act of fqualor abunaantiffima grass indeed, and the air but he should not produce snow in two menfis, per Julius, to wit, and during Augultus: which heat I would call watery heat, which the Sun in the noon of the first degree here It makes Rome. So the three princes were defeated the nature and composition of the pallium not now what is the reflection of the light fub molds Let's see if it has a special feature. C A P U T VI. f) e efficiency of reflection about the change of air, about plants, animals, fub Jcilicet five onis. U B fplncra refla, five hot zone, powerful mother a little bit of light let's try too He was caught in a vapour from the rum of those cited, who with unequal speed a In The rains washed the air with a hot temperature rant: almost complete silence fem hardens, moistened with air con- vegetation, the vegetables are abundantly luxuriant, they are burdened with humor; and even a boring body ra, until the Sun is or closer, already trian It forms a caumatic appetite, from a normal nature the light gradually went away into the triangle, And thus it induces ferocity and fictitiousness. In contrast to this normal potential is placed from the diameter of the fub tangent to the pole, fi and the radiation of all things parallel to the horizon most of the weak; rata, when the caumatic triangles grow in sharp, the more sharp they become The sun was nearer to the summit: whence who then the degree of heat diverges with the approach emerge, which are carried out by natural re- zonamri fub the same zone of provenance give different packages. Eline animals zone: temperature nama: tte propria, fub scorched with discolouration, form they degenerate, ovesgibbefcunt, bald ca birds change their colors, and innumerable lia, queexperienlia of modern times He taught the rum. Under the cold, most animals which by excessive moisture, and by dilating cold the greatest amount of swelling from the color ta: zomn proper temperature, fub zonator- laugh planted: so they acquire a different co. ftitution, vt from hardly any more dignity tur, -mostly in the laciniofa of the leaves degenerating aromatic ram what I got
ranting in some cases only from the plague they conceive horror, as impatient leaves they prefer to die, than to flow from it. Under zonafrigU zonafrigida omnifoliorum breeding Protrit luxuriant with the moisture he watered, so that he drank my deer, and the prunifimiief trees there planted: faith, Nummularis, how um they call it Friday. Fabaginis Nym- phres acquire temperament. Man nes fub zone scorched by perpetual change lest, in addition, violence is thus rendered incli of various nations, so that the whole world diverged from the Euro let the poor be ashamed; so much so that they flowed deceptive, mobile, ferocious, lustful, ned any praise for intelligence, fortitude, fortitude recommended, or even the greatest culture you will find more than a variety of them used particular local confections, nature promotes Under the cold zone ho the whole diameter of the threat is difficult to face they are obtained by means of and rife in the weather, as most of the flowers, in proud, slow, shy, cold, dull-witted dung, and to be addressed, are incompetent, so much so that he is so strong. Media but the zone would also be difpar, the better men a more moderate complexion are strengthened, as fufius in Chromocritica no- we have demonstrated I was also fruitful certain degrees; so as to be better, more perfect that jlrdsmagm Book VI. that the temperature of heat and cold, fi a the thirty-fifth degree of latitude, and each ad the fifty-fifth more perfectly, how much less to hasten nearer; so much greater in- They contract the temperature in everything, as much to the hot cold zone on both sides; ma he sped up. Since then the whole of Europe has A large part of Afiac's zones are secured to this It is not surprising, since the greatest ones were founded by the world Heroes, conquests, and inventions the glory both of Monarchies, and of things of the torches, to be celebrated with all the torches, hence the proceflifle. This human race ca put Chriftus wanted to embrace, fub this pri but of faith, and of religion, of both Ecclesiastes the foundations were laid, and they soon grew up depth, and vaftity, to learn about it it is said of the Prophet: Extending the water in the waters lon his branches, each to the last ends its offshoots of the sea. But more about the Hysalibi. I have made an artay with which to experiment transplants of arable plants, other and all things are presented. which are clear to all, degrees of heat alter the plant in such a way as to propel it }hra txhe fus of another fspecie do. Yes, experience tmnfpian- has been discovered, Cinnamon from India al- wide in Italy, and in Europe with a suitable plan h er tarum tatumj [n The laurel is destroyed by lack of heat rate fane Laurel some Cinnamon ve- to contain moisture in le, ipfe odor, Solarifque strength, and the aromatics with which it is imbued, the fate fu and declares In Luftania, too, Pi by women, and by the careful cultivation of adhi bitten, at last settled in the ivy nerafle, I have reported from eyewitnesses; which I shall not seem to him to be far removed from the truth there, who guarded the strength of the ivy, acrimony, form of berries, use leaves add the properties of the pepper rite We know Perfea in Arabia, Perfi of, the ability to delete; hicfuavifllmifefa the pores provide nourishment. Arumcontrain Euope, because of the ferocity of the rodent dam efle ufui foolish, in zfgyptofuavifli- eat a kind of vegetable. Nut myrifticafub resulting in a scorched zone, transplanted into Europe into the caftan plant fc was discovered by the Lufitan doctors. Cy- prefllis in the northern regions, or he will be entirely refuir to grow up, or diligent the culture of the veins has turned her into something like Savina It is known to narrate. I said in a suitable manner; ra ws' not for this kind of fpccies plant they are bound to come from both; fed in folio to him after appropriating So in Italy Laurus the same it is that in Zeilan they grow cinnamon; Ivy, indeed, that cooks in India Pepper. In Livoma Savina, or Cypreflus hortenfis r. Prometheus part I the same with Cypress, for there are certain things give a vein: through the universal earth of God, Whichever one knows, he is without doubt a plan
you can produce ejuf- I spiced it with aromatic herbs, which He was drunk by the Indians, and of sufficient color deficient in the perfection of nature's endowments they would fail. Of course, those who use turpentine larch noftrates with plants, from which in the West Indies they flow forth with a babble, rite he will see them in the same place fpecies; fed in India as a native foal in to degenerate a nobler character. Same thing Acacia, feu Dragacantha should be said, which fub temperate zone Gummi vs. Arabi when, in the new Hifpania Balfamus white, or that mischievous gum that Tac- mac, they call, they bring forth. Nor is this hidden metamorphofls, or in different climates: for herbs, which in Italy and Germany for come, they are very different. Hyfto- pus, Abrotanus, which Germaniagra- they smell of tiflimi backs are found. Against Ocymus here in the Italy is the most beautiful, and the most fragrant, in ItalhX- Germaniaobtufiorls of smell is found. Know the sweetest of the sweet-smelling mice in Italy you will eat it, and you will eat it in no time utilitarianism, such as pumpkins, beans; in Germany pigs, kin and goats for fodder to leave Innumerable of this flour here ad to lead the people, let them be known to all I would believe Caeomniafuam from Aftinobo anacamptic lifmo, reflected by five radiations, they get their origin; for these things near for each zone, region, and climate appropriate, &neceflariat fuppeditant: which are so true, and evident, vtvelip- the nature of the highest mountains of Europe m three zones repreeientanone lulilie let's see One becomes the inftar of all Tftna, the mountains, in which every kind of tribe is proper to the spheres herbs are found: a plane around the root A hot and humid mountain, Amomum Cashew, Malabath, Mufam Aco rum plants characteristic of the torrid zone rendo: about the middle of the mountain of every gene competent rice plants of the temperate zone producing: around the top a loofum, full of fruits, fqual, cold while, the wind blows, those herbs which are cold the plagues proliferate, producing; dotesp zone it was cold; with that profuse reason let the ray be reflected to the mountains, verpM. temperate, cold, nature produces plants In the plains, the fire is burning hot they come out with a large, cheerful face, stem bulging, smooth, leafy, fleshy fruit fo: around the middle of the mountains a clear stem, left tArtis Anacampdcte Theory. hevi, tereti; angular, obfequiofoque, folio numerous, and round, lacinated with foliage, Nervous, hairy, with a large root, and scent beasts, with more vegetative powers. At the very top planter exilifpecie, as being brought in by cold nervous stem, hairy, angular leaf, diff ferta, laciniata, hifpida, ftrigofa, trifti, contorta, fpinofa, fru&u infipido, ex-5
of color, they should come from the strength of the army. Vi therefore let the mountains grow, to fasten; for plains, hills, and valleys together they change the light, and what is the warmth of the heavens they are in reason, the phlegm is blunt, sedum; dry, as reflected by the ray are affected, to moisten. CHAPTER VII. T)e root of the change of things in the climate of Afoerjis land. ON we are talking about specifics here qualities uniufcujufque pla- tte, fedde the first, or fruitful, SsJquas transfplantation acqui rant: for these are more and less hot, and with the moist and castrate qualities of the leaf in which come forth, come forth, he knew, who as much as the change of places, in the change he has penetrated Try it out I declare the news. Transplantation experiments. A Take any kind of herb, of course the grace of Ocymus, and it divers places plants, for example in dry places, end care, n egle&am, then the other in do- he took care of the garden of Angular, and continued to go cultivated by irrigation: and you will discover the manifestation the same difference in smell, and by fire: no, that in arid places is a sharp guffaw or, and warmer, that by which worship, and watering he suffered, it will be found, so that it is the third calo ris step, he hardly sees the first attigiffe
tur: for the heath is cultivated by frequent irrigation the force of the river is overwhelmed by what, that in dry places planted, with all-too-fluid moisture after expiring, he grows old with natural content. the latter in other plants, which are in different places moist, wet, dry, aftuofisplantar, it happens: whence also the fylveftres of grass diftasob caufasin very effective medicine They are faster than the horticulturalists, for they are cultivated elsewhere how much they deviate from their native character. This is not only true of plants, 8c vegetables, fed &in animals- Hence such a difference between dorheftica, &fylve- I also used the same fpecies. It is delivered by Herre- mumo. ra, in America the animal that I first sent affuefeat the air with the voluers; then what animal the nature of the drupes affurnefe, wings on the feet or degenerate anteriors; as long as to commit the fall of the sea; tan let him go deep into the beast, the fire of the monftrum ma to transform the kidney At least the urinals who, from their youth, are drowned in the waters, hu as usual the organs of respiration are thus perpetual they are transformed, so that they differ little from their ancestors pent Read what about Pifce Cola, and elsewhere, here They report the natural flourishing, and of Colailacus the inhabitants of the said Herrera. True since we have done so in some ways Chromocritica, I didn't want to go on here longer. CHAPTER VIII. 'De Lineadelionishuminope, ejufquetermino, quantity of heat. Into it we call it nofre in this place Kmm IiSWfc13N7(! i r t. rr r her, why radiofredinufi onis adlion ends give me some water cimus, linesex radius in incident, reflected com- of appetites, and he would be able to be fruitful three times to dye or for the line reflected by the sharks line incident, then obftaculum, five anacampic medium necefla object rio linere adlioni will take over: as fi line a&ionisfit AC, will be the object of an anacampti- A V B S C when in B, the radius ex B, reflected in A as large j t will be, how much AB dimi the length of the line I will try this I confirm that. It is placed in A candle, whose I i i by fraH Reason why line nis aqttetur cx line in by accident ttjlexa
jlrdsmagm Uber VIl Prometheus Part diffused light through the nose B, in Culti let the least natural thing fail. What will happen just go back until the light is completely ob- darkens Then the hole B is brought a very small piece of fpeculi, note twice the light reflected in the mass A, as a ray reduced to C, to be darkened at equal intervals. Yes but the fertile line reflected was smaller in- A I S C falling, then a flash dion's conditueturut in S; and there will be a line reflection Si, equal to SC: what you will experience, let the light enter through the hole S inC, and the same light in the conflicting mirror, re you have covered the bend in for you will see where I will add, that peace will decrease to nothing to go away Thirdly, the fi line has been reflected I A V C then the object The optic nerve will collide on this side of the middle state line; addition, as in V 6th line of re-reading incident AV, quan VC title You will find the truth of the matter through the hole V the light is transfmiffed into C, and the same exfpeculo in V. you have covered the part of the thread reflected back; for both are great and bright you will find yourself And this experiment by true ed, id ed, radius five to the corners redos, five oblique cuts in the fpeculum, femp er the incident line, and the reflected fi- The mullet will match the entire line of the adion. Live experience, let's see the reason. No there were no people who could say that the light was an object of the heart the dark pore is forbidden to become illuflrius, feu hindered by abextenfion to contribute fe to in- holding, by compensating the quafi in its proper place fubjedo, to pour into another he could not; and every thing they report True when there is no light as it is addressed to the immaterial, neither however, it is possible to plot his destruction it is done; the light is not meant to be hidden, the mud of the opposite they call him pale; fed by rays from an opaque body repercuffis, a neighbor of the middle class brightens the level For what I have said mum should have been given in the middle forgetting the opaque in fe reciprocating, dbi ip-
fi spends; and it was done by accident, not really by faith, prohibited from further progress mind is intended. Therefore it is clear from didis, line I composed it from reflection and incident feed equal to the whole line; addition But when I began all these things from the borders tion, and the failure of things depend, little I took it to be exadiuseadeferende. A great ed among the Philosophers on Nature within the bounds of their powers, and their limits of those who begin and define troverfia; of quorum from different po by the usurpation of your names, rather than the real thing lead to the origin Mihifane that femper pla cooked, to begin with all the boundaries, and to be finished, let them trust five, flow with five motions: matter! fg for the first and the worst to each, that or the whole thing, or a part of it, or something inviolable: but none of these extrinfecumj ure could be said, when everything in repainting; therefore you have entered everything they arise and define them. True We do not do this in the future, when it is established the light in the whole world will rise, 8c to kill. Rurfps creates light adivi- to be limited by a small term, fi Let us speak of indivisible intensification; Fed nor let us betray this. But we say lu but he did not fub at any point of intensity to come out with the force of the leaves, fed eat the liquid beyond the border of smallness which is not allowed to proceed by dividing it on this side destruction; who was also the youngest It is not incongruous to call it rare. But if ma- joriluminialiud less is added, quan even if it becomes a little swollen, there is nothing to prevent this from happening to him with help it may be fused, provided that it is on both sides the hair should reach a minimum of natural hair. Ed further htec not the weakness of trusting just these qualities, which are lesser, ma they admit diversity, but also orphan bodies, which; vary in size riant, common; for this is for some purpose bulk, small; excellence in some end; degree They do not desire to avenge the destruction of the foes, anymore for the weakened forces collapse into nothingness faith perishes without intervening on the contrary, fedfolius menfurte fedu, which; for the protection of each of them, as it were, would be necessary condition, exposed by the unbreakable law of nature there And the snow will eat like this, all the light the profusio would be infinitely extended, which it rejects nat, as will be seen in the fertile a ray propagated by a luminous body and to the least natural, we line I will say to us, that is, the radio waves of diffusion the term: for this fruitful line lu a diffused mind languishes, and fails uniform deformity, not fertile Luxunifir- arithmetic, fed geometric proportion it is spread unevenly, by the sharks, that is, by the fishes. bus, five proportional decreases. That I hate so much; when he builds up from all that axiom, every effect of fua caufe pro- you must eat portioned, certain ed, him with her, a prodigy of prowess never equaled eat chicken; fed femper so much smaller how much it is drunk, when it is far away from the leaven te fpacii, by which it produces an addition, is returned weaker Accordingly, fi by equal fpa- ciaadio will be divided, effedus decrease the origin of the agent's weakness will lead Anacamptio's theory of art.
will lead therefore, how much weaker this is, so much more il I am relieved; not fertile squalor fed for rate agent poteftate. For example fi light, whose power by given fpa- cium diffunditfuidimidium dicoilludiu- to threaten to bring forth peace through a shark I was also half-hearted so eff&us ad effedhim fi enim lu menare by a given fpace a greater light which would produce, to illuminate something else as well Gefm ipfiquaie more light would eat through the same quam quarefimul jundta effe&um they would propagate half and the greater of each: therefore they will make these duoluminaries together with the men bus more powerful than light xi. by faith It grows light in the agent is something false. But two things luminanaut fimul agents effetum eat composed of both affections, from this it is clear that faith has a virtue of its part, so the power of the whole to the light of the whole; but the sharks The virtue of the lights is the shark, and the virtue of the shark
a dispute begets a shark; then two threats and powers, and effie&u to one luminary that they become equal; editlumen as at the same interval lumft nare eat which twins eat light ur From which it is clearly evident, the light of the shark bus Ipaciis, decide to decrease proportionally of the mind, which was to be demonstrated. CHAPTER XI. Tc by the multiplication of the heat of the reflected light with the incident miftura. It is a stretch in the book of faith cundo, the first part, ex the fifth experiment, and fe- xtofol. make a difference mina united next to the light whether the number is many to fold Let there be three torches luminaFGH, pertria fo branches ABC, inside the hollow cylinder in one circle in DE, projected. I say lu men ED, three times as much light as the cone ra- diofiDLA, IBK, EKC, quifqueper fe effi ciunt: namficuti fefehabet ad thus light in the radial triangle DLE, from three cones radiofis composite to the cone KEC, or Multiply DLA: and multiply to so luxLKE, or DLI, from the two hills radiofis DIA, BLI com pofita, to DI A, or EKC, from the cone of fimplicus composed Again, as to so light DLE to the DLI, or ELK fragments; but the former ratio that is a triple fecundity, a double fecundity, a third fefquiah tera: therefore the light is concentrated near the multitude even a lamp; if I wish, whatever let the shark's throat be separated from the holes and then he ate a lot of sharks cones; for thus the common con- the curfus will have faith in the light to any one of them rum, as the number of all the cones to one state At this point I relied on the magic of the noftra Catoptrics are surprised by the intense light from fpe- with the reflexes of multiplication, of intensification we are excited Let's see how it works Id I give stool Manna Book Trometheus of Tarsus give fruitful rays reflected light, dc confe how much heat is concentrated in the triangles mats Let it therefore be entered. figure P Sol, whose one end ray from PinN falls on the fuperficium lands, and the other in O, oppofi- then a pound in the ground? and the gods radiated into the middle part of the earth; It is certain that from this adinobolifmo, by the radiation of fire, the ray PN, from N in A, and the rest finished in the same a part from which radiation they so fall than the reflection of the rays rio arises the triangle NLO, which triangu when light is composed of double radiation made, to use the light, so the heat he will intend, as from the proceeding it was evident by experiment; and there will be light and the more intense the heat, the greater the triangle it was sharper at and so much it is sharper, as it is directed to B in the first figure He brought it closer to normal, where reflection caumatic triangle the rallelogram will degenerate, and hence much more than in the NLO triangle He will focus on the heat, so that the fub zone becomes scorched we said And the further the light was from B rit, this NLO is a caumatic triangle it will make the throat duller about how much but it was duller, so much more refined ca the network will continue until it is in the fuppolar plane Tiim. tU triangle again, as is evident in this figure, in optimize the parallelogram degenerate solar ra- condition
diation; atfmeeffedu, or intensity of heat not, when the radiation is oblique to the earth, no nifl strike through the contadu. From which it is inferred also, the sharper the triangle nacampicum, would intensify the heat so much oration: for the sharper it was, the more it fell it illuminates the greater part of the air; femme but so much the smaller, the more obtuse us, and the dull heat to obtain, as is clear from the didis. From here a certain easy method occurs ca measure the degree in each triangle to detect optically, that is to say, inge no Let the triangles BOC, DOE, IOM, NOG, Since then the heat of the sun so much more does the femur degenerate, as far as He would be more recuperative, they would refer to the dida triangles of heat intensify, remiflio- none of the Angles degrees of the Climate, so that they dem becomes the proportion of remiflion, mtenfio- nis heat which becomes the strings of the caumatic or the throat of the other triangle string or better yet whether the same proportion of complement; so
fub aquaratore the last degree of heat fe ha bet to the last intensifion, as A finus ver- I was very happy. O. akin to the completion of the same this is at the end of the whole, the fire of the ray AO. For the sun, as long as it turns back into the sky, does not conum, as in other times and places, fed a fimlic line reflected in the fiffa, fi ve, let us measure the width of the radiation, cy- lindraceum quid, whose middle line, feua- xis represents the end of the whole in a predatory figure. Again the Sun, declining from A to B, makes ra long reflex from O, in C, the triangle, whose bafisBC, making a whole ray of string makes the end verfum A, complement his Oh; I mean to have a decrease of heat, as a fine verfus A complete to the end of the same mind O so that A, the parts of a trigon cold: Oh, they will depict heat; so you will see proportional to a certain heat decrement tumproSolis defcenfu, or elevationuf- that I go degree in which all the energy of heat is lost bound in a pound O, and the force of the cold strengthened by a radius, five end all AO, which takes place in the Fupolari region, where the Sun is water the horizon is not by any triangle, or by a radiating cone rit, fed a line tangent to the radius of its term nature Further, fi pund A, fub equino- dial for string grad. let's dance we shall have there not the slightest degree of cold, you did not cut any string of the triangle. when he was lying down; from this true weight chord fenfim decrefcensufque adXY, bi no heat, fed cold all the heat will be removed. To the heat therefore gra dus fub given at any height of the Sun at ca lores zone torids compared zA) tis Anacamptica hours. dos, let it be that A, to AO, etc. g. related spring the shaft with which the string is drawn by making a triangle he accomplishes, to the end of its completion. True as one fynopfi the whole operation to look at, here we attach a table, from which of the natives: for it may be done as well in the previous ones it is often used in such places some with a smaller height, a greater one yet let those which are greater have warmth They have the height of the sun: the increase and decrease of the heat which we abduct, and all things fertile in each of the three caumatic triangles, only the heat which the ray and when the height of the Sun is not nearly equal to that of the Sun, let the globe of the earth be everywhere homogeneous you will find out. Let us, however, refrain here from what it would be, if we trusted that it would be effected A table in which, at any given height above the horizon, the increase in temperature, and the decrements are demonstrated. bay spring I was Altitude of the Sun Complete the bay same mind Pole heights recasting ma in the south The heights of the sun
Explanation of the table. ]p The ridged column shows a fine thread, fertile whom the cold is intended. Himself a crumbling column shows the heights of the Sun, so the greatest part of the whole year also the matter of the whole day. The third column it shows the complements of the end of the turn, quickly the axis of caumatic triangles tem, fertile as the growth becomes ca straps The fourth is the elevation of the poles reflecting on the highest heights of the Sun. You see, then, in what proportion the sun's declination from the top is now heat it is intended, now let it be dismissed. Corollary J A Tqueex in this wonderful proportion ma- in the nature of things the secret is revealed he did, that is to say, everything of the whole world, and to such an extent that the degrees of heat are at the poles to have equals What you will experience will be done the strength of the arch of the day fub the clay height You will be taken to the bus stop here the fine chin of Verfi, the five axis of the triangle caumatics at the greatest height of the Sun refpon- a tooth; in fact it will give a smoky sensation as much as it emerges from the clay. Since heat from the pole to the equator on each side the increase of the height of the Sun at noon for the portion is clearly intended; it is done as much as he he passes away in one, only to come in the other, om- nifq; The lack of heat from the weakness of the ray on the reclining horizon, the length of the day, five wait for the fupra horizon fub latitudes
given will be rewarded. The same about the cold waxing and waning, and desolation to be fanned at high clay hours. But someone will say, "Forfan, I don't really want to eat. fe, fub pole let the heat be equal to the heat hot pressure zone But I will answer eat this truth, become the earth in a fimplicit manner, and end to reflect the nature of the places, And I say that the Sun will be as much as days, so be it ve femeftrifpacio fupra horizon perpe- ca with yours, and it was fastened at an unequal height as much as the equinoctial fub can, fuper ho- f rizontem fpacio hours, insequah iti the latter was high; and heat and on both sides with which the intellect was drawn into the tray be equal. And so much for the sun a distance of hours, degrees of distance horizon o8 Great Art Book VII. (Prfimetbei Part I raised the horizon as much as the sun could one hour at noon fpacio So you see the length of the day by recovering that from the weakness of the ray he was failing to cross. Because the heat is so hot the vast tracts removed from the soIe ficcitatefua the destructiveness of his breath, hence nature has provided, as plague: aSole more remote, greater persistent the cisterns were filled with plenty of gases; while partial rain, partial rain, dew, the frosts are yielding, the ground is too hot to be sold a cat, that is, by accident, as a dwelling It seems to control the effect of human beings. From this I said a little before, the heat equalizes and from the cold everywhere pliciter, fin refpe&u encircling: instead rum would be trusted. (oratorium II. Inc. is also made, why do you diverge and they come at different times; fub tro pico cfiium, here in April, and one of these they usually come from Germany and about one month later in Sweden, Norway gia, each to the pole. The same is the case with other things We must say: of which there is no other reason it is like the resilience of the earth, which: the length no more 2quo refrigerator heat refi- it was which, indeed, is not otherwise cold, nifilon with the increase of five, and the delay of the Sun fu- pra horizorttemfuperaripoteft Qorottarium III. X this proportional increase, of by means of a ray of heat bent, from the point to the hsec, and obtusely three of the caumatic angles, the deniq is made; fphaera anacamptica, five reflections, founded around the earth, of an oval shape. Let the land A, fphaera anacamptica BDCE, in where you see the equinoctial BC tiorefl of rays from terrestrial molereberbera- that is, the rays are reflected in a higher sphere to found, quanf fub polis DE, where for obli- the lowest incidence of heat radiation the vapors are not raised so high due to fatigue. In the intermediate parts, however, for the major, or I am less inclined to the Sun, and the rays also for it partial decrease or increase are extended From all of which the internet trusting in the infinite God of the Best and Greatest, who made the world so orderly, so proportioned no, so fine a harmony has collapsed, I will the effort was exhausted; as long as the sun was fu through the good, and causes the bad to arise; that is so great He prefers equity, and justice, as none in the whole I have proved to be a nation of the world, or a divine one the teeth or nature of it in any place, He never wanted to complain. As or from this ipfo to such a bountiful Giver of things only to be boiled, in innumerable ways of oblivion we cry Difcufla, then, reflected the light tura, efficiency, nothing reflects, nifi, as na ture of his mathematical reasoning let us sigh on the other side. Qua: indeed not ma le to the Anacamptic Art, five reflections whether the skill can be called ifagoge. anacampticA ar11s P A S E C V A. HEOREMATICS. Theorem I Jsfatura in all works fruitful shorter lines. A TU RAM in everything the bus to drive the fecund line you are shorter and stronger to act powerfully i; u have been normal, om nia natures works abun they are blown off. All of them for natural movements are made: they fall for the heavy ones are perpendicular to the hour zontis fuperfrciem, another motumnefci- what For it is improbable that the body is heavy,
for example along the lines of DC, or FC, as it were longer, oblique in fubjedlam the lands of the conquistador dere fuperfi century Sol also where shorter and more by perpendicular fire land through coffers oh god heavier ca belt product cet ededtum So, Sol con floating in E
more effectively the earthly fuperficia ACB cale he will do, how conflicted In D, or S; not rZZ-Jejrt-lim because of the caufam, the snow that is shorter there, and nt ver ii straighter feu, so to speak, perpendicular- nectsbnvijre, hiclongiore, obiiquioreagatlinea; but that the longer the line, the more fruitful how much affection is accomplished, or more oblique, the weaker the effed will be strengthened. I-Iinc it is clear why the heated zone of the fub intensifies let all things burn by the force of my heat; on the other hand poles of the world all the cold weather brigefcant. as it was a little before oflenfum it is also clear that the greater the I take the dliale, and it becomes very hot stronger Reason efl, because the solar rays more to the shorter and more perpendicular they will approach the line. Again, I see the beggars slowly from the bows, they are focused on a shorter line, juxta emiffionisfuas angle, as fuperiord it appears in the figure. For let the arch ACB, chor give 1K I say to shoot the beech near CE a shorter line; and as by others if it becomes longer, improbable indeed, when im the fur of the feet does not fall into a shorter line be carried From here it is also made, all machine- rum, and the guns of war (flus, ni-t! are directed to the perpendicular, in con- to obtain no virtue by making walls theme Even a shorter line from here with the same term in eUndem term ve more locier efl motion: for when next to the request nor the first, nature does nothing to fruflra, nor that he should fail in slayings; it is clear that The chef makes shorter lines. A B C Qupd fic is demonstrated. vela&ion fruitful line AC: I say, or the whole operation may be intended moved by the sail along the line AB to complete, or not. If first, acts through li let ABC be, therefore, every addition which it makes by the line BC efl fruflranea, since con- made efl end in pundlo B. Since then nature, as rich, does nothing to frustrate; fruflra but if he were to act, the end of B was finished what should he do further in the line BC: therefore nothing works in BC Therefore only what was prophesied was, I will work along the shorter line AB there And it is clear that he is different from many things examples of natural oils; for animals whose driving force is the soul, the fruitful bre they move in a more lively line to the border, as it is clear in the threads, the quasarane weave, reflect tudine, who etfi circulars sometimes in come, yet they are exredtisfilis, &iif with the breath, and woven into the fubtelari: because line brevity, the same is also clear int to the dogs, which are three on two sides ni, they run through the third, not fecus and fi na tural inflindtu edodti knot two triangles eat a third of the larger sides. Therefore nature in He acts in every way with the shortest lines, which was. to be offended. sArtis Magna Book II. Prometheus fars "Theorem II. these with every reflection in any Mirrors fattafemper angle of incidence of water ejl angle of reflection. for in any form some flat or convex glass or concave, as a little poft demonftrabi- mouse, including the furbrevilliest lines there; but the lines are punished by the same, as by punishing the forms of incidents, refle the production of the glass for the manufacture of the Mirror fintbreviflims containing square angles les, and with the lines of the mirrors tangents and perpendiculars I was bowed down by the punishments the products produced; but the angles, whatever they may be of incident seas and reflected rays in in the fuperficia fpeculi figure, nothing else nis, who are equal in age, the lines of the dung are grasped. It is clear then that appetite Theorem All things Yifa, feu in any other form d I look at the reflection of the brevity My line is included. SItfpeculum, on the surface of which the line is made rede, or curved HDE, form also, feuresvifs is punished in C, eye, feu place reflex forms in F: I say, that lines
DC, DF are shorter than all the lines a where C, F, to any other punished fpe protracted buttocks Or better put: I mean the lines of incidence and reflection, as les angles with the perpendicular from the penalty I was stooped to the floor the lines, the containers, are shorter than all of them lines from the same borders to the same futer finish the mirror produced, the corners ins- such as were punished by the perpendiculars concussed with extracted contents. Let it be Now, for example, take a flat piece of glass HDE, whose line is right HDE: true lines incident, reflection fint CD, &DF: Or then the living center, feu forms reflexes the place will be on the line CGF, the line HDE squi- diftante, ve} not If it happens; therefore it becomes the center eyes F, and a perpendicular line ex D, fi will make the line CFin G, will divide the triangle CDE the throats of sharks; Dem for the two angles CDH and FDE, which are incident, reflection fuppofi- tion sharks, from two returns GDH, GDF, what will remain of the sharks, juxta a common idea of the mind. If the liaab demas with sharks, remanentau- therefore the triangles CGD and GDE are sharks; therefore the corners, the corners, the sharks; er go the sides reflect the angles Proportionalia Juxta propof Euclid. Therefore, those who are satisfied with these, let them be led from E or what like a small pound to another pound C, E the terms of incident forms, reflexes li les CE, FE, which they have in common take care of the triangle CDF, squidiftant linesHDE. Since then the triangle CFE let the sides and angles be square, three but the throat of CFD sharks: triangle CD, &DF fimul fumpta effe mi the sides CE and EF of the triangle CFE fimulfumptis I will demonstrate that. For for the line CD is drawn, beyond D in a continuous manner, Sc directed to the pound L, so that the line DL, the line DF becomes sharks; Fed draw CE, which is the longer side of the triangle CFE, be produced beyond the pound E, ad pound M, until the EM line becomes a shark the lines EF, and the line LM, and the line EL: quiaangulusFDE, efl squalis angu lo DFC, per ip. par. angle DEC efl; sharks in the corner of the CDF, as patetexprsmilfis; but the EDL is a corner of the sharks FCD Then the angle FDE of the sharks will be throat EDL But the line DL sharks efl; lines j DE, and the line DE, to both triangles DFE, ELM, it is; common: therefore by par. line EF, shark lines LF, therefore lines EM, therefore angles ELM, EML sharks; therefore the total angle CLM is the greater angle lo CML, therefore by iy p. Euclid. line is greater than the line of therefore two the sides CE and EF are equally accepted major edges let the two sides CD and DF come together ptis That was to be demonstrated. What is the center of the living, feu forms reflexes is not placed on the CGF line, squi- drawing DE, fed in B, draw a line exB in A, squidiftans CF, and protracted with the line DC in A, then the perpendicular DG, in K, DFinB; &AE, &EB, as you see. Sintau temlines of incident and reflection read Anacamptioe theory of art. let the containing angles CD. &DB, unequal but let the angles CE and EB be obtained. They will be therefore, as the sides of the line AD, &BD are equal dtla perpendiculari DK, a pundto D By comparison, therefore, the triangle ADB with the triangle AEB, will be the lines AD, &DB the smaller lines AE, &EB, the utilitarians it is clear For when lineg AD, DB fint water les, therefore, because CD, DF are equal? lines but AE and BE are unequal; there will be two teraAE, &BE fimul junfta greater than two on the sides AD, and DB a bulrush of reeds. Therefore with AC, and CE, the double trigon ACE is fint the longer side AE will be three lines AC, CE, EB are the longer of the two lines, which are AD, &DB; therefore the AC line is switched off nor will the line: CE and EB be greater than the lines CD, DB. That was to be demonstrated. And in the same way it may be demonstrated in bufcunque to other Fpeculis, afflicted fpe whose pundfis Therefore, every thing vifapetfpecu- any kind of light or short film lines it is comprehended by the vifu: for when, as Fupra It has been said that nature acts in all things while the lines are shorter, the multiplication is true forms of adfuperficiesfpecuiorum, with
I do not like all other forms of diffusion be done by work by nature, and by the action of the soul, of course through life, or something else fpondens vifui be completed, purely natural it becomes: the diffusion of forms is evident, the reflection understanding and understanding while the soul, let it be truly natural, and about becoming shorter lines, which rat propofitus; for fruflra would become fecun while the lines are longer, as in the proceeding it has been shown. Theorem IV. The angles of incident reflection are ce[uals Qlt flat fpecuii fuperficies CBA, lumi- I know the radius of the body MB, but the reflection form radiusBN: I mean snake MBA in an accident must be a shark throat reflex For when, as in It has been demonstrated by the previous ones, the form body light by any means lum fub be comprehended in the briefest lines, but the line MB, BN, as the radius of the inci teeth, 8threflexion, fintline outside of which nature was acting wildly; it is clear from through these reflection cannot be done. given that the light of the body M reflects from S in N: er go angle of NSC reflection will be larger angle MBA incident: therefore angle an gulping in the sharks: therefore, next to the preceding one demonstration, MS, &SN, fimul lines fumptse are greater, and longer than
line MB, BN, as demonstrated a little before therefore nature flourishes through them would carry, that, contrary to the commonPhi- the axiom of the iophophorus, neither can nor be said must Therefore, with nature in all things but in reflection he makes shorter lines cutting off the shortest line, and reflected, and the shortest, the snow-faced ones in the fuperficia fpecuii they would found such as: er go the angle of incidence and reflection ne- There are such as Ceffarius, who was a demon to break It is true since they not all of us have a mind at first with geometrical demonstrations they will perceive, especially those who are geometrically inclined, Confederacy a little futtaflue; force The smoke was here predicted by the phyphic method put a little more clearly before the eyes. Why? therefore, the angle of incidence is such as as the angle of reflection, the line of reflection of the ray the same femper made with the line of radius in let him take possession of the accident: we have fumfumed this. Because when light moves very fast in the fpeculum falling, it penetrates the darkness it is not worth it, not even in the plains of it the figure is fignified, when it is still in it of the former im the feet, and the power of movement, and the nature were perfect, negated by fixation, to the part from which it proceeds (since the incident is perpendicular tia) fruitful lines the same made with having the former, reverberate. That but from the prohibition of the light of the polished body when the reflection of the movement takes place, it leaves a stronger impulse of light and prohibition nem, fortiorferequaturreflexio. AtquehoC so it is natural for us to have serious emotions teaches deorfum into a body of some plane deci-'vi, tmae' let's let it go perpendicularly, see-fj, wws we will be the one who defended the path of the refledti. Ra but the reason why the incident motion is the same K kk St re- Jrtismagm Liler VI1. Parsu of Prometheus and of reflection I repulsed it with the force of the incident light of the mirror, and rise again perpendicularly, as is done in gra the way by natural motion. When the body the ponderofum defences the vertical fuper the matter, we shall see the opposites, then repulsion of the body of the suit, then the movement of your ponderous body, and no other there the movement, the normal snow, and who eftoJ we will find: whence the perpendicular the body to return again from whence it went, or not at all It is impossible to make a reflection. when verde- fcenderit any ponderofum obliquely into the forge, or along a sloping line, a fertile corner, a fruitful one to enter he said, it would be filled. But light has the same thing of the nature of mourning, than of grave movements, or the ball on the plane or any other con- just For when it is natural it does not affect him dere, autdefcedere, is moved in reflection lest a fruitful line should be begun, and both ad an object that makes a whistling motion. Then refiling the fub at the same angle in the op- He will leave the desired part, where I will return the train let him drive you away, be at no point of reflection
he will find an object. Theorem V The deeper the body will be in the light of the smoke, the more ma lower angles of incidence, cause of reflection it is made by finishing a stronger thing bending O It plane fpeculi ABC, corpuslumino- fum in M, reflexx place in N: clear lu skillfully, the rising sun on the horizon ABC, the higher it ascends, the more they opened their throats; for it is greater the angle of the Sun is congested in D, of course DB A, what is the angle of the MBA, which he does con- ftitutusin M. What is given to be an MBA lisangular, angle DBA, therefore with an arch AM, fit30. AD, grad. will be ee- such as is improbable: for it is twice as great as the angle DBA will be twice as great as the angle M BA, which the Sun makes conftitutusinM: therefore the deeper the luminous body ascends, the greater the angles he will make: Which was to be noted After this, I say con- frequently, the sun's rays slide from D into B tem, hence in F more powerfully and effectively refrain to go, as the radius MB, from B to N, refle xus: for when, as in the preceding oftcn- there is smoke, a ray of light so powerful let the matter make a reflection, how much more ad he quickened the perpendicular: let him approach the farther he is from the hour zonte the luminous body, and raise it high then: It is clear, then, that the force of reflection is femper of reflection, in one the same line perpen let them be united, and therefore in the jade ray those who are endowed make the most powerful addition. For where the incidence is higher, and more by perpendicular (as seen in the motion of gravity) there is a greater impulse, and force of motion: therefore greater planirepulfio From these it is gathered that the greater power of heat asquinodial fub, than in any other the plague of the world, five it into the North, five it will decline in the North: because the Sun is the Sun rium into the earthly globe dicular, heat multiplies the force, reflection not in faith if Iphum fada: but the more so, or less cities or regions are nearer to him rim, the more or less calorisfen- tient. j Theorem VI. Sonmfeu's voice [rides the nature of the lurn ray noji in reflection It should be well noted that and what about the incidence of light snow, and the reflection of opposing forms they are all of them fit the phone very well modaripoflunt with regard to the diffusion of phthalic uniforum miter deformedly fade (snow that light the movement becomes infantile, the foni fucceffivus). For the reflected form of light is nothing else it is like an image, and the daughter of the first light, the bent voice is nothing but an image, the daughter vo cis also painted the reflection of light the lines of the red line are stretched out to cry we say that the voice reverberated in the same way fpeciem redar fubfidio lines to be made it must be criticized. And in the first place against which was a wall of leaves, and in accidents to the fertile vertical which he comes across the same road, retracing his steps, and at first he uttered a wandering voice poftli Amcamptka's Theory of Art. f+3 he whispers in the ears of the cryer; and here standing perpendicular to the wall Echo- m to be formed; aptiffimusefl: as in prasfenti figure SC When the voice was heard, he sounded obliquely fall into the wall, refledteturin opposed part, will never return to the voice of emif- fotem: further, the corners, which he finishes then in incident, then reflected; voice ray, fempcr the plane of the wall, not the stool and in the reflection We have said of light, active nature in everything the shorter the fruitful lines, the read So that fi weeps in B, contra The wall of EF has cried out, the voice to the sky mantis em she will hit the wall C obliquely, ne- with a gate and a further transition from C to D, refle let the angle of the former shark He did so that he who dwells in S, Echo by no means will perceive, nor who in F; fed that fool, who in D. The truth about forming and crushing Artifice Echo, and to trace it rcquifitofpacio fuse in z book we translated and in Mufurgia we know more about it, God willing, we will do, in which I prepare everything xa ropes, and their myths, and wonders we will escape geometrically, Stmufice: now to other things. Theorem VII. In every reflection from any fpeculofa-
Yes, that line, which? the lines cut at an angle tia, and the content of the reflection, along the line, which efl the common feftion of feperficia as well as fpecu li, then of reflection, of velfuperficia in the punished in accidents of fpeculum touching, waterily, divides the bifary, perpendicular to the nave efl. will rise therefore the luminous body of the ra- longer from A to B flat or convex fpeculi fuperficiem, from B is reflected in The opposite part of C. It is therefore clear from the def of this, and both lines efTein inherited the fuperficia of reflection. It divides so- I will bisect the angle ABC and the line FB; I mean for the fixation of line FB, to the plane of the fpeculi fuperficia gniusind- effe neceflarium perpendicularem, five ea JjSoS was flat, five convex; because when near in the same theorem. angle ABG, angle CBH, fumer fuper uc can the angle of incidence the angle of reflection it becomes what it is; also the angles ABF, &FB C, the perfuppofition of this theorem They will be as they are: therefore by finishing the whole angle FBG, equal to the triangle FBH, by define EUclid. there will be sharks. Therefore with the line FB, the dudta becomes in the ipfa reflection fu complete next to define of this (which fuper ipfam fpeculi fuperficia inherited eifedebet, vclfuper fuperficiem fpeculum the impundto incident, reflection contin nation) &ipfa will be perpendicular to necef Lario: That was prophesied. What happened a ray on the convex surface of the mirror AB will be cut, if the angle of incidence is AB L efl shark angle of reflection CBM; fiction the total angle of the FBL sharks will also be to- such FBM Therefore, of those who have already been taught neceflarium also FB, to convexamfpeculi it will be perpendicular to the surface. In everything therefore, by reflection from any small thing that line, which angle, 8tc. that was de- monflranum Theorem VIII. In every reflection the center of the living, fire place reflected form: point form alive, fire heart pore irradiated; reflection term perpendicular, and on both sides of Cathetis, in it let them confide in the falseness of reflection efl. I was with him in every reflection perfect reflection fuper fpeculifu- I will finish in the preceding Corollary We must stumble upon this necefalario efie: whence these three pundfa form vifs, feu of the body of light, the point of reflection, and the center of the eye three times, in the same crypt fiction'; I also do not know the perpendicular be, and the middle in the same reflection is fufer we will bring fiction: for that is a pun for something else given outside the fuperficia of the reflection of the term it will not be woven, it will be in another vertical line ris, quodeflcontra defin. of this, have and make the angle smaller, that improbable efl. Therefore it is clear that the pundtum torms, reflection, eyes, perpendicular, be a necefalario in the same fuperficia. Since but the Cathetis incident, and the reflection on they will be terminated by the same fuperficia (for they are to the muzzle of the normal reflection and to the lines of incidence and reflection of the term swim near the def. n. Therefore in every matter bending centers alive, the point of reflection, That was to be proved. But these to be explained geometrically. For the fuperficies fpeculi cujufcum- ueACB, in whose point C falls ra- the right of E, which is reflected in F. Eredis quo that perpendicular CE), squidiflantes ducan- Artismame Uber Vll, frometbei Part II. Let E, N, and FO be taken, which will be Cathetes to be cut, and to be reflected, Orthogoniad the same fpeculi fiiperficia with perpen to be told I say cathetos EN, kFO, effein the same reflection fuperficia. Since for when it is demonstrated before, E, D, F, C, punfta, of course, incident, and reflection in the same fuperficia; but the line dentia CE, copulate, and connect extre the halves of the catheter EN, CD, in the spikes EC; like the reflection line CF, the two extremes pun&a catheter perpendicular CD, the heaps C, F, shall be by defines, xz. of this asks NE, &FO, cutting catheters, of reflection in the brain in the same way as per pendiculari CD, fuperfiGie, with from which bet a point perpendicular to each pun&um in the same reflection fuperficia
The content of the guide is redla line. It is given but do not burn the cathetes in the same fuperficia reflection; fed to be terminated In another fuperficia, for example in pundtis G, V, therefore GN, OV, will be parallel, and not parallel to DC therefore the angles ANG, BOV, will be equal such as return ANE, DCO. Therefore, from another point of view fuperficia to determine this fuperfi- He will be able to lead a line that all other li He will do the things a&ually: all of which are im- poflibilia Therefore in every reflection, that was to be demonstrated. lTdetJUin Atclue is made from here, which most no- catheteitfti. que each of the points confpedto- it is given that rum in the catheter can be seen as an incident. Since for the uniform fituado punfti of the living thing quod efl: E, refpedlu fuperficiei cujufcum- let it be made of some small thing, from which its form is reflected the folus to be made to cut the catheter; but the form, which is seen in the mirror, is nil something else is done, than that of living things to fecuium, which it does not appear otherwise in that form while the image; it will be seen, therefore, in to cut the catheter; which was prophesied. Theorem Every point of reflection, incidentU necephalarium between the catheter tias, and to confide in reflection Ji luminoji body form olliquh He fell into the mirror. CItfuerficies fpeculi GABC, locusluini- nofi corporis D, reflection form E. cathe tus in accidents DA, reflection E, B I mean pundtum to be cut, reflection not pof- to impale fe, nifi between Cathetes A D, EB, in fpeculi fuperficie AB for it is given to the light D reflection to be made from A pundlo fpeculi in E. therefore the forms of the angle incident and reflected next to what Theor. II. have been demonstrated they will be equal; therefore the angle E is equal to AB it will be at the angle of DAB, sharp and sharp; therefore to then it will be equal to the part, which is impenetrable; therefore it is not possible for the reflection of the snow to take place in L, in three ipfos catheters to be cut, of reflection. In the same way impofliability is demonstrated of the object, let it be given that the reflection takes place from the point B Nor from any other pun&o beyond A, B R{flex; f, a reflection can be done with an affine; for it is given to cut the form of light in C, punft {pc-tra catheters, cul, &indefilirein'E, will therefore be DCB; the angle of incidence is equal to the angle DCE of reflection: therefore the line CF, divides the lumDCE, next to Theor. III. I will do it, it will be perpendicular to the surface of the glass. that all things are indestructible: when not even a corner of incident DCB, nor of reflection ECS, as- such that the line CF is not perpendicular. Now it is given that the reflection takes place from G in D, the same things that were stolen before, and im- possible: therefore it is clear that reflection cannot take place pofle, snow to be cut between the cathetes, bending That was to be demonstrated. Theorem X The shape of the pants of the body light Ji, fuperficieifeculi plane incident, locum, in with every conflict there should be a reflection, I found puntlus, whose formal eye is flat A falls, and the common line BCD becomes fcclio fuperficiei reflection, fpeculi, du- cla in the fuperficie of the fpeculi, and the puffles fall a little fruitful pundlumC, duca there is a line Anacmphatic theory of art. there is a line of incidence; AC, &apundlo Adu-' let ABE be perpendicular to the line fpeculiBC D, produ it falls to one side or the other to punish E, until li let it be done equal to ipfi AB, conti the line is drawn EC, that for ul through C to pum and F. Di co, quodvifu EXIFLENTINE wherever
the tooth, unable to be erected, is snowed in at one point accident, reflection is identified; It is clear therefore propofitum Corollary II.
O He also rides, let him be the same the image of the place from the surface of the small plane fub fpeculo, which; efl punti vifi from the same fuperficie fupra fpeculum planum exiflen- tis, utin the preceding figure of the line AB, &BE curadHpxt equidiflant tum a fuperficie fpeeulari B CD, then from the point of reflection of the lines CE, CA bore tan- with the waters, one of which is above, the other below fpeculum is extended. And from this it is clear the reason why we floated on the banks of the river should they be seen from the flagons, fountains, and others? of which, the summits of things are in the oppofitaripa visible only below the water, quan
then to stand out, and redla line defcen- pundto the line CF, the femper to the ipfum will become re flexion, and it will be seen that the form pundti A. Co- j teeth are seen to be extended, for the AC line is pure. and the angle A will be BC, equal to the angle CBE, because as is evident from i Corollary III. therefore, when from the hypothec line BE is made; move from the center of the living image to the joke equal ipfi AB, side BC, common, 8c j found redla procraTum, for example, of the triangle AB CBE, of the fintifogon, will be an-! line FCE, equal to the line incident the angle ACB is equal to the angle BCE. sedan throatFCDper fheor. II. flaqual snake lo BCE therefore the angle FCD, efl is equal to an throat ACB therefore when the line AC becomes the line in incident, CF will be the line of reflection: Under it therefore, the reflection will become lively. Place of birth tiae, &reflexionisfimulfumptis, verbigra-Linea}cr tiaAC, &CF, which is difficult not to prove- For with the line AB really of the dentition, is assumed to be equal to the linear BE, the catheter incident protradlo, cumquepundlum re- rejkxunk. of the inflection C, becomes common to both, eritper tur, in inquoifu conflituto, to iphum be re-confinequenAC, equalisEC, the whole of the three angle ABC, the whole triangle BECfimili- equal When therefore, AC, utdidlumefl. bending, we find that the propofit efl. Corollary I O Rides from this p edict Theorem, the form of the pundti rei vifa is not refledli a fpeculo to the same life, nifi from one pun dro only For if it were made from another bundle reflection: therefore erected perpendicular in it pofelet, which inherited the triangle of reflection hpmSo. would be divided into two equal parts: fed this lmpof- fibile efl, with a perpendicular triangle the reflection of the fuperficia into two equal parts of the god it becomes equal to the line CE, and the reflection line CF if it also becomes equal to the line AC, they will be through They are a common idea of the mind, dem one third, AC, CF, CE, between fe equals: ergoFC, &CAfimul fumptae, li to spin, of course, the incidence and reflection, ae what will be the total lines to each place of the extensible force, that is to say, equal to the FCE. That was to be demonstrated. K. kk ANA Vttrid Hope clorum dl alive
ANACAMP TICA ART t a s r e r i a. THEOREM A. Theorem XI. they are concerned with reflection. UM in the previous ones a little while later it becomes about Specu lorum planorum in lu threats of retaliation for with pleasures; rank order look at that there, as something also of another reason Let's say mirrors. So I look at seven the regular genera of the Catoptrica period tis will be found. First, and that mum is, of the planes, of which Hadenus it blows In addition, three convex, spherical of course, cylindrical and conical. Three ca va, spherical of course, columnar, feu cy lindracea, conica, feu pyramidalia Vo and the regular Specula are sung for the plains their frauds, with which they fuse. Which for it is regular, let it be a conic reflection ri cannot be, the snow from regular bodies; but regular bodies do not flow, indeed, neither fi bodies like the fluffiest of planes cerum, velunipsfuperficiei concave, or convex; but all the swindlers are invited xa, or the hollow part of the flagellum, or part of the fuper- It is made to be a ficiei fphaerx, or a column, or a cone so many are flattered by the scents of Catoptricus gular Mirrors, how many effec resurface Moreover, all things are of the same kind their nature is like an incident ray of light unerringly to that corner, which the incident ray with the surface of the Mirror con- he floated, let them strike back at the shark, as if he were a fool the demonft Alazcnlib. number. par. Vitell. lib. 5r. theor. We are trusted with hollow mirrors, as less for reflection how to be required for the inftitute a mouse, fit to be accomplished; here the folum de con vexis, using spherical, cylindrical, conical, briefly, and as clearly as possible we will grant, that none of those things which ad To make a catoptric gnomonic noflram they are seen, let us be seen Theorem XII. If the ray of the threshold falls on the Mirror convex, conical, or cylindrical, angles incidence? hunted C It, for example, is a convex mirror FG
D, the luminous ray from B to D cadensrefledaturin A: DicoBDG, &AD F equal angles: since CDA, CBD, from theor. are equal dicular CD, from which equally AD, BD In f? it cannot be removed: therefore the angle CDA, n combined with ADS, it will form a complete re whereas, whom they found lines SD, St CD per perpendicular: therefore, angle CDB ad rich BDO, corner equal to the former Oh, let it be: therefore also re- dusCDS, eritxqua- F E G lis to the whole angle CDO. Since then SDF is the contact angle ae such as is made of the angle of contact with the oppofito DG, juxta Jib. Elem. Euclid therefore ADC, are angles subtended by equal angles bus angles CDS, CDO straight, or from CD F, CDG, the remaining angles ADS, &BDO, or ADF, j according to the common mental ra- tion, they will be like those who fall with fint of the day, and of reflection, is clearly prophesied. The same thing happens solar ray B, in point M cast G Mirror CDE: I say Xnconk( BMG, AMF, an- Speculo re equalize the future lcs. Because, when in every meeting xa (according to lib. Alazeni) Speculi fu finish, from the ipfo pound of reflection of the triangle ilm eredum in ipfa reflection fuperficia they are funded; whatever the means, the fire is the same A line is a triangle divided into two equal parts tranfeat by the center of Hope of the convex hulls, juxtaz6 book Vi- tellion In the spheres, indeed, through the center fphaepe; in cones, indeed, and in cylinders by tArtis Jnacamptiu "Theory.
the center of the pride of the squidiftant bafi, which is the weight of the axis of the conic, to which axis through finishing is perpendicular: it is made as a ray us luminofus B, falling into M, reflection in A, make fu- along the line F G, per cent trum fetation conic to a standard gem a little while ago the corners of the sharks. Similarly demonftrabirur, the Sun from F into the pound C, fpeculi cylindracei AB incident, ex Cin G, fupraline reflex DE per cent trum fedionis bafl asquidiftantas dudam, to draw the water angles FCE, This I confirm by a fruitful experiment twice An experiment. 'jjC' Let the Orbis come out of the den and in this world the center will be pierced) the hole, whose the beginning is made from the degree both in the Orbis quadrant to the east, than to the west: push, the center of this world will be dug out so much fpacio, as the bodies of the Speeuls conveniently let them in. These fadis. fi intromife- in the center of the wooden globe some of the Mirrors, And you will see some hole when you stop The incoming ray of the sun, and fall tem in the mirror ramen I reflected again: what to do impofli effete bile, be not a corner of cutting sharks effect of the angle of reflection. Theorem every surface of the reflection from the Mirrors co- lumnaribiUfoel conias conias, center vi- fire, fire of light; point of reflection; punished the axis on which the perpendicular drawn falls from the chastened reflection, the fuperfuperficio of the Mirror confiflerefl necefle What is the center of life, and the point of reflection of xion, a pound that is reflected in the fu- perfect reflection, is clear from Theor. VIII. of this that of any other Specu the question must be answered. In all matters of falsehood are the incident lines of bending and of reflection, three prsdida punda conti spinning And he will do the work of reflection A fruitful mirror of the length of the shaft line am which of them is manifest? in the former they are the dida, the whole axis, and the pound, in that which falls perpendicular to the weight is reflected ion dudta, efflein this fuperficia. What happened the general disgust of the reflection of the fuperficia, and fpeculi becomes fedio oxygonia, it is clear that this nem the slope effle fuper the axis of the column? in- a terrible ax in the pile, on which it fell perpendicular, produda from the weight of the refle xion's fuper fuperficiem, column in pun- I give the contingent of faith; So that is clear which was proposed. Theorem Following the reflection of the common surface, and Cylindrical convex mirror from whomsoever the punishment of that circle is reflected, femperfitin the same fuperficia. O It fpecular cylinder com- the forts of reflection, and mirrors BP i and any punishment shall be fixed
while he pleased in the circle BPT: manifest If the semidiameter of that circle is BPT, perpendicular to the mirror contingent on that reflection given the weight theme therefore and every such perpendicular rium extra fuperfi the world is contingent tem cylinder in the same trickery unfaithful, will stick the whole thing in the matter of falsehood of bending, as a matter of fact carries the BPT line, ei- that perpendicular he whined three times. Since therefore any such a straight line the matter is in the fuperfi of that circle, and form of reflected light where? it is A, like it is in fuperficia: In then the leaves are broken fiction will be a reflection whatever pun God is alive? , or for- ms reflexes, fadaa by any of the pounds of the whole of that circle, or a thief alive? , illuminated by fire? That He was the propofitum. Pottery Co. O He rides thence, all perpendicular pound of reflection fuper Mirror co I would inherit the convex shape of the lamp, and prodigious within the diameter of the mirror the circle of the mustaches of the squidiftating cylinder. Also of all the reflections of the fuperfice from the same cylindrical convex mirror to each one of the living creatures of the fairies a fiction, whose common weed, fuperfi The circle of the mirror is tcquidiftans mustaches column? For when in everything the line of such a reflection of fuperficia, as a little before de- eArtis Magna Liber VIU Prometheus Part II as shown above, perpendicularly a mirror in a heavy matter the tangent of bending is the diameter it is made by the mustaches of the circle ajquidift the front of the column; as in the fuperface of the column he does not Efele, the snow is the only circle that has a form bent, the fire becomes alive in the center in the same fuperfi with the mustaches of the cylinder aequidillans: it is clear, om the falsehood reflected from the same with a small convex cylinder to the same the life of the fairies is the only one with whom we share nis fecflo, and the mirror is a circle of fuperficia equidiftans bibus column; . Theorem XV. Every [{perfection of reflection (whose com munis Jeclio, of the columnar mirror velpyramidal convex is the line of longitude Mirrors) divides the visible Spe- culifuperjiciem Qlt Convex cylindrical mirror, whose perfection, which appears to the living, becomes EDFG, axis HI, formalucis, feu centrum vifus A. Because therefore the fuperficies refle of Zion, making the mirror of the cylinder when, or conic, does not make ipfum, nifife- when the length of the axis HI: Let it be line of length, fruitful than that fu finish the reflection fpeculum, I mean the MO line bifaria fuperficiem fpecu I lived a happy life branch For when she died orthogonal reflection gonafuper fuperficiem con dyeing column, it in the line MO, through equal divides If, then, in line M O is fixed to the point P, du- and the line SPT, the line TPS is drawn by the mass P in the fuperficia Speculo touching such a ra tion, so that the SPT line touches a certain circle column; equidistant with mustaches, which becomes HL, will be the line AP perpendicular to fu through the TPS line. since he is led into the abyss fiction, I will believe that fiction: therefore the straight line AP touches the center of the circle HL, which becomes X. ducanturquelineae AH, A they seek water: they also copulate XH and XL then they will be three gula AHX, 8c ALX equiangular, and it will be an the angle PAL is equal to the angle PAH. therefore hu right line AP divided with LPH, by equal lia in the mass B. But the arc LPH is equi- the columns and the lines also re I lived the last days of my life the apparent equidiftant linee MO, as pa tet from lib. i. Euclid So the MO line will divide the bifurcation of the pillars, iffa con- futer in the fuperficio of reflection: therefore fuper you will make that reflection fuperficia with a small force I was an apparent bifurcation. Finally in the conic mirror, five unique, five many; The futility of those reflections is a femper the same demonstration: therefore it is clear that the propofi- then Corollary L XMniumfuperficierum reflections from with the same convex cylinder to the same life of the fairies so much, whose common weed, &fuperfi- ciei fpeculi eftlinea of length ipfius fpe
ass Also, let the common line be of length s I am tired of the reflection of the fuperficie, of the small con He was tired of the cylindrical carriage, from whomever he came Let the weight of that line be a reflection of the force fum, femper will be done in the same fuperficia. So by finishing other pundas, living in other places they will require Corollary II. CI live, and draw the line of the axis of the small cylinder the convex dragons were parallel in it that plane, from the whole side of the cylinder to the living it will be reflected, and the image will be seen as a real line give equal parallels: fi further becomes alive outside the plane of the line of the axis of the cylindrical mirror parallel convex, from the side of the cylinder necef- reflection will be done. Corollary III OI the living nofter has been parallel to fuperficia of reflection in a cylinder, will be common How I am so tired of the reflection of fuperficia, as fpe- is blessed cul, or circle, or lin reda them: fi vero fue- rit from the side, and if the axis was o? vVw, it will be drko. common to both of them is the fatigue of the fuperficies both reflection and fpeculi ellipfis: om but other fuperficies of reflection fe- cantax column, st ipfam column, because the perpendicular reflection from the mass a snowman makes an ax; common lines with these falsehoods and falsehoods of columns fintfedions, which in columns and cones af- They are known as geometers. Theorem The reflection surface, the small cylinder convex with a common line of length nisfpeculi exiftente; formas ejufdempunlli life of the thing, or formclelucidce from one only with the punch of the whole fuperficieifpeculi to one force the place of smoke and fire is reflected in the reverleration. Let the given cylinder be convex, whose axis CD, and it becomes the reflection of ABG, so that from the mass B the shape of the luminous body in falling Art cidcns in G, is reflected to A and the living center may be able to eat. sit hold common fedio iftarurti fuperficia rumlineaFGN, qua: eftlinealongitudinis fpeculi I say that the form of pundi B does not reflect xum iri in A, nifi folo pundu G. It is drawn for the weight G is perpendicular to the I will make a fertile column of the FGN line tangent, which flt line GQJecans li neam AB; pro- doubt between pound fum, cen trum Vifus in pound therefore, because in this line of GQ, treacherous enter fpeculum fe- the cat is pulling CD axis therefore in pound E Therefore, since the line of length FN, efl in fu- to complete the reflection, there will be an axis through which the di- they give, therefore, and the pound of Ephi- it will be military. When, therefore, one leaf was fuperfi- dispoflitintelligi, in quafimulomnia pun- let AB, GE, line: FN, CD fint: therefore a The fuperficic of the whole fpeculi cannot be refled the form of the pundi B to A, nifi a line of longitude nis FN But in the more distant it is oftenfum, In small planes, reflection does not occur, nor fi from one folio a pound therefore in these fpecu the dispute cannot be made, if the snow falls from one foal lineaFN. That was to be demonstrated. Theorem XVII. He smiles at the surface of the reflection, and the cylindrical mirror convex with a common feflion exiflent circle bafi with a watery tail, from one point I made the shape of the entire body of the flesh, let the fire of light give flt reflection to life. It is clear that the previous with this exiftcntehypothefi, fuperficies re flexion ABG, eritaequidiftans bafibus co lumnae, also a circle, which is common ABG column: : whose axis eflCD, equidistant to the cylinder's whiskers, fitGH, and each center K I say, that a cifculo GH, the communion of fuperficia ABG, fuperficiei fp'eculi, rton can be done the reflection of the form B to A, the snow from one pound G. Because it is cuni in fphaeric fpeculis a convex circle, from which the reflection takes place reflection cannot take place, the snow is from only one pound: Therefore, neither in the iftisTpeculis column rivers, the snow is given in a single pound G. fi Reflection in a small piece of glass (as from a pound L) splSuZ the reflection should be done in a similar way, using a weight G produ- nicis cylindd. So it will fall TbeorU.
Perduda Perpendicular fSfuper fun axis CD, in pound I, line ver6LK, fe-7 let the line BA, in the point K, be drawn from the hocaliaf', rti3,
be drawn to E the center of the circle GH, and it will be K. Ead the axis CD is orthogonal, for it is infu- complete the reflection to the rfed axis CDfe- sing Therefore two lines: KE, KI, with the line EI, part of the axis CD, is an isosceles triangle the angles will form a continent: athoceft impenetrable Ergo impoflibiie form from where B to place A, from some point the performance of the whole fpeculi by another; than by a pound Grefled That was to be demonstrated. Corollary I Any pound fixed in Fu-" perfice of columnar fpeculi appearing, or a straight line is drawn from the center of the convex cone, He will make her a treacherous fool. Also collect all the flat ironwork in ali with which the apparent force of the length of the fuperficia for him, fpeculi conic, or cylindrical cdnvex, fpecu touching the light the doubts which concern the apparent portion from the tremors of the j omrie and those fuperficias between smoke and fpeculi fuperficia, efe extenfas. Theorem From the refla line of the cylindrical axis, draw the convex hull of the liquid Jldnte, fiformarum oppofltarum flecies in fuperfi they have fallen a hundred times; k is the total line length the fringes reflected them to life, pofftbile efl; become an image which of them will be seen refla, aquales rebtss iiflsi Let the mirror be columnar, whose axis ZK, r what if the line reda, which: it becomes TH, it will therefore be li nea TH tequidiftaris line fpeculi length cylindrici, qua: exiftens iri eadern fuperficie TH ZK with the line TH, with the axis ZK; it is possible that all the punfta line: TH be refled to life E. Because it is possible, as a reflection of all pundonim the line: TH, ends in the long line of the column, which is G A: because that line was of the reflection performance, in which E is active, axis ZK, and line: TH, and column of fuperficie: , is commu- nis. It will be seen that the image of the formx line TH, reda; therefore, because every perpendicular is drawn from a pun on the line TH, it will be in the same fuperficia ax, and probabuntu #iiriaginum locapundorum TH, I will restore a fruitful line to the elf difpofita, as in fpeculis plains It is clear, therefore, that the propofitum True this propofition is further explained, at Yitellon, see prop. f6l. Theo- Artis maena Book Prometheus Part III Theorem Falling rays of light in a cylindrical cave normally the surface of the horizon all p unc a circles, feu phlegmentos circular bafihus cylinder (Equidijlantium, of those who appeared alive; also omnipunch line of length parallel to the cylindrical axis, reflected in the plane, they will be reflected in the reflected light by a conical flow of incidence, fl reflection nem a circular net, whose radius luminofl a line that of the length of a cylindrical flpeculus: indeed of a circle luminofl from ejufldem circle baflbus cylinder ce- they will be formed by those who blow. O It is the light of the Sun A, a cylindrical fpeculum cylinder baffles? ftantesFG, ED, line; the length of the cylinder FB, GC. I say, the ray of the sun A falling in cy lindric fpeculi normally of the horizon in. fi- smelling fuperficia, all pundta circle rum FG, HI, ED, RX (who bafiBGatquidi- ftant) of those illuminated by the Sun; also the lines the length of the cylinder reflected in the plane register circular network OMPN, circles indeed, FG, HI, ED, RX, reflected in light cir butts in the plane OMP, M, OX, GS, VQJLi- but the length of the axis of the cylinder is equal to blowing the sun's reflected light, the rays of the network of the circle laris, or the half-diameters of the defcri circle bent For when it is used in the proceeding di&u elV, the whole appearing of the circle of fuperficies aSole cyiinlro, he will be enlightened, therefore, by completing all things veiconofje- huj us fuperficiei puncta. Again, with with these practical theorems, from only one Idumpro-punfro is made to live, fire reflected form lo- jkit. with repercussion; and infinite points let them sing in the light of the fire finish, and reflect them to the same point it becomes improbable, (for if this were to be done, he would do it some, which is against theorem pe title of this, and common Optics therefore, let not nature be in vain fail neceffarib different punished different
fa places are refled in that proportion, so that fi- c as fe will have the diflation of the punished to the punished, iic-fe should have the form of a local diflation; reflected? to the place of another form? reflected? Let it be perpendicular to the axis of the fpeculi bending sharks at the corners the reflection of the fuperficia. When, finally, so many incylindrical reflection surfaces lo, how many circles effe pofTuntbafi, how many li denial? of the length of the axis they should be given, whether two or more The faces of the reflection of the fimuleffe do not poffint, as exufra demonftratispatet It will happen which? and the proper one, too, will be in by reflection in the horizontal plane lo when As the sun's ray A falling in cy a small mirror will illuminate the whole life I was an apparent hypocrisy to him net therefore the first circle FG, bafi BCa? quidiftantem: I mean everything pundaiftiusfe- a small piece of radiofa? the shape of the miflurum on the plane in the MOZDP circle. When for, as it is clear in the previous ones, in con The diameter of the cylinder bores the diameter eff reflection: so that a ray falling from A, ver- bigratiain pundtum G, from this repercussion there in B the lines of reflection, incidence? for I will give back to those who conspire: it will be as a punishment while G, in the opposite part of the circle ZOMP let the form of light shine; the other term lu cis ray with which fado the necefalarium it is, that the rest of the intermediate pundafpecies lu cis in the intermediate quoquepunda between Y interjeda on the plane lit? fpeculi refuting the fuperficia, those for which we have spoken let them cross the portion Light, then, A from everything the bus pundis of the circle FB will be reflected in the fuper horizontal line in the ZOMDP circle, whom they decried as a traitor. The truth about culus cyiin dri HI, a ray received from the Sun will reverberate circularly in the surrounding plane rent OX Similarly other circles ED, &RX, reflecting the received light plane, they will draw the circles CS, VQ, below as many as possible in the intermediate circle with their mustaches aquidiftant, the lirer in the plane defcribent- All woe ro radiation; treason of these circles? nij, they will be other than the faithful coni, whose the mustaches are circles carried on a plane, con vexatious fuperficias will end in uni- and every little circle of the cylinder is filled with Tr0jeSioI. the circumference is parallel. Moreover, when near the men the preceding Thorema becomes no line of long-laris- from which the whole species does not belong it can reverberate; it will be as if the sun's rays did not circles Attis Anacamptiu 7heoria. circles only, fed& diameters ipforum of circles (which indeed will be as many as li of the length of the small axis ipfi circles are registered as a model of art country for all the punda lines of length the shape of the lures flashing, the lines red on the plane they will affect the circles inscribed, and all in the center, the feu point of the axis of the cylinder the lowest meeting; therefore they will answer the pun from where, line? circles, circles, cones cones, as appears in the figure; Therefore from the fall you shine a ray of light on a cylinder of ipecac return to the horizon of the fuperficia, That he was a demonftrandurm A corollary covered with themes. But to ipfa ex experiences Corollary Luminofz projeSlura a cjlmdrico conicoye I looked at the horizontal plane of the reflection Juh polis defcrihent conosfle lio s, whose hafles flow circles C Cylindrical mirror fub pole in fphssraobliquiflimai where the pole is gra the fathom is thought to be raised to the limit ftatuatur: I say, fiSolinOconftitutusidifi shines, the reflected ray will be recorded a vicious circle For when in such HAs such wonderful reflections of light cylindrical, or conical fpeculifuperficie you will reflect on the projections, experiment with what that to every miracle tur, which not infrequently hides me in nature He was astonished at the majesty of all, il the game Briantis repeatedly forces to pronounce eifxrblsZhwtM uT (lk m m(n: neither did I go pfum to introduce into my mind ever I was able to do so, often and long-term the truth is more certain, it is infallible, and all the experience of falsehood is detectable; strange I say, it is entirely unique
Mirror radiation is projected at any time even with irregular fuperficia, or difconti- I met with the evils of perfection, man lest those whom the Sun pierces be parallel, and any conic faiths in any one planes of each horizon It is difficult to describe and reprehend; so- from, to be inclined to date but the reflection of the light reflected her figure, lionlmiui than in the common intersection of the planes eidarum h clock, cones c center of the world, mo-1 siretfdr tuque litis in parallels, quere didorum co- whose eiiipfes are our bafes, conftituti decircinato- hyperboU, rumj through the apex of any gnomon in the plane iztineare-no defcribere they love; fiefub polis circles they are fub frigid zone eiiipfes, fub temperate pa- j scraps, hyperboles; the fub of the archer was denied that you draw the lines of a natural model will give indeed, it is figured in the plane in which pious circumcision, not to be used in flat mirrors the reflected ray, instead of being moved, from one at the next hour fedtoto day that cone, which he will bear, is the same (which is worthy of the greatest admiration) he will remain motionless in a place; I would like to tem day to the movement of the Sun in one of the Zodiacs he will be promoted in the degree in which another pa he will bring the rallel: fic Sun in the tropics con I'm going to take a long roller all day in the tropics bet: that the matter is a matter of complete astonishment nis, &nefcio or haden from anywhere fylivdrik the horizon reduced to nfi' crying, frojir tit circular to use Sun fub polo by the conftitution of the world, Solfemper parallelusbra gnma- moved to the horizon, as is evident from the-- fcriptionephric; his ray will bear from reflected in a plane by a cylindrical mirror, juxta proceeding whose mustache is lnminofus circulusGH: cir but the culvert requidating to this, from which the cone the faith is called MN, it is the line, in which I was engaged Puntur pundu reflection: when it becomes circular, parallel to the Sun what if, a circular line, too, was born which is the same, to describe the circle bit for it will bear such a figure as The sun's rays will bring the cylinder; that when in such a fit of the world it becomes a circle, a circle will also throw fsfam, as in the former we said, reflected in plane mirrors it can be done in only one pound; put in cylindrical convexes, 8r conics will not go together only a pound, fed in totalinea, five ea fue rit circular, fi ve reda, feu length cy lindri, or cone, can be done, imofemperfiL He will therefore project the rays of the former reflection of Solin pla no circle, which is so much diminished, as much The sun was higher; so much greater indeed, the larger the sun, the smaller it is. It is clear then propofitum Corolla Jrtismagm Uber VIL Prometheus Pm III. Corollary The ray of the sun (where the cold wave on the surface A cylindrical mirror falling on the reflected ray the plane dejcribet ellipfin Let it be a cylindrical mirror at a height degree of pole height, for example, or another zone; cold; choose competent lift up the south line tur: I mean the incident ray of the Sun I will write down the ellipse in the plane of reflection. fifgidflat For with the Sun thisfituinSpecu- ttobolifmm lum incident obliquely, tIw otyynUr in- He will make a cylinder with the rays of the anacampus: cumque ptichsfive Juxta ropol. Pappi, oblique cylinder fedio gives birth to ellipfin: weeps, like the sun's ray cylinder to form a convex cylinder degree luperncie the eiptic line, which; will be tUipfmde- common fatigue of the cylinder, Scfuperficiei re- fsrtbit. bending and therefore when the ray next to that which; haden didafunt, inom- let him be tired of the incidence of the rays of the sun tower; He writes in a similar way on the plane, that which will be reflected, a figure similar to that from which it is reflected it is jus, that is, ellipfin. That was shocking to be given Corollary write down C olis radius fub temperature zone in the cylinder cutting the mirror of the mirror, re bending radius, now parabolas, utfub grad. now write hyperboles; fub follower veropophitus to the meridian line, so that The axis of the mirror becomes a line parallel to the horizon
it will be imitated on the plane. Because Under the belt nim, with a cylindrical mirror in the sphere ZZ hyper- Rlua elevated, to a certain pole height botns, out of which he will make the horizon obliquely; how come parabolas, the ray of the Sun falling on the same horizon reason, as being in a circle of any height a cylinder parallel to it, or a cone will do; But I am tired of that for the elder, or for me nori pole elevation, now parabolas, now hyperbolas, hafce indeed in the cone, those in make a cylinder: It will be like a reflected ray, ve it's dirty, it's like of a conical or cylindrical dion; in the plane of co- notomo will outline, as in the fuperficia cylin dri, ant cones, will form the rays of the Sun. Sub But the fphaera reda, feu fub to the equator, re dam defcribet line j according to the faith cy sly An experiment. CI cylindrical fpeculum to the horizon red corners with which it rests which the climate of the world will make its ray reflect and she laid her hand on the plane, which would do, fifub polis, feufubfphraputer most oblique; of course it will make a circular The reason for this is that with the height of the circle whether, in which the sun's clay moments spring it is made, in small circles everywhere the locox fint parallel, and the axis of the cylinder rpttZenith, 8cNa- The same common line with them exists: It will be that the ray may do the same in all places reflected in the plane of the faith: so indeed, that The circle of the Sun in the for example, a circle of height, in which that he was on the horizon, he was conveying, how eonftitutusfub pole in altitude cir ass, fire in the tropics with the fub polis cir the altitudes of the Sun are not from the parallels of the Sun to be diverted; nor shall there be any difference between give the projections, the snow that the circle, linjffff who projedus fub pole, in the space of the middle year Tad=a= grows and shrinks; in oblique fphae- xflnkafdT ra fpacio of the artificial day from sunrise to noon -paints eafde the day grows; but from the south to the west let it diminish, as the danger of the doing of this thing it will be clear That is a cylindrical glass for the gnomon. a certain height of the pole has been raised, the reflected ray will describe it to you as I wear it either conical or cylindrical, which he would strike the apex of any phyle in a flat place the height of Didepolis: for example a cone will be raised above the meridian line ad66. degree elevation will be brought to you in every horizon that parable, which the apex of the phthyl at the horizon of the aida elevation write down The same goes for everyone else. Cu The reason for the matter is the same as the preceding one: for he is the axis of the height of the circle of the cylinder dri no more to redos, fed rii? afrr! ty they will do it this way, I will also wear it obliquely let him become like him, to whom he would become his own by elevation, he does not care, which; fi eliipfis, pa rabola, or hyperbole, here also elli pfin, parabola, or hyperbole cannot be made it is cefle Finally, if the cylinder is placed to return to the bottom of the fphaera, let them overturn it in this way to the Sun, so that the Sun's ray let him return; the reflected ray will be written down, by which in whatever place and hour, in the opposite plane let me bring back the line which he carried When the sun is in the set in the sphere to be placed, as it is oftenfum. Therefore a single radius from the outer surface of the cylinder by reflection, at any place, time and hour, om the horizons of the whole world conic rcprsfentari poflunt what was to be extended Note, however, that we hafce cones don't accept expensive credit lines than mathematics, fed as Phyficasfeu provided with some breadth: that most to be offered Corallaria Paralipomena, T) from the Cylinder, Cone. I. CI communisfediofuperficierumre- of bending, fpeculi cylindracei con I carried Art vexi, be it the side of a cylinder, or a circle: lo ca reflections and images at the same time so they will have faith, as if they were on a plane, and fphserico convexo II. If the living flt outside the fuperficio fpeculi cylindrical convex in plane viflbilisada- obliquely rum of reflection, and fpeculi, will be ellipses, and several in the same confpicuous fuperficia they polish, from whom to the same life xio flat
III. If a ray of light falls on cy lindrum normally rising to the horizon, will be the radial projection of the cone of which the luminous circle of the baffles, but the cone the circle of the other bafi requidiftans: since nay, with the circles of the heights of the Sun the cylinders requidiften, Stadaxem redifint; But the sun is every moment in one of the flt parallel to the horizon: it is done, as the radii of the four circles falling on the cylinder he will protect the common faith cybes of reflection, fpeculi With truth common hrecfedio flt circle, projectu the branch of the reflected ray is also a circle in the plane the caufari is uncephalary: but it is given proje ellipfln this cturam. Ergo jamfedtio to the axis redtacaufabit ellipfln Therefore, the snake the incidence and reflection will be read Ergo and circle fimul, and ellipfln instead will throw that all will be stolen, the galls are demonstrated. Therefore, it is a circle will throw And from this it may appear: when for in this way all the points of incident, and of reflection, which I have made in the circular production they are pious, they are equally removed from the axis of punishment, the rays reflected by the punit incident, all ae such as at the outer end of the cylinder let the corners be cut, and the fuperficies of the necefalario be refled xion, in which the rays of the sun will be conceived, will be co nica, whose bafls is a circle: and cir is given do not throw a tail; therefore I will say to Necephalario while there is that projection which takes place beyond a circle, efieindiverfafuperficie reflection snow what improbable fuperius demonstrative we live; therefore this remains the circle of the cylinder throw light That was to be expected. But that I wanted to find this more idiosyncratic, as an error of those who circle this fltu cylinder for if they deny it more, it would be easier to notice. Binobj- IV. You will gather from these that such a feftio- amptiZT nem cnicam, or cylindrical in the plane de- InfUno co-strikes the projection of reflected rays, notomoSfe- qUalem incidence of rays in i pf: cylinder He makes the cinuioZi fuperficie: so much so that it becomes the circle of a cylinder npfes, re-circles of heights are equidistant, which will be Eminence o CyAndrus closed to the horizon it is inclined; will infallibly bear the said stems Cyindri, a luminous circle on the plane: pUmZad then you bow down, so that there is already some kind of slaughter between circles of height, and circles of cy- it touches the lindricus near ii. i. I guess I went on, no longer a circle, fed ellipti cam will bear the figure, which indeed it will be the more difficult and the duller the cylinder you will bend the drum more, and until the hour zonti is placed parallel to the axis of the cylinder; for this fltu ray into it at the angles re- a dos cutting red will buy a line on the pla no opofito, with fatigue it becomes linear; by him the way in which I lived in a circle a favorite, not a straight line of snow appears. V. It also follows from these, the line re I'll give you a light and I'll bring you to the plane infallibly, whenever the circle cy lindricus in the same plane as the Azimuth circle, of the vertical fire, which the Sun holds at that time, Exifits for they will be in the same place finish, the Azimuth of the Sun, the cylinder bore, reflected luminous line, as from the upper part of the it is clear from the monftrate. The fi cylinder is so inclined that the axis of the cylinder coincides with the axis of the world, and parallel cylindrical circles of the sun blowing, the reflection of the Sun's ray will carry it the shape of the cylinder, which he makes parallel of the Sun with the cylinder, of course el a lipstick The fact that the cone was just inclined it will not be woven, it will make either an ellipse, or a parabola, or a hyperbole, a velfim-like fathom of the cone cam, as the sun moved through the peaks a bram on the plane, which is common to the body flat clock cone having a di- while the sun is parallel, he likes to be carried away. VII. It is gathered together, having become diverse Cylindrical circles in the sky rc, and next to them with the cylinder lest the luminary also become a reflection of the ra I will throw the gods: or for the cylinder it is placed reduced to the horizon, &ficaxis cylinders with vertices and circles with circles rdpondent Almucantarath circles high with horizontal fire; tur parallel to the horizon, k fic axis refpon-
due to the diameter of the horizon, and the circle of the circle Azimuth issue, vertical fire; or finally It is inclined and supported, and the axis is cylindrical the axis of the world, and the circle of the Lambs, they reflect the parallels of the Sun. VIII. It is also collected from all these a strange property of a plane mirror, cylindracei, fired with fire For the reflection of fpe is the reflection of flat ass to the movement of the newspaper, AngulisfJZtl of course hours is moved by Cylindracea vero refle )um O di' xio, fire conic the proper motion of the Sun, quiUTnttmi he is a fruitful fucceflion of the Lambs, it boils; so, indeed, that his for a long time the Sun dwells in some parallel, in- txmkit, on a dark day and the Sun in the Zodiac, also treachery mpyea tArtis Magm Liber V1L Prometheus Tarsus IV. be moved: so indeed as a cylinder to cer so the height of the pole is raised, at any rate of the year parallel to the Sun in any no matter how irregular the fuperficia with difficulty at the end; as we have more abundantly in lib. we marveled: what an absolutely wonderful thing it is, and I have learned to go hither and thither. It is also gathered, by which reason of this cylinder also the rest of the circle, which he reflects, on the clock that they may be slandered; let them make straight lines five circular, and finally five cones case And here it should be briefly noted that I went beyond the ellipse, and the circle, and left fe Diones, use hyperbola and parabola, cy they are not willing to agree to a false faith; however, I would project the light from the reflections I will destroy you with the rays, so with the cones, prepare I say that I am akin to hyperbole and hyperbole: as they hardly make any mechanical difference I can be found among them; I don't know what to do hyperbolicietiamicylindricaaffedctfedio: all these things to him who is the greatest gift of all things um experience has flowed, more clearly they will be clear, than I, even with the words of the fool, to be able to bear And here are the things about Theorematice Catoptricre noftrre Gnomo We have anticipated the nic dodrina to be anticipated; by which they are well understood, Eafagaci Ledori an open field of endless inventions ture, I have no doubt, see what is said about the above which is recorded in Arte noftra Anacampti ca. AN AC AMPTICIE OF ART PART OF THAT ART PROBLEMATIC With all these things in the past tIw' entrusted to the sky and they are brought into practice. CHAPTER I Woe to clocks, which reflect from plane mirrors into regular frames projected centrifts. OTA first, radio the reflection varies according to the va by polishing the bodies rum, special, in what happened, the condition as in the proceeding the bus fuse is long, con- to be trusted Or for in plain, feu fpho- the rich happened; or in cylindrical, conical fire. What kind of things, and how wonderful they are in both places it will be revealed in the fruitful ones. Notafe cundus, flat also, in which reflection three times is threatened, in two ways, smoke; or for it is projected on regular planes, of any kind horizontal, vertical, mere plane rope dian, polar, occidental: A Nacamptic logia does not differ from a Phciatheric one runt, nififolo fito, &pofitione, nothing liudfunt, nifi inverfa some horology or dinars Or it is projected on an irregular plane, with which the various planes are easily mixed, with the cervatione of divers fuperficierum con they blow How can both be broken? It is now time to teach, areflexisex plain fpeculis entered into regular fuperficies of that kind. But they are promised more fo- lito hypothefes, poftulata Hypothefes, Poftulata. II. Every bit of cutting, reflection nis, the same as the center of the world must III. The plane of some of the Catoptrician clocks it is only from the center of the world the weight of the reflection floats from the plane, in what happens is the reflection of the rays. IV. The reflection of the ray is the same in the deli by the absence of the coleftian circles, which The sun shines through the top of the flower plane The difference is that here let him do it in the first order. V. Reflexion of the ray to the motion of the Sun he is terribly moved. Reflection of the Sun from a cylinder, or cone it will bear the parallel of the Sun. VII. The reflection of the sun's rays from the plane of the Specuum
the suit imitates the movement of the day, from the cylinder dricis, and cones proper. VIII. The angle of reflection is so small, what is the angle of elevation of the Sun for the horizon in the horizontals watches: In others, however, so much, quan the angle between the plane of the mirror, and cent the third Anacdmi)tc theory. the central ray of the Sun. A reflection of femperfitinoppofitum a lata in fact, a perpendicular ref. X. The reflected ray from the mirror of the horizon dripping, in a vertical plane defcri- bet the clock either vertical or downward nans, or the eastern meridian, or oc XI. A reflected ray from a vertical mirror parallel to the horizontal plane horizontal XII. Reflection of the sun's ray from the mirror to the axis of the world being inclined, instead of a plane, in which refled, difpofition of the clock he writes XIII In no time the catoptric clock turns more than ix hor monftraripof let it be Theorems The rays of the Sun are reflected in the sphere of the Specu the light falls parallel to the horizon, re bent light on the opposite wall, I will make a line Indeed, the sun was confounded in the roof, in tro on the other hand, the cones of pitch De- see the monflration of this in lib. pro- theory z. In every reflection, the finifles are on the right, the lower, the lower, the lower from con tra, finiflra right, inferior fuperiora, in turn back If the Sun passes through a circle parallel to the equator let it proceed, and it becomes a plane, into which the ray re the bend falls, in the largest circle, which ba- Contingent end of the conic fuperdciere parallel, the light will be from the center to the plane project fcdio coni, dida parabola De- mouflraturlib. Prothcor. z I heor. If the Sun through a circle parallel to the equator to proceed, and it becomes a plane, into which the monis, or the reflected ray falls, in a circle most of all, whether or not the cone of fruiting is parallel light, the shadow of the center will be projected like &luX reflexes, hyperbole Demonflratur citato instead of Theon If the Sun passes through a circle parallel to the squatter let it proceed, and it becomes a plane, into which even a ray reduced by the top of the gnomon, or reflected the ray falls from the same center; plane I mean the largest circle, and not even mustaches parallel to each other, nor touching them, nor quefecanti, sequidiftans; ate the projeda cen three shadows, figs and reflected light, ellipses. cited instead of Theor, Light and shadow surround the motionless crowd when the body of the opofites was moved by lations, de- they will hit the shadowy cone, the light is fixed again. bent lamp The sun is outside the equator wherever I give it to you, a ray of the Sun, and I come the shadow of the vertices of the phthyl, in a curved line for it is thrown, it is made, and the ray is reflected, which com munis fedio cft plane clock, conic: of fuperficia; whose mustache is parallel to the parallel lo Solisoppofitus, cited in place of Theor. The demonstration of these theorems see also in the Gnomonica noftra Catoptrica
SS6 Great Art Book VII. Prometheus Part IV Profit I. Problem I Horologium Anacampticum Aflronormcum deli in a regular plane parallel to the horizon deny Therefore, having previously given the meridian line in at any level, according to the rules in Horo- traditional graph, horizontal clock PEFG, Aftronomicum, and that's a favor regulanoftrae Gnomonica, feu Sciatheri- ce, or any other practice handed down there; so men, as an hourly line from the center of the hour the Sciatheric logia, on the opposite side, in Au-, they should turn, as you see here. What fi from A, in the place of the foot, erect some support to height of the Sciatheric phytyl, in R fum- with half of it you apply a piece of the mirror, as the plane of the Mirror R, the primary vertical becomes parallel to the plane, you will have a clock Anacampticum, five reflexum, which qua- you rebuke The demonstration of the matter is clear from the conflict the chronology of Sciathericus in the cited place pofita: eftenim nilaliud, nifihorologium horizontally inverted; which they would do the rays return to LMNO, passing through the Mirror R in the Sciatheric plane poft wall DAE, the reflex only does this on the plane opposite to it EDGF CoroMarius TTInc is clear, horology of all kinds, Yes- which refer to the lines of the first movement, to this horizontal clock next to the laws in The Sciatherics were brought down to offer, the same in
this Anacamptic clock reflected, which in Sciatheric direfto radio demonftraru- shave Ccretaria II On the other side of the clex you will draw the Sciathericus: I say fire, fire support hours verfiise Borea's shadow fua oftenfurum in the plane dtohrde- r j. p Sciathenco; fus Auftrum in the Anacamptic plain eafderh to demonstrate It is also clear that the search lest the same apex of the phytyl should be in the opposite plane of the fimul, &fciatherice, anacamptice hours ftret: be, indeed, the special ball of the bee in this place you will be impoverished, for here, and the shadow was and by reflection in opposite planes both he will start Qo vallarium however, in the horizontal plane from the Sun il- Horar-l0m it can hardly be seen, in a double way it will be nifeftabitur: the first, the natural fit of the place thus ft adapted, so that the plane of Anacampticum as monfirt be a plane with the hand, or with a shade in any place shadows, for let me become a ray of light that was not there before he appeared, and soon the shadow passed with one of the stools in time the point will become clear, which it was repaid Profit Problem II. Anacamptic clock tAftronomi- when in a regular plane, that of the vertical pri mario parallelumjit, to bear T Let then the plane of any vertical pri- marius equidiftant according to the rules in ho- rography, various traditions, clocks um vertical Aftronomicum, Italians with, Babylonian, or Cujufcum- of another kind; so, however, that linee horarie from the center tes, let them reflect the top vertical ridges on the contrary, as you see in the example. When I finish fi in O so far from the plane ABCD, that is, how much in the fciatheric clock gio apex phtyli juxta hypothefim. of this from the same vertical plane it stinks; you will have a clock anacam- rticate a. optical perfection: for the light of the Sun L, nacampti- ftat in the anacamptic plane ABCD, that the shadow of the peak of the phytyl in the same vertical plane below the pla whether CDEF, continued, in which vertical fciatheric will be deli- unborn When I was on that plane I scarcely dignified the reflected light he puffs poflit, the place in which the horological tur, must be closed, fpeculumqiie itadifpo- not in the horizontal plane; In order to end pediment re'eept from the Sun's rays in to throw the poltm of Yelfiin further It was drawn on a portable tablet, a leaf hand shadow to reflected light it will be suffocating. Corollary. TTlnfcpatet, everything, which is fciatheric vertical, they like to show the shadow fty- li, the same reflected light from a mirror on a plane anacaihptico defribnftratUraih; when to use it is only an inverse hotology fciathericum flt. Profit III. problem Western aftronomic, or whatever al of the third kind, in the meridian plane to outline with difficulty. Now, as in the proceedings, the fiibfidio king las noftrseSciathericas, or any other the practice brought forth in the first book, the clock Eastern and Western in the opposite square nis Ortum, Occafum procisely refpicien- simfpecu- tibus, but still gio orhnta- trario. When this was done, he broke the axis of the world ncrocci- plane particle of the Mirror, (as only a I got my teeth p]an0 lacks the anacamptic, as much as the apex of the clock of the Sdatheric from the fuo. plane) thus fix it so that it becomes parallel to the polar plane; ha you will drink at any hour. Note however in this place, with a double Mirror at this hour loggias are completed; indeed, on one side of the axis on the eastern side of the world, on the other side of the same river the western region; of which indeed forenoon, this afternoon hours will tell Of the manufacture of this watch, Hope with each fltu, see more in the fruitful ones. Profit IV. Problem Anacamptic polar clock in plains eastern i western fuperficieimeri-, di ance aquidijlantihus de litte are T TOrdlogium polare anacamptic here Prophus coincides with the meridian; Sfl the Mirror, too, from before, will have nothing diverge Why, indeed, did I go to the polar plane? He does not like the way the clock is carried: Ra It is because the Sun's ray is the object of this object the plane was prevented from touching the Mirror he does not want Additionally, the reflected light in
this plane is not so comfortable for the eyes because to throw qu; s all expert Lefior better will conceive, which I will bear to many flm. Profit V. Problem V. Horologium anacampticum xquinoSltale in to draw a plane parallel to the water line. One atquinoftial plane double flt, upper, lower; double too I looked at the clock like this blessing, is required So let it be on the level where parallel to the squatter, that is, lower and to the fupetior, the Sciatheric clock inverted noiftial; Speculiq; pia-noc particles no quinodial parall: it is fixed in such a way that only -apiano anacamptico lacks, as much as the apex. atheric; and you will accomplish what I have written Note, however, that this kind of clock is a duck the field has some inconvenience re, which, as stated in the preceding paragraph, neither ra let the Sun comfortably receive the Mirror, and the light, too, did not blind my eyes comfortably let C or odarium FTInc is clear, how, given any flat, five declining, five not declining nate, in it the Anacamptic clock of prefers linear For if in a given plane hortf- simspteu- Decrypt the inverse log of the given plane competent, and given the nantibt'g particle of the tip You fixed yourself in the mirror, you did not trust the ephedra at all you will enjoy And this about regular let the nacamptics be busy: Artis Ariacampticce heoria. CHAPTER II. On tiAnacamptic clocks cptibufcuncjue in given irregular Mbufois the fuperficiebtu of drawing The very least here and there on the way of horology to strike in the plains of the king in the ovens However, what ra the rbufui efle polish because in many advantages, I asked their delineation or run polish Why do you trust them to one? a more reliable method to be carried out ca Let's turn the page. That before fa let's say: First of all, the police I looked into this chapter to pay attention, there is no reason for any internal plane being held not And it will be a threefold desire of the Mirror, ho horizontal, vertical, St polar Horizon such is the desire of the Mirror, when I become a Mirror then he obtains the equidiftant of the horizon. Vertical, with a vertical plane. Polaris de- Mfflin fine He entered tt necejja- rich
Jirtis magne Book VIl. Prometheus Part IV well, with the polar plane squidiftiterit. if therefore the plane of the interior of any wall, or tholi, he was of such a confection, as ma on the other side of the wall then Ortus, or Occatum, A mirror made of the most comfortable material will be strengthened If I give a horizontal wall of any the inner mouse of Borea, and the wings of Ortus, And when they opened their mouths, they were very comfortable The mirror will get vertical. Yes in short, the walls, the fire walls of each one they reflected the interior of Ortum and Occafum, no matter how irregular the pla nis, the mirror will have a polar shape, i. e it is, the axis of the world will be fixed Therefore judgment is needed for the plain, in qqae re The bent ray of light tends to be differentiated. Yes Indeed, reflecting the plane of Borea, use conveniently let the rays from the mirror be vertical then, having obtained the reflexes, he receives them; so that the same rays made horizontal by the Mirror having obtained the reflexes of receiving the profuse ine it is You will not judge others. It should be noted that it is fruitful; whereas the inner truth the walls diverge, &unequal- lis, and have a varied mixture of planes, and in them it becomes so improbable that horology is difficult, bringing about an unpleasant remnon turos ftudiofo Ledori, to outline a fruitful practice in the Sciatherics traditional others will need to be affected by it rum with the help of the faithful Wall: They are of the same kind as the builders cam in Aflronomia noftra reflexa, feu Gno we taught Monica Catoptrica, namely Nacamptic, Azimuthic, Optical. Anacampticum will boil with hourly lines, and inferiben by parallel pegs push Azimuthic circles with the benefit of the horizon zontals and verticals we will infer to the same. Finally, that's the job of an optician, to us anacamptic plain unaccelerated, removed the mockery of the hours and the pawns it will snow, so that it will be clear in the fruitful ones. Problem I nflrumentwm anacampticum confiruere.
UT in all things lawfully and properly in foreign affairs, certain I will give the organs, which they commonly call infratruments tur to work more easily au they are flooded with water; make it easier to facilitate the reflexion of clocks memory of that hero no external PUS fme devices fa- the Neridian OR, is erected, as in the figure Imbushemiciruli folio di OSR; who in pun io O, the square ABCD is made in the weight R, it must be strengthened, and foliated, so as to [whenever it is removed. After these things, from ho- aogenous material hemicircular leaf in degree divifusexfeindatur, which in Iartcs, you have been together for sixteen hours from the center of the hour per pound of slaughter, hourly man in them, you will distribute accurately. In the predatory figu- from the semicircle they report QAS: here I continue semicircular leaf, red line SQ square ABCD, vertebra GH, so to be joined together will be in the QS plane, and be connected to it in such a way fi in working, its dif the difficulty of some traditional we would have we preferred And so the matter business Defcriba there in copper, sere, wood, or any other matter lolida, a square, which le is in the prefect's figure CABD: night square into two parallelograms ma, is divided by a line am QS In this manner before them the leafy border is ready of any airline butt in degrees exactly from the rich, to the redos from weight below the line your doors on hinges OSR's tail end is at the user's discretion, now to be lifted up, now to be depressed. I n S and co let the chlea be, to the semicircle QAS, fupra fe to confirm the OSR microcircle. To them also properly prepared, radiant Zodiac, feu ho- less mobile, by which it is made he was wounded; To the size of the hemidiameter the semicircle OSR, or even the semicircle Q AS, the bisector of the semicircle ABC, is bisected living quarters along the line CO you will strike degree with min. from limbo tis OSR, or semicircular QAS, traduc' in the bow of the CED out of pun Artis Anacamptia Theofia.
from point F, uCrinqueverfusC, and these two points (which are nothing else, which the extreme pundta declines the greatest tion of the Sun) con junges CD reta li denial With these facts, ex Eveluti centro, ch i culus was written down per pound CD, di- vifusin zq. squas parts (of course hunger pangs things; be a quarter tes fignorum, in finally be whole so much, in iz. fo- lummodd equal parts. of this two things like pundta squalitera, D, removed, fi are joined by straight lines, the lines AF are parallel, fe they will fit those arc CFD, those in the points, per which, from the center A, are the radii of the signs of the Zodiac they are leading And so I am bound to the two rays you will make the radiant Zodiac, whose the equatorial middle line, the two extremes the tropics, and finally, the intermediates between the tropics and the equator they will refer to the pots. This further prepared in this way Apply QAS to the zodiac, the semicircle twice: the line which is in the middle of the Zodiac it is, to the thickness of the mobile semicircle approx you go, cutting off some part, near the center in the point A, and it in the semicircle you will be so immovable as to re- dtos fertile hemicircle from here on He wants to be moved, one half part in the more ferocious, the other reflecting the fuerier: but let this Zodiac be punished around him M, a snail, like the bottom line of ali what hourly appetite is desired to be established; or if you prefer, the same Zodiac stretches out its legs I was able to be fixed in the center of the semicircle. True, the former method is more accurate mom Finally, the southerly line for OMR, the semicircular OSRacusmagne- ticaciftulsinclufa, it is assumed that reason, as have a maximum magnetic ratio a pole of declination; and you will have an intrument then the reflexorium prepared: Whose which the wire ABCD is parallel to the horizon, and right next to the four quarters of the world, ho horizontal refers to a plane: on the other hand, planes fi is put parallel, that plane, to which Spe- what he sneezes, he reports. Semicirculifolii The border of the OSR is the southern border gall through the poles of the world and the vertices ctum tranfeuntum, reprafentabic Seeds
but the leafy circle QAS the south Or, I mean the edge of the semicircular OSR mo then, and confirmed, the equinoctial reflection, I was turned into a deprefation, or an elevation it will offend In short, Z was radiant the hour of motion of the equinoctial circle rium mobile, together with the projectile ra of the solar gods during the clay hours, So I will build the beginnings of the vines, refer- But the center of the semicircle is the red line reflecting the axis of the world, center of the world, fire near Theor. earlier part of the river, the tip of any flower, or while reflecting: therefore intrumen- we finished the tumanaca. mpticum, which was to be done Problem Another inJiruYnen of reflexes to crush it. It was carried into the cultivated area, copper, or wooden, circles ABCD in sharks divided parts, fire in qua drantes in lubdivifus: in the center of which another hemicircuius MCN, anterior hemicirculus sharks, in degrees, fire two quarters you are rich, itaexaiteimponatur I will complete the circle ABCD, and libe re, attached to this pedicle R, in the center circle ABCD he is a ruler, as appears in the figure; around itufquefra a certain degree trocheola in M, or to be fixed; havebifqueinflru- the prophesied chin is ready: he will have au tem this intrumentum influentum ufum in vertical and horizontal; figuti&irt the lines of the houses of the clefts and the clocks bent to inscribe, for Conftituto, ver bi grace, the circle ABCD, together with the fire with a moving ass near the plane of the Mirror a parallel, for example, a plane ho the perfection of the horizon, and the magnetic needle di- reit inflrumento; you will see, a circle also motion, to refer to nothing else than vertical hemicircles from the puny vertices carried away, and the horizon everywhere to an injuring the throats of the guilty, all of whom the center is the center of the horizon. Gr dus, however, in a movable semicircular fignatiejuf dem hemicycle surrounded by motion ho- Mmm z' rizon O zArtis Magm Liber FIL Prometheus fars IV, decribent parallels on the horizon, whose non- nfirumentum optical to pretend. Nagefimus falls on the ipfumZenith, fu po light of the horizon feupundum vertices termi nature But there are many things about this loss ci ufu more below, when from his progeny we will declare Problem cavity staff transfer DC (any then to the staff AB in fubdupla becomes pro portion) is placed on that account, as in the concave canalisSN, as if on a certain hinge for the movement, now depressed, proved to be unrelieved it pops with the comfort of the tooth: He took a screw with his nose I'll transfer it to the CD, I've already decided by elevation, autpreffion, infuofitu fir introvert; the staff was transferred further the fur near the middle of the fur, the length that crena some, feu cira both in D, C dug out, as a bracelet (which nothing else flows but Alhidadat, feu li Nea: of confidence, you were diopters, as in the examples appears, inft rudas. for practitioners, operation ORsparetus elignofolid staff figure round, or square, fex or even odo, or ten feet long, fuftenta- with some ass, fire with foot B to firmly im- and to be intruded in a mobile manner: to this with the stick prepared, I curfew the thing, and roll it with fire lum GSEH, so you will coapt the third day, as ad ipfam staff whatever fraud five squares it was five round, no the snow is painful, and join from here on I must be an artist the decision of the thief deorfumquc turn around can be moved; which was due to laxity some state didus curfor the staff would retreat embrace to be invented fet, forced that by co chleam, to him a la grind into this one I will attach it. Volvulus so that, fire curvo I will tell you about it coaptation staff AB ar of the united, a la grind SH out of iron copper, or other things channel material SN firmly attached in which and with the rising of the snow fint, and screws, having a certain fit, I believe that it is established. To all of these so properly you will have an optical illusion perfidious to dido sooner, as in the frequent we will see the bus, in any quantity gular, obfcura wall fuperficia, horolo
any catoptric unaccombina- parallel lines with great difficulty while To this also a strange business in mo while Mefopticus was burning inwards chin book handed down. The truth about this ufu, application, see Magic Horo- a graphic, where his ufuf in the hours refle We have handed over the profilos to you. trdxis in- of wrath; I was exhausted for hours bmiis tArtis Anacamptkfi Theory. On the use of a mirror in a horizontal plane. Problem oAjfixed a flat piece of mirror to each one on the horizon vertical reflection flash in any op- draw a vertical parallel to the wall. C It is a small plane ABS, parallel to the horizon lelum: fpeculum indeed placed in St let the center of the plane project the reflected ray into opposite the shadow, the house of acalycus the inner wall I'm talking about the alarm clock gium reflected vertically to be drawn poflein I gave it to the wall. For having received the injurious thing flxorio, which in the first problem the first, and above the plane ADBC thionepophyte, as the center of the hemicircle QAS, let it rest exactly in the center of the fpeculi; therefore be near the meridian line with the help of a magnet draw the square ADBC; manifested efthocfit intrumentum with femicircu- lo QAS to complete the elevation to obtain a pole given a lofty position, fphjene reflected, with which the clock defcri trust us to drink, so that we may drink at will. I will therefore go forth with the intrument, and lift up the fe degree for example, the height of water The Romans, whom the degrees of tibemicirculus OS R, which is the fimulus of the semicircle QA S, and oftforifque degrees to which they were raised must, functions as a function, will fool Stand therefore, with all the spoil, then mainly cochlear, adhemicircular OSR, confirmed by the semicircular QAS, hours unoppo- you can write on the wall. Radiant zodiac TV, which serves as a mobile clock officially, at hour n. or or another although the QAS is drawn in a semicircle, should be advanced, the thread from the center through any line in the Zodiac radiofoTY, the rod should be extended to the wall in that way, as neither too low nor too high, fed by shaving only the rays of the Zodiac fupcrfi- the sky lightly pierces: with which the smoke fades with the care of the wall, into which the wire from running, he offered himself: I will finish this; and noted properly in the wall of the pund, the first perfection execution Again remaining in the Zodiac diofo in the same way as before, of course near the hour line n. first. auf x in fe QAS marked with a small circle, and with it immovable at rest, to any other line am in the dido zodiac figured from the center fe QAS micirculi, by shaving the dust of Zo diaci fuperfliem (which is impofterum in om with the help of the son they will accomplish other operations so that we are not forced to repeat the same thing over and over again it must be removed) to the wall and from you tend and he met with a marked weight, whether We said to you, be two pounds in the first, jam found a fruitful operation, draw a line conjoined; you will have the first, eleven mother, and the ninth hour, for example. Zo the deacon is hungry at eleven o'clock, fa- and give a drawing, as it has been done, inci tooth reflected ray of light, Sun in cir ass of the eleventh hour congested, in the fpec it is parallel to the horizon, in the pound M placed in the center of the semicircle, intersecting; in the shady wall at eleven o'clock, ju Mmm fada Artis mavm Libet VII. Prometheus Part IV the fable already needs a line. for let the Zodiac be moved for an hour the top, cxtenfoquefiio, double cloud there will be sharks of teeth and reflection, and not sharks: fcd hsc all involve contra- dictum, and they are contrary to Theor z. peration through two lines each juxta ergomanet, squatter reflexum grad. elevation of the Romanian squatter Marked, a wire is drawn to the wall in each direction, marking the appropriate width of the clock carefully pundta, in which thread from the center he runs into the ground, offering: for through this for example, you will draw two putnfta fi net, you will have an hour drawn on the wall: to be fixed at the ninth hour you will move Zodiac TV, linesp, infemi-
circuloQAS, inventive double punftis of the thread, made near the triangle, stretched out ad The wall is made in each direction, and the points are refla con you will join, you will have hours just finishing the remaining hours you will grow up; therefore, What was the demon to break See figure below country people; who will guide you in your work. Dernonftratio intrumento infitupropofi- plagia directo, equa- torinftrumenti, who eftfemicirculusQAS- on the plane of the squatter's cleft, I was thrown into the fire (we said all of them cir the reflected butts, which reflected because of the light the inverted fion of the wild there; of which we have here lefto- the matter, lest the voices should surround him in reading giving back, slow in operation rent) semicircular but QAS, feusqua- reflected tore, refte this fit placed fidemonftro For when according to Theor. pri every reflection of the part of the mouth should be in the opposite direction refle part from the perpendicular of the fuperficia xion, but the squator is reflected next to Theor. the first of this was only from the perpendicular abfcedac of the performance of the reflection, how much di the right is removed from the same, both tan then what is the height of the Roman squatter? tio, the completion of the height of the pole of course grad. from the perpendicular tooth: therefore, and both of them were made genuine he will obtain, the latter with straight lines, the latter with reflexes convenient; therefore, be the squatter reflex then the diredlo will obtain the opposite of the squatter, of course through the semicircular QAS, to di- the first degree of elevation promoted. Don't and bring him to the fortieth hour I have been raised to a level that is genuine to obtain, therefore it is supposed to be raised to degree therefore Sole Roms in the ascator of the word gratiaconflituto gradib elevated: therefore the reflected ray will base the angles, then ele to the satisfaction of the squatter, as well as to his completion sharks: therefore they trien from a perpendicular line the throat of the fuperficial reflection will be divided into two I would divide, and not bifurcate: therefore the angles to obtain figs. In addition, when near hy- the first of these, and Theor. i pun of the reflection of the fpeculi the same cenferi blessed is the center of the world, the needle of the squatter; therefore the Sun in a squatter conflicted, reflected it is necefe to convey the same ray in pa riete that which he would bear, fi penetra to fpeculo in the lower wall of the ray a flower would be thrown, as inz. iz. de- monflravimus, fola diferepanfia fafta in inversion of the clock, therefore 8ccentrum fpe the ass is also well connected. Further Colurusfolftitiorum, horariufque mobile, Fire Zodiac radio, TV, to lingulas ho ras delatus, of the hourly clay get the world's poles transfeunt made bit and, finally, the rays of the trees of the Zodiac meters of the Ecliptic, in so far as they are common feftions ipfius, and meridians at the beginning of the midday they will weigh Why the square plane of the Meridians, then the extension should be conceived wall on each side, he will make a line on the wall the rarity of that hour, that is the common cir the ass of that horary with the murofeflion, fu for which it happened that he was promoted. And this is why we are working double hours we have presided over the infernal. For that Mobile TV schedule, Zodiac radio I was on the bus QAS has been fixed with a small circle. The zodiac is deep, the hourly fire moves him Neceflarid will obtain the status, which he obtains hourly prediTus in heaven, to whom too much the rum is parallel; he would run to the wall in either direction, and express: the same line in it which he would express The hourly circle of the cleft runs into the wall rent With a real moving wall clock he cannot touch it, as the oar is from him tus, and hence the line at the beginning cannot be marked it is done; We wanted to represent it through fi each light from the center to each side extenfum, a mobile scheduler as a deputy; for I handle the thread for that reason, as a piece of wool let the difti of the hourly mover lean freely, fi per With the help of the wire two punctures marked on the wall were reflamed you have drawn, a line will refer to you as a circle schedule I said two punches no not that they do not wish to be noted more with one continuous line of wire in the wall
the whole time line is drawn, indeed, the pun is infinite fta to the same function of the mobile schedule leaning freely on the wall fint demonstrate operation mtm infra meitto per- afta um Artis Anacamptick T beortd. fint, all of which will be fub the same reda li nea, the fire of the point of fluxusveluti extenfa: fed I said only two points to be noted; as well as shorter operation, and greater with compen it would be expedient for God; and because the operation of other to be punished in a single way how much which should be well noted. Furthermore, gnorum radii in horario mobiledefcript, fi with the help of the wire to the wall in each direction, they will tell him that he was punished on the wall, inquire the bent ray from Mirror E, the Sun in the given circle with a horary ass, and with the beginnings of the trees be projected Therefore, on this account, the clock the whole will be crushed, the mobile hyorar to lingulas hours is meant, ife translate shot Therefore, That was the propofkum. School What is more, in the early days of the clock spring tical crushing method they are vandals. First, as an instrument, how much fnftrumcnti ficripotell; , in a firm place, I was in the center of the fire neceffkrit, ftabilitar For when the ray is reflected in He trembles invincibly, the defeat of which that however little, and indiscriminately the motion, the ray, also, together with the pu it will lead to giving errors. Second, as the center of the fpeculi in the center as best as possible yesterday, ex- Let the adiffimc refponde; that we should protect ourselves in this matter he will poll yesterday: already sketched out a catoptric clock on the wall to that end, a fpeculum was pundto him, in which the center of the intrument is fixed, and she is undressed applied, as a ray reflected in an hour, degree of the Sun, dtefadto addifces) in which then Sol to be turned, soon to be thrown; I love this after the race was over, then he will have, and no further in his redtihca- you will work on fed it or wax (as vul go Hifpanicam) or other obstinate, Antiglutinofa materiamox will strengthen. Problem V. The frame of the pawns will be preceded by a warm clock. with the patrimonial help of the intrument of the Anacampticus fire reflexoriiincribere. A Reus of pawns, fire parallel to the Sun nil and in the beginnings of the sun, he was crammed circumscribed, all at the fourth parallel: who, by what reason in da to the level of Let us see how they will be drawn. Note, therefore, first, with the planes of the Zodiac radiofi, feu hourly mobile fuperficies ad the wall was extended on either side of the aforesaid caufa he does not want, he does not care, so that their com- functions with the wall, and points, per which arc the signs of the Zodiac God, the favor of the son, or the optician's intrument Probe III. for profit, or in other ways Gen. We are content with the two former, that is we will arrange them accordingly. Zodiac radiofus. feuhorario mobile at o'clock he was promoted in a semicircular flight, with that fat it is well established. Expunfto vero S fi- ft. Now thinly, as we have said before, to the wall ar' and let those garments be cast out, as the thread of pia- numipfius of the movable hour T, V, freely ra- delineated a tooth, he must always lean upon it. Namphifilumr it is applied with linguine rays note Arti mavrn Book VII. Prometheus Part IV Sf and they will be noted for the fumma diligence pun&a in wall, a straight line marked by punda duda will give the meridian line, hour n. amc- ridie, the middle node indicating Moto then to the first hour of the hour, or the eleventh marked in the semicircular luo: let's ride the same thread shaving and leaning on clay beams punished by the same pegs on the wall, by Quse line hour i. velx they must be led. then, move the mobile clock to z I would rather an hour, and for a while You will be punished for breaking the wall and every wire for the beginnings of the pawns at hour z. or i o. the same which account shall be taken of all other hours, as in they polish the wall to fall, this is, whose punished, with a wire scraping the plane of the clock, in mu ro polish notar That was punished by radiation rum, which is at different hours for each son they will rewrite the notes, properly connected with the lines
a little bent; I am also a son of a cripple the arc of the sun He will run through the gates of your house. error not elt, in the correct line ca they give, necelfe elt; that is, in the common age of the fourth, with the plane of the clock, using Theor. We have demonstrated the former demonftrat Theodofius lib. prop. For the rest, I am punished with the same bows rum also by other methods, and to such an extent that when we will draw the ipfos, there are no hours by reason For it is a mobile schedule to various parts of the semicircular QAS, little between fe dilatantes, in clay polishes thread some were punished on the wall for plastering we note that all pawns will be found she was punished, even if she had been kept in no one's garden system And indeed the more frequent they were intervals in a semicircle, fire moving water tore QAS, in which the mobile schedule is washed away; the more frequently punished, less among fe diltants for clay pots; and for thence the bow of the ipfi, the children of the children are more ready they will be led Another method of drawing di&owm arcs due to the optical damage jUbd fi further a wall some one of course, irregular, difcontinuous acen tro fpeculi (to be used in the interior of houses, of rooms, vestibules, and other lo- n large number of them would most likely run out, too One of the remote: the drawing of the clock is difficult JervTin- fubfid son will be able to accomplish. That's the wire ftrumenutm In this cafu I will stretch a little further, easily the best curved, and curved towards the direction of the refle projection, which refers, failing, in- otherwise correctable errors of the clock he wants to introduce Why, to this evil re- hil not in Mathematical difficulties pe by us, supporting us, He did something; whose ufus than becomes more excellent, and how infallible, from the frequent the bus will appear brightly. So let there be a great number of walls gularity obvia, us fubfiaio inllrumenti no less easily with any irregular fu- finish it, make it completely red, and flat, ho let us cut down the ras and the bow of the pawns, he who it is done, just Let it be, for example, three o'clock in the dida irregular fuperficio of the wall running to be drawn with a reflective instrument diredo: promote the mobile schedule, feu Radiant Zodiac at o'clock in the thigh the mobile circle QAS, marked; and established there, an optical instrument wall between a reflective intrument will be placed; as it appears in the figure, by drawing the wire next to it the rays of the gnomes from the center S, of the Zodiac the case leaning freely to the staff in either direction transfer the CD, which by raising it, lower it by lying and twisting in various ways, thus the Zodiac turn on the mobile TV, to do the same thing, jux- let the staff of the CD get a living taline, ad ho a rare mobile, the fiery Zodiac T V, in the same fint plane. Where to buy to, you will fasten the optic rod DC, screw you are approaching this end from the side. Bra but a closet juxtaposed, and a projection of the rays in the Zodiac rum, you will direct a living ray, like a thread from the cen tro through the rays of the duduiii, through the arms also diopters, feu pinnacidia viforiadi- red crossing, red line can be seen By which fado, it is manifest, bra the truth of the hour, the fire of the zodiac to obtain the result of reflection. That was done, in short, by force your shaft shall be placed among the moving table, and a little optical damage, and by arms dioptras punda, in quse vifus it fell on the wall, you will notice; manifested it is that little punda, in which, the Sun begins to mold after the third hour, the radium re the bending will be reflected; quse fi redd conjunxe ris, you will have the fimul drawn three times then I was like that. Then do the same operation do not be infatuated in the closing hours, and the signs of the Zodiac marked on the wall, you return you will have conjoined, you will have outlined in any regardless of the irregularity of the wall a log together with parallel pegs in that the reflection of the sun falling on the sun God will show all these things, like the shadow of Gno advice on any level is not uncommon. Quodfiforfan quifpia by the defect of the eyes he would be bored, so that he could not distinguish the living punda to be marked on the wall, nodufubfidio lu by threats, by feucandelse it may be done treacherously.
For if within the Radiant Zodiac, in- let us mediate, perfect optics, and optical instruments, bracelets, can Horcgraphia eAnacamptica. How did you place those clothes, lifting them up? depressing, and twisting in every direction; fitumM until the diopters of the clawed arms candle let the shadow of the heart depart; easy place in which the union of shadows from two diopters The projecting arm has been made, the elTe of the knee whether the place on which the sun's ray is reflected The sun at the beginning of its setting, which the ray through The arm rests directly on the wrist, it falls. Note, however, the shape of the bows of the fignor I will go to the bottom of the lines, which is in a vertical clock; September three liainim figna from Yufqueadss, from here to lower part of the clock; Australia &hincadT inferior ob they will hold in the vertical catoptric clock: We have given a demonstration of this matter in Theor. ix. prior, lib. Gno monica catoptricse Everything is better now they will be able to trust from the previous figure. But if you trust to have a daily bow, prat- Parabisradiofus Zodiacum, such as the book We taught: you affix this in the Anacampticus the damage to the mobile roofer; and then you will proceed, just as in the pawns li We carried them off; and you will have some fat Corollary TC X some of the immovable property At the same time, one of the wheels of the year scciefiafli- and the folemnitatum of the Ephemeris, in He likes to order these clocks according to the Zodiac. tem, which degrees of declination from the equator So issue, together with the crepusculars every year in time, in quantity, and many things besides nature and medicine according to the years, and the quality of the parts of the Zodiac, the vigor of herbs and plants at certain times of the year times to be noted, together with the election the bus can be represented by the more common ones poffint: in a word, all that is Gnomonic phyfico-aphtrological we have delivered, to be brought here poffint Problem VI. Qtculos verticales, feu lines zAijmutb dido clock, fubjidio injlrumenti the degrees of the semicircle refer to the line ex in the center by the aforesaid steps, common feCtions of the horizon, and the vertices of the circles lyum And so I want to eat step, that is is the meridian line, the semicircle of the MSN mind, and from the center of the thread a kind of semicircle, called Azymuth The mobile device can be used freely bat, x. or as many punches as you will fasten: per for here, if you bring fire and am, you will have Azy muth carried away in the plane of the clock, which, indeed, from the south with Azimuth femper coineidet I am again promoting the femi circle to or degrees, use us here and stretched out to the wall on both sides the fuperficieum of the semicircular MSN thread, i. or more, you will note the pundta: for by this, if you lead the way, you will have Azimuth ante, or poft meridium ho rte iz. self-defeating I promote it again mobile Azimuth MSN, to degree ad I gave the fuperficium of the hemicircle to the wall, uf which I stretch out with a thread to make my face pricked, that I may be straight conjoined, you will have Azimuth quaffi- then For no other reason do you act in transgressions with the help of iiifcriben- dis. So you have registered the Azimuth in the clock on the eastern side, to those on the western side bringing you down too, with which the death is you will proceed That there be some irregularity, and difeontinua m uri fuperfi cies occcurret, per do the operation of the optical fiber fideo, to use in Probi. V. on the inference of the bond we taught rum. Azimuthals further circu- I stumble upon the well-inferred by the clock, to bring the Aymuthic. Ofce circles, feu lines, fubfidio ftrumenti Azimuthalis fic in Horolo you will bear Azymu in the center of S in that ratio, as the line AB li neae exadbe refpondeat meridante Quo ippUtatio fafto encircling the semicircle NSM, ad let us be invested in any order, or fortnightly degrees carried away by the limb of a circular inftutment, (we have here advanced to the fictitious denos Dsmonjlratio TN understood the level of intrument ABDC draw the plane of the horizon, from the lines of Azymu-
Talibns killed at the rear, whose cen trum the same as the center of the fpeculi, and the center of the world near Hypothefim x of this, put it back it must be carried; but the semicircular MSN mo surrounded by bile No different Arti's mother Book VII. Prometheus Part IV It also refers to different verticals. Which therefore common faiths on the horizon tis, and vertical circles through the poles give the horizon of the advancing horizon they see, and thus the circle ABCD (when in such a police the same center ha beant horizon, k didus circle in par you are equal; and by finishing it redefine; e in the center of the division feuntes, the common fint of the vertices and the horizon: the semicircle is clear mobile MSN to the given lines, to refer the vertical as many degrees as gra a line on which the semicircle rests, a more linear; fences, vertical fire p propne di therefore it was removed. Why is the thread so long? to the wall and the rays of the Sun reflected in each direction at the same time in the vertical protect it: therefore, the thread in this the same thing will be done by your conflict, which ra day of the sun; therefore, and those points on the wall det, in which the Sun in that vertical confti- it is not safe to fall: stand upright let us return, which had to be done. But since the common faiths ver tical circles, and the plane of the clock they are parallel, (because the vertical plane primary, clock plane sequidiflet) com fortify their faith, that is, the axis of the horizon tis through the top, and I give; it is manifest that those reins, who me laughing parallels lunt, efe common fe dions of the vertical and the plane of the clock; but the vertical one is properly in the clock cannot be thrown when he is equidistant he was born Therefore, the vertical circles mouse What had to be done. Problem VII. Circles of Alrnucantarath, the fire of the heights Sunday, in the same clock. R Elidus with the destruction of the one before that we had placed the fat, promote the femU The MSN circle is fake for anyone fifteen degrees of Azimuthal in lim bo AMCBD carried away by the circle: and first Indeed, promoted by the semicircular MSN, which refers to the vertical movement of the hour ix. feu Azimuth, and a thread from the center R, by every fortnight of height gra dus in the quadrant of the MS, the semicircular mobi the MSN case was carried away, to the wall I give; They will offer you as soon as possible cta for altitudes in which the Sun at o'clock of the whole year it will be found in decurfu. This fado, promote it a semicircle, I mean a vertical mobile MSNfupra Azimuth, feu degree ex- and tie the thread through the fingers in any way give the degrees of height in the quadrant MS brought them down, and they will offer it to the dido sooner Pratdidi the steps of the heights. Promote Finally, the half-circle of the MSN left the rest of course Azimuth, high the tudinum punda, in the way it has been I pass, of course, by a thread of any sort you will raise us to the heights of the heights. the winds further circle in the clay vertical marked, fi punda fimilia i0Si, ul any to Alrnucantarath tines of the sun pertaining to slightly bent lines, or hy- you will be joined by troubles, you will have them carried away the circles of Alrnucantarath, who indeed nila- they rejoiced, how common they were of the horizontal bars, and of the horizontal plane gii, feu conic fesiones, hyperbole didgs, which Solradiofus cone from the plane interfedoin he will bring it to the plane. For in these which no matter how much the reflected ray fell, so soon So, the horizon was elevated by steps he stumbles upon them, how many steps have they taken pti The demonstration of this will not be difficult; parallels of the horizon to the vertices heat, which inflrumentum, let me use already as long as it is, in the more distant, it perfidiously relates, be lest you be perceived. In this manner Irregular would meet fuperficia, operation the fubfid of the optical intrument would be perfect give and in all other irregularities you will offer the bus of the walls: therefore parallels we have crossed the horizon. There was so much to do to go Problem Lines, feu circles of houses c(defl'mm,
terofjue circulospofitionum, in the same hour log Twofold, indeed, according to the Regio- montanifentetia, eosper commune nes of the horizon, and of the south, ix. equal parts you will bring two hundred fic. It is assumed that fit the chin with it, like a semicircular QAS, which formerly served as the equator re, he now fills the meridian shifts, as in as an example, it appears that the figures are attached here, Wow Wherefore, set up the little QAS fufra level in the OSR defcrip- then: pergrad. for example, EquatOris The elevation of the Romans to the wall of each holding the wire Doww cce-na. through this, to the horizon, perpendicular you will lead a dicular, you will have a house line, they call the middle of heaven, the heart of heaven. Hisfadis, promote the femicitcuium QAS, ad step ptum; and having secured it, pull it through the elevation degrees of the equator wire to mouse One. Horographia Anacampticd 6f riimufque, and for a long time it was noted on the wall then, fi from the weight of the horizon, linearh re you will marry a lady, you will have a house line of or Finally, you will be promoted lum fupra degree in the semicircular OSR register, and deliver the wire through elevation a waterman's step, a pound on the wall of notation, you will have line or If, however first, as before from a general massacre the horizon, and the meridian, find it by then you have already taken a pound. This one I can finish that drawing too teres, semicircular QAS, He was born on the equator rali faltatu jamfiftu. For the re-edited do intrumento, ae- quator fupra given the elevation of the fourth broad, fi from the center by o; water level the door to the wall stretch out the punda thread to be fixed, by the findings punda line from punda where the sun shines horizontal line between He did it, dude, they will give it to him Neas at home ftium This further de- clearly displayed for each of these circles it will be clear According to Campani, the method, which they were held together by the same common faith zontis, meridians, the vertical properly di- while in dividing equal parts, du cit e fic endowed with intrumentum leaders. Stand is formed by the semicircle OSR, in the plane of the ver. tical parallel; so that I will kiss the same let him obtain this campa-fitum: and the semicircular QAS, this fit will refer to the semicircular mobile home rumceleftium, an equal portion of the vertical blades I literally said that I was running through it you will move the feminicule to degrees female citculi OSR, a wire from E dudo to the wall Of course, by whomsoever the prophesied gra while in the quadrant SA, the semicircle QA, leaders at will, so that the wire freely let him lean on the thorn: with what fato, be made by the pound from the center of the horizon you will draw a line, ha you will drink the starting line of the house or Go rum promoted by the semicircle to the degree, and, as before, make a thread on each side of the wall by the found pound, from C, I led the line ris: you will have the starting line of the house or That half of the houses were unfaithful, extend the wire every fifteen degrees he will afflict the wall with smoke, through which e in the center of the line of the middle houses are two you should Corollary does not differ from the houses of the circle the law will be transferred to the plane, as hours they threaten: for as these in the poles of the world, so these in common horizon and meridian they meet: and so the schedule is equal faiths of the equator, fic houses crele- ftium diftindores by equal also water- T4erp! f! parts of the torus, or, as Campanus likes, through the houses what kind of vertical parts do the primary approach, usually There are, therefore, the lines of the houses of the clefts, ort' as to the manner of delineation, I will eat with hours, although as to the manner of indicating, fint the whole world diverged. For the hourly li they indicate the beginnings and ends of the hours, and treacherously they show: the lines I give only the beginnings of moral education, no they demonstrate the limits, the feu's boundaries: thus indeed, as a reflected ray into one of them falling, he would show Solemin his pride Excise circle, which is the beginning of it
the house of the cleft, which was brought near by numbers pretends To whom this account af- let us fix, that the sun first exiftitin of every house, than at the beginning. N n n At home sArtts' Magm Book Prometheus SPars IV. For the house cleftes are numbered from Oc cafu In Ortus Therefore, like a ray of light jus in some clock on the hour line falling, it already shows the hour of your wallet what but in some of the houses of Heaven the river fell, it showed the sun throughout I have already brought that house from the end of it each to the beginning. To be a reflected ray fall into one of these lines, for example in i o. He will show that the sun has already risen io house, at the end of &fic of other ju to be told Problem Italian Clock, Tsabjlowcum Ca- confluence with the topric, five hours from Ortu, ? Occafu Clt therefore in the analemma meridian R1 SH, whose center is K, the diameter of the hour zontis HI, vertical diameter RS, axis of the world FG, diameter of squatter MB, diame three parallels DC, diameter V, &tij? whether semicircles were cut around the didas diame others, and from where IZK, common horizons NS
zontis, and parallels, to dia give the meters of parallels and perpendiculars things are erected, KF, ZX, LO. To these fads, it will be DO the portion parallel to the earth, it is done portion of other semicircles AX, F portion veroOC, XN, FB, below. Or otherwise, OC becomes a portion of the parallelogram four times ram, but I will confide the same under the earth safe. And from this it is clear why we have omitted it here opopofita, feu meridionalia fig na: quiacum parallel and equidistant they will be removed from the matter, that of the Boreans of the vassals we say parallels, about Auftrini also as long as we want. Additionally, that day and night in the clays of the opposite fint they are completely watery, so For example, as the sun expiring for example in pa rallelo North, so many hours defcri- The arc of a day is as many as the arc of hours nodurnum defcribet, conftitutus in paral Auftrali lelo, Septemtrionali oppofito ae that receding from the equator, against: ar for ctis nodurnus is as much as it is a diurnal arc contra. But this or Imbued with slightly fpherical skills are, as they ought to be said: why do we not know let's go ahead. So semicircles that of parallels for the ratio of hours divide the semicircle DOC into jequa- les parts m pound C, from an hour of mere knots diana beginning, by the fact that the hours after they do the ceinitis from the hour of knots. For but in Italian hours, and in Abylonic hours, in feu hours from Ortu Occafu, you divide the whole circle for example feorfim in ae such portions, hours from the Ortu turn D, hours from Occafu, C, counting, a beginning with the pound O; for they represent herePDY, the daily arc of Pd, or nodur num &PCY, diurnum nodur as you see. But the hours are uneven bus, ancient fire, or planetary divisions there are thin portions of parallel lines between common to them, and to the horizon nes, and the meridian circle of the pofiia, in equal parts, and the whole daily arc 2FPDY, ficut PCY, daily arc, and three in equal parts: pound nor that, where the parallel with which dianumfecat, erithorafexta unequalis, pri then the division of the pound is turned the common belief of the parallel, &horizon- 4th and 8th hour, and I will tell you about the rest rice; why take the paradigms of efficiency. Di- but we live here only parallel And Jo, for I will divide it together with the recapturer the effectiveness of any of these clocks cile to be drawn. Therefore, to be inscribed hours from Ortus, or Occafu in the second hour with the Catoptric log, you will be worked on. Confetti Ium DPCY, in the daytime and nighttime hours from Ortu, Occafu restored the divifum juxta li neam QO, and the semicircle Q DO, so the half circle QASinftru- You will apply the Anacamptic mind as a center in the center of his semicircle QAS, lines me line DC Which Fado, a mobile clock, every hour rum from Ortu, or Occafu punda, and extend the wire by a radius of to the wall in each case, punda incidences are noted: when
in the dead hours; and completed the first work for punda found, they will be pun- dahorarum from Ortu, Occafu, in which: Sol in 25confettitutus project a reflected ray and: that you draw a wire through the radius ha you will drink with one the same operation punda ho rare from Ortu, Occafu, in which Solis in rays of conflict will fall. Again, the mobile schedule is promoted, the radiant fire of the Zodiac, not the hour jamdeferiptarum punda, fed fuper lines Delayed lit r titio registration HTS lines of hours in the limbo of the female archer the circle of QAs registered, through them tra put a wire to the wall on each side, to crash This fado, be done by any two of the hours of the children in the first, and fertile After the completion of the points, enter the row you have led the tropics; you will have lines of hours abOrtu, Occafu defcriptas Other than that you will defcribe the operation of fic. In a semicircle QAS, the reflexive intrument from the hour iz. on both sides count the female bow daily, auto, from tables lib. food tis, or even analemmas recorded: For the end of the numeration, Occafum five to the right, will give the hour Z4. from Ortu of the sun, to the north of the east the same number of hours from Occafu It will be presented on Sunday. What was done by the previous weight that which we attribute to Occafuus Solis, you transfer into the equator is the circumference of the hourly benefit of the circle in the equator of the semicircle Q AS, having received the shift the same hour a. note tifque fic hours from Ortu, Occafu in equiva- tore of the semicircle, be the moving table ad let us transfer the clay, we shall find favor or pounds per tropic, punda ea- a round of hours, during which, and two tropical they are cendi: for by these pundas, pundas common hours marked on the equator rum, if the fire is brought, you will have the same thing rubbish Not the feces of the same hours give for other parallels you will find on the wall, be the work is done, and their hours are equalized first rio semicircle QAS benefit of the bows you have set the noons: but the fates rit, the punch of the hours T, and 2S, or to inquire in the wildest way: for when in tro pico ss, some hours punda not ha- he is robbed; two pundas will be connected fpondentia in parallel Y, five That it should be a few hours' punda, not that they should be in parallel Y, or ftiganda will be punda in parallel or tsz Finally, the Z4 line. the barn will give a line horizontal Ergo Italian hours, Baby- lonycas, which was prophesied. Problem X uneven, planetary, in the hour to outline the preceding log. Tiredo in the reflective side him, whom the femme had from a nallemmate noftro circle MNAB feor- let down the end, whose usarcus ANB, the bow of God an urn, but DNE will refer to nodurnum, and each will be divided inn. equal parts With this fado, the round circle was divided into two femisicles along the line RX, femiscule- queRNX, so you will fit the semicircle QAS reflective intrument, such as the center O, the center of the semicircle, and the line MN, the meridian line tAriis Anacamptiu Theoria dianre intrumenti exade refpon deat With all these, you will be finished by dmove ho a rare mobile, the fiery Zodiac to the hours in the semicircular RNX, semicircular You have registered the applied QAS: Sc thread per ra ftrabit punda in clay through which the red lines will give hours of iri- equal To use the father as an example. Corollary. To be able to know from these hours time and hours in Holy Scripture ra paffimufurpatas As you wish to know, which for the fir is laboring nonjuxtaS Math. z. chap. with which Christ the Lord nofter exfpiraf- It is said: "It will be reburied at the third hour. the afternoon When, in fact, an hour ago in let the equinox coincide with the hours of the mind bus aftronomicis: Chriftus Dominus au-f Evan- tem nofter becomes dead a little poft equino- a long time; it is clear that about the afternoon of the third mantav. for exfpirafle Again it is asked, what happens to it at the third hour, when the Holy Ghost on Pentecost Luc. c. z. defeendifle This will be explained in one way droning near the cold morning con- tigiffe: for with the advent of the Spirit of Sandi
Circafolftium aeftivum happened, where ha the most unequal races: they are, it will be clear divide by the parallel method of Gemini you want it a little late morning con- tigile, saying to Peter: For not as you think tis, these are drunk when the hour of the day is three: that from the third hour of the morning when it is time to drink, and it becomes unfit to be eaten. But about at this hour and in the following hours. Love it here his son was entrusted with this work. No Pro- Ytilitxs hu right to incri- psychosis Artis magna Book Problem XI. Signs of the Zodiac [above the horizon write the theme on the clock. Iverfas are handed down by divers, as CIavius Schonero, Maurolyco, and other lines children of the Zodiac the methods of inscribing the horizon with clocks, methods: the truth is so obscure, difficult les, as exercitatifllmos even from any of them easy to learn from practice ant. We do not have any of those things, which they belong to the doctrine of the first movers, in to be inscribed in the clocks of the Catoptricians let us be seen to be omifile; the labor of Tyrone and with the difficulty, the easy, bre we found another method: fam this list of lines, with the help of no other instruments, and all foreign things are done, and abfque We are able to outline almost any business. However, let us proceed further: It was first necessary to explain what properly gnificentiftx lines, each of which is useful let them have time in the clocks: for fic it will be done so that they understand the previous practice to be more prompt and skillful let's go They are therefore offensive Tabida L iifpofiiioms Signum, l Prometheus Part IV Zodiac at this point nothing else, nifilinex re- Ctx, which are common to the plane of the clock; eclipticx fedtiones; or a line that varies relate the ecliptic to the plane of the clock in sedation, according to various fits, and appetite He has the wings on the horizon, while I paint the beginnings they emerge from the horizon; which pro- feCfd have a greater ufum, iiluitrio- the matter to all near the two lines: from these nor at every moment of the whole heaven we know what happened; for the reflected ray ca tooth in some line of pawns teeth, a kind of cousin of that time the far horizon emerges, and hence which he kills, when he is blinded, then to kill a son-in-law: that same son-in-law by finishing then the heaven is divided, and so much so, and so opposed, that it lands at an angle occupy, we know infallibly. For the falling reflection of the ray of light bigratia rr impunCto A, end of any morain teiligam, n rise, feufupra horizon to merge, and at the same moment of time mum dot +-decende; in the middle li xiftere tx, in the corner of the earth conftituifl; and thus of foreigners: to use by means of opposition You can easily detect ce tables. Another reflection of the horizon. Offenses. the importance
Tahdall. the difpoJitioms of the Signs of the Anfiralia refpelhl the horizon Afceadcnrk. Defence. In the middle of heaven. at the corner of the earth.
Knowing therefore the four heavens in this manner cardinals, the rest of the trees of the Zodiac which shore they have in the midst of heaven it will not be difficult to know the parties; at- so that the places of the stars were known in the Zodiac, together with their declination, or in breadth, when fixed in this or they are exiled from that side, even if they are compa- you will be able to know them. true today Having explained it twice, let us now see what is the reason lest they should be destroyed by another rellexor blemate So I will go in with fire, that which ha- it is a bad thing turn off the flame QAS to raise relieved and strengthened rather a clock, or the wall, in which you give the lines to be written trust, you will find ma punda pawns fcendentium, feu emer the foolishness of the nations zontem, A of course it goes VettpaJs, a fubfid tabu of the Hiccappophytes that by which the mo I give Table The sun is shining in Y, on the horizon Roman
AM A Mi A M A M P M P M P M H MH MH M H M HM HM HM
A M. The same as Ante Meridiem.
P M. The same as Poft Meridiem. Run first in the first table, which: ra, the sun is confounded at the beginning of he gives the Roman horizon in vain: inve nies in the first table, that is to be done at a minute Count these hours with the minutes in the Eastern quadrant of the reflection circuliQASabhorai2. beginning, 5rper end of counting; just above the plane toris semicircular QAS to each wall a wire is stretched out, and a pound is placed on that wire he ran, it will be a pun, because the ray really bending over the horizon with the wood the nation, the Sun in V. True, as a line of two pounds you want to lead a lady, why is it like a taboo? la fecunda, at which hour the Sun is at a distant cousin rose from the far horizon tur: you will find, for example, the hour min. It happened before noon. Ask therefore I am dying at a quarter to this hour of the eastern skin, and applied to it neam mobile clock, fire radiofos Zodia co, and then by line (in which then The sun is said to dwell) on either side of the wall thread, you will have a fertile pound; that be first joined by a red line you will have a line of affluent pawn open rum year Once again, become a trusted line to inscribe the children of the children, with the help of the fic rarely First search in the first table, which hour of the Sun at the beginning of the 5th century, n fu emerge through the horizon, and you will find it to be done hours and minutes before midnight day So look for the found hours semicircle QAS in the Oricntalf quadrant and by the end of the counting from the center, as The fuprafad is extenfo to the wall on each side a thread, known as a pound in water; for this it will be a pound, in which m figno fupra hori touching the sun, the reflection of the Sun in the radius Y will be cut Again S-aJce'" why in the fruitful table, at what hour c emer- the horizon is broken, the sun begins at obtaining you will find, for example, ho ras, min. afternoon; which; promote Artismagnae Liber Vll. Prometheus Tarsus 1V promoted to the end of the countdown moving along the line, the radius of the fire is qo, from the cent you will stretch out each wire to the wall; pun whereas, into which the thread will run (which necefalario in the tropics (qo falls) will give weight loss; and this through before two pounds found in the equinoctial line the line being drawn, it will give a line to the rising pawn n, to which you will write a charadere, as in fig ra fol. it appears: you will not proceed with feces in all other cases. First indeed, the lines of the pegs touching which are numbered from qo to each, or from T ad offque, as in the first table, fecun it seems that the fertile lines of the pawns of teeth from each to qo, or from each to Y, as it appears in the third, fourth table. Table In the beginning, the sun is expiring AMA M H MiHM
A M. The same as Ante Meridiem. Table IV. In the beginning: fTm
H M, H M! H M PM. The same as the South Pole. But the lines V, Se di, which from the tables dif- you will be able to have a ficuity, ficinfcribs. Which for the son of Y, and the Sun, are in contact with each other In the beginning, it is the south, as ex a fertile table appears: it is perfect the common then of the plane of the clock both, ecliptics, tranfire through that pun- while, in which the meridian line of the tropics io does, for in this way the line normally leads He will give the son-in-law to the one who has given him: not otherwise tell me where I am tropic diaii is drawn parallel, the angle afendetas will give, as in the figure on fol. it is clear I will tell you more about the inference the houses of the clefts of the Italian hours, Babylonian, Jewish, tumufra the horizon of the signs of the Zodiac the intrument of the Anacamptic deferences he trusted to be accomplished, a little in each one that given a polished plane; let him go to Gnomon cam noftram Catoptricus, where it is more complete the intrusion of all that are here trusted He will not find out. Problem XI L Ouo infwumento mefoptico everything, lucu [que diffla rmra facility, &induflriain- They will be written in each, and whose however (on the wall
Olt Mefopticum ABCD, with a transparent veil covered, at what hour the vertical log will be drawn inverted: fi trust the clock; cujufmo- di here the pundats refer to the lines; log GE is fitted so that it completes the angle of GFE 'tms ana- obtain So if the clock in any field bet to delineate the Anacamptic wall Yclis; arus, iKfir- at first a magnetic fituan-mefoptic intrument while it is, in such a way that you will make ABCD in the plane the vertical line corresponds to the primary axis; then of the rule fixed in the center F fic motionless in- The tool will be applied to the hots line Then, applying the eye to G, see which the rule will make parts of the unprofitable wall; through for the red line will give hours. anacamptica The rule was then promoted for the hour line: B. pundatam, see also perioptramG, in which parts of the wall it corresponds to the opposite; for through these lin Duda will give the hour Qusfitam: by this art all confequenceshorasinfcribes. Which perado, a piece of fifpeculi in the pound G agglutinates parallel to the horizon, a bit of the sun's rays reflected in the hours of the wall qusfitas But if I fit the watch of the Italians when, or did the Babylonian veil infer beasts; you will determine the rule of the tongue las hourly lines applied on the wall by hole G infpedas, horas qusfitas Hac induftria arch of pawns, house crele- ftes, affendentiafigna, hours of the planets; by word, all that I have delivered in the gifts a mouse; bring down the lines on the screen you can decrypt it vertically. If the line determine the dioptre G on the wall it would be more difficult, applied to G light, there was a rule of shadow, as on the opposite wall makes it easier and more certain to determine the mold it will take off Horograpbiu lAnacamptica.
it will take off Verum hazcfufius in Ma horographic gia. This intru- mdnftru- the chin is not tanned, the chin he will write directly; in the same way here the clock is vertical and straight On the beach, the demons were written down on the screen ftrat: for the rule of false hours lines applied, eye in G applied, as it were, a shadow fua lines in any op- Determine the pofltis fuperficies bit So note the GH axis the traitor of the world in the oppoflto Deter the center of the clock on the wall to threaten Do these things They are more complicated than I explained loved ones deserve it; whence by the way tan then both the divine intervention I wanted to be told the smoke. CHAPTER III. Of the portable clocks of the macamptic in y frames y a market concay delineating. Problem Anacamptic mobile clock with cAeftian circles infer draw a concave hemicycle. I. hemicycles vessel from any place foliadamateria, utfe- he quits, whose hour zon is divided into qua- the quadrants NG, GD, DV, NN, starting the counting y, ip degrees from pundisN, velD, ver- y-jfj lus punda G, V II. Divide the south GAV, in two quarters, five in degrees, or twice ini and counting the number add G, or V, and it will be VA, degrees Nadir, five poles ho of the horizon III. Numbers from weight G, ver- the fusApole of the horizon in which bearing GA the height of the pole, as here in Rome degree and it shall be three times less the pole of the world, from which the axis is to be drawn. Here is an optical projection does not appear. Ooo around The Great Book of Art fromethei fars iv IV. They spread their legs crawling with pink use yourself thus: with one foot on the pole di already found, on the other by pun&aNKD, describing the semicircular NKD, which quino&ialis in the hemicycle. V. From this weight, in which the equinoxes the two sides make the meridian line AV, count the deviations of the pegs on both sides verfus V, A, brought down, by findings of the tip of the tilt from the punch, the fire pole the arcs of the world circle on the horizon those running and he would have a defcnptum I was a fertile zodiac parallel, who you will put the clay on the clay. With reality you will proceed in the first moving lines, as in it will be done in the fifth book. Inference of the ijlronomic hours. p Rimo divides the equatorial NKD into I ix. equal parts After this, in- with a varied circle at intervals NK, from the nearest point in the water de-
It was struck between the tropical arcs, which an hour he will report the first afternoon. Then of the pofito with one foot of the circini in point warm, on the other between the tropics, deferibear with the eighth hour: fic carried off the bow bus hours from the eastern side, if you want one circini unmoved foot in equinox points in the eastern quadrant, on the other thrice the tropics, the arc of the hours was borne of the afternoon; I will have to trust raveras, aflronomic schedule. Or lumttha- do otherwise. A rule applicable from perga- gr so you will apply those marked in the equation: fi igi there near the fic of the tropic bow you will lead, the same will come forth as they went before you operation. for a long time Hours from Ortu Occafu. T The three tropics are divided into degrees, five hours a day mul, and the longest day of all petitioners for example, here in the tropics of Rome 'jo, it is divided into hours and minutes. Tropicus vero 2o, in hours, mi she nodded, beginning to count the hours The Italians from the west horizon from an hour ago in retrograde order through the daily arc; but of the Babylonians from the eastern horizon, in a straight line through the daily arc. Of the planetary hours, (the ancient ipe inference T3Rimo each tropic is divided into equal parts, the beginning of the hours tis slaying in order; so that the first hour after the rising of the Sun becomes the first planetarium, the southern one is bounded, and the western one finally triapuntahours inequinotial, two the tropics spread evenly from the horizon tia, if you draw a bow, you will have a gain. A A Let them look at the arum inference TJOfito cirini with one foot in point A Na- A dir, which refers to the foot of the foot; high ro by means of quinos, denos, or something else we are in quadrant VA, let the circles be drawn; for these will refer to the circle horizontal los Azimuth by this art you will bear Next to the fixed point in A horizon a folding rule made of parchment, and the steps of the horizon are made of clay He was a great influence, or quinos, denos, or quindenos gra dus, he was capable of being applied, de were struck by the bow, these will be the Azimuths which thread The demonstration is clear from those which fu- pralib. on the descent of the Almucantara we said ex ra- The inference of the coelefts of the Dorns. OI house cleftes near the method, and he went to the house of R, egiomontani If you are confident in inferring, apply the rule from folded parchment in common at the point of intersection of the meridian and the hour zontis, fuper fingula of two hours fpacia in skin tial, between the tropics lines, and I would have obtained it. If Campa nor method, from the same point, I imagine los Apply the primary vertical steps ta, will give the same. Therefore, in this hemicycle when ready, fasten the thread in the center A, high dine of the semidiameter of the greatest circle, in cu right fummity particle maximum fpe to whom you attach so as to obtain fi- and parallel to the vertical. On which foot rato, inflrumentum fufra plane hori zontale revolves so long, until the ray refl xus touched the place of the Sun between the parallels, and it will be fitted for hours, and the rest demonftran gift For when it was so reflected by the fpeculi ray, than the shadow of the top of the flyli, perfect and the cone with the equality of the movement of light and the space of the shadows hours a day they carried It is done in the same way the bent beam in the Borea re- fpiciente, that the shadow in the hemisphere Auftrum refpiciente, oftenfurum. That everything is fufier from the Theory of this Ap ready to open In the hours, then, there is no difference the bearing met, the snow, that which I sought by the clock they look back, in the reflection let them reflect on Borea, the vepertines, and so that here the hours are shown in the shape of the deferipts. Sunday is the twelfth. Second, pin it! All this artifice could be done through Aflrolabiograpbia Anae a m p'ica
son mo- by horizontal circumferences, &Almu- a table of songs. tare nothing else, than the circle expo- lohorizontis, feu pundto vertex by Ungu
Azimuth but of the greatest circle fint'in didto ver tices pundto concurring, and in follow liberating parts of the honzont: If from the tabu The Almucantaro-azymuthic issue is on the horizon at the given hours the calculations of Azyniuth; in and with the same azimuth the pole is turned the horizon, the center of the fire, the height Solis: I mean, that will give the end of the calculation at the end of the hour But all this fufius in Proteus fciatheric probi, tra ctata fille Problem In a hollow cylinder the hours together with the circles cadeftilus to delineate the anacampticas. T Amine copper, or paper in a cylitiv the drum must first be turned into a plane be projected according to the precepts gymnasium traditions, in which the favor is taboo larum Almucahtafd-azymuthicarum ho ras, and the rest of the lines are in- fcribes, with which it is prefaced there: only this fervent difference, that in the cylinder the plain of the clock, which there Au- He looks back at Florum, here he looks back at Borea. This when finished, be erected from the center of the barrel of the barrel Itylus, which in the place of the apices is a little fpeculi let the fruit be contained in a vertical plane primary investment; so as to be punished Xion's punishment of the pinnacle of Itylus was perfectly appropriate at: will show the ray from the deep chastisement hours on the opposite side of the cylinder and the profits Note also, when and when he obtains a small piece of flesh on the plane vertical, not to be shown on the dial snow i z hours, with the reflection of the Sun to some pla but with equidifting then the prodigy vanishes, and at last the hour of the afternoon cannot be shown. If, however, the glass is abused and on the other side, it is made of copper, or of steel gnomon apex triquelatiqfculus in cullet eflct polished; a ray would show from Collocrtti dorfo fpeculi in. Boreali facie Auftrum fteculi refpicing the remaining hours at Ortum, Oc- coffee, beyond the line of the hour belt, or turned falling primary heat. It is also clear to have this clock for the same reason as vertical Auftralead Boreale, Se. dhaec everything is clear from the previous ones. Look where which, which in Proteus fciatheric about the we surrendered to God Qoo Pro- ll6 zArtis Magna Book Vll. Prometheus 'Pan iv. Problem X V In the cone, fire whirlwind, hours, and the rest to charge the first mobile device. UOc is no different from the conical clock from that which lib. fol. mouse That is why the fihorofcopium together with hours, and numbers of circles, and If you cut the fig tree in front of you, it will be that Anacampticum, in which the ray from the fpeculus reflected in a vertical plane, om nia, which shadow, like a ray of a finger will break Cones figure ABC; blown away in the plane figure ABCDEF. it matters Problem Cubo hours, other anacampticfo inferi- here hours and a circle with numbers figure in the cube fol. i, propofito in- j J5 "E c will be missed; will show the reflected ray in di&O face the same hours as the ray monftraretin side ABHS Problem XVII. In the Pyramid the same anacampticJs here You will carry out everything here in a clever way. which one fol. dire&a peregifti, you will have p. ropofi m. fcripfer, you will have an anacampic cube, in which, as before, the fruit in the vertical in the plane of the circle, placed in the place of the apex of the will show all those things that in the fciatheric pitch shadow teaches. Thus fpeculum in G affi xum, ita, ur side cube DCIK B orea refpi- hundred, in which and the hours are outlined, equi- DClKintrinfecum side of the cube Let Borea look back ABHS is the opposite side of the cube Let him look back. the inner side of the Oc coffee But AHID Ortus let him reflect A mirror attached to the G plane Boreo, Auftrind equal di- j Problem Another method of mechanical drawing horology Anacamptica m data wall [up er fide per in- Jirumentum Almucantaro-azimuthicum outline-e. It is fixed on a small horizontal plane the center of the intrument is the center of reality bending Horography sion, so that the azimuth is meridia not to be refounded. This pcracio, fi punjfta ho rare in the tropic trust, take the tabu
lam Almucantaro-azymuthicam, see the height of the Sun, Soie I put Azymtttho congested; I will stretch the thread through the find a step shall be made in the wall, which shall be Traxisin- the twelfth. Then promote femicircu- fire pum mobile MST fupra Azimuthum in the first line, or the eleventh, which ta- Anacamptica It will make you happy with your height Nem Solis competent in the same barn in the quadrant of the semicircle. So politely Azimuth in the hour zontal plane; a high degree of copper wire polished by the sun, and the wall ex- tenfum, he will give a pundtum of the first barn, or un the tenth I don't have stools for other hours the process of ingesting rum. By this art nes arcus fignorum, Almucantaras, Azy- mufcha, four times the number of hours, afeen- the toothpicks of the Zodiac, each according to particular tables, of this on foot, in the interior of the houses You will bear the burden. But if the wall is farther away whatever way the matter may be made with thread; complete the whole business will be done very easily with that dioptric chin, which is a little antefol. we taught to be done. For this is so difficult natur, utinflrumentum ray from the center fe let the micirculi duftto lie in the diredfum. This for in the mouth, the thread between the ray, &dio- if you place a pipe, the light will show tranfgrefla tube, in the wall point lioja: benefits Another method. OI first by intru. ment Almucantaro- y2lius O Azymuthic in the opposite wall bduZih' laAzymutha, &Almucantaras delineave- wucantaro-ris, they will give the common slaughters of Al- tymuthic. mucantararum, Azymuthorumfingulis hours in the tables refponding pundtain found on the wall, that puncture, pef which lines or of hours, or of any other circle they must be led. Of which nothing it can be given on foot. Problem Given any concave body however irregular, in it an acamptic ajlro- to outline the lips with the help of a mflrument offer A given body is concave intd- the bull of the intrument so firmly, that in place cannot be moved. Then the prototype it will also be accommodated in a fuo place, as already it is a long time. This is supposed to be done-fpe- in the vertical plane of any af- in the fumpto place, v. g. at the tip of the gnomon, on the 5th day of the shining Sun, the operation next to the prototypon let it be filled with profundity on account of which folio didfum, preferably and rife with your will. But we are presumptuous ad' delineate the aftrolabium anacampicum while, prototypon aftrolabium when; for in this near the shade in a certain li the first part of them, the reflected ray I have hollowed out the same fpiece of lines He will bear it, as it has been demonstrated elsewhere. If, therefore, the shadow proceeds through the lines, five aftronomic hours: bear ray the reflection of the same hours: be per hours Baby lonians, or Italians: he will bear the same the reflection of light in a vase; fi by hyperbole gnorum: and the ray of light will bear the same law Etficde catteris. Ooo corel Great Art Book VI1 Prometheus Part IV (oroUanum.
From this it is clear that no body is so irre- to be given to eat, in which I do not teach thodo didoe line: incribes pollinate. Because yet it is difficult to be unconcave of this kind to draw lines with fuperficies, debentival la- so that the ground is properly joined together, so as to pass through it the obfervation of the findings of diflblvi again pof- lint and the last line: to be written; lined, to be glued together again, fi wooden fue rit, or to be ironed, to be metallic: of which I took you first to warn the slayer, not to be difficult do not meprsevidifle the difficulty in working you would think In another way we have taught me optically, and you will not know what it is: for tate' tate problem you will properly spend, nothing so much A Take the intrumentum mefopticum-fol. The secret here is to be thought of as his hope It was not possible to bring down the written record and to work on it. ANACAMPTIC, ART TA% QVItA. ON REFLECTION linear SIVE ON THE HOROSCOPES OR AC A MP YOU TICK To which the whole of the first movable line is reflected ipfahce given every plane, I projected a new and invigorating plan are cut off ISA reflection from planes
fpeculis emanating from the born ra, propriety, now little going higher which things, and usefully in cylindrical, conical around the corner let the reflection shine upon the wonderful accomplishments, fum- we have taken to be carried away by the stream; but the principles, how enormous, incredible, they emanate rude paradoxes, Le- dorcuriofus cognifcat, and cognitof in it was a little pofl to convert the manifest he loves But don't let the matter be filled with words let us see, to teach us the practice of ipfa let us brace ourselves: that will be done, when first there is something fcituneceflariaprafuppfueritnus First, therefore, we need to put down the money cylindracea, such as St conic, has this property to feel, as light linearly, or in cir butts, hyperbolas, parabolas, ellipses, or let them reflect in the red lines, to use, in z. side by side the right of librifuse has been declared. When therefore the cylinder will reduce the horizon you, such a reflected light will mafteda line, which Then the shadow of the gnomon returned to the water level parallel to the tori, that is to say a circle: be true the cylinder is thus placed in a horizontal plane, as the length of the cylinder to the plane of that axis The mujdii, in which the sun dwells a long time, becomes the norm a lawsuit; the reflected light in the plane of the skull line He will bear the burden. Supposed to be fertile, however the smell of the cylinder in reflecting that the whole cylinder polle: so the cylinder fedusunulos and whosoever has the faculty of it, as a whole bet From this, indeed, the source of all things the accounts of fptuerographic miracles emanate, as it may be said. So let it be Protophys I Whenever the light of the Sun rolls into the ring dracece feilion, to the horizon s er him, and Azymuth, in which the sun dwells tur, appropriate, Jive that the same, fuh the same the plane of Azimut fell upon the exiled being. , reflected luxJemper writes a straight line. CIr annulus cylindracea fedionis A, Sol but in the azimuth LVH, whose radius in let them fall into the catoptric ring of the hairpin oppofitutri, for example in pundayy Mr co, all the reflected rays into one line XTK. S Y, to When for in It is demonstrated by the previous ones, the angles the incidence of water in the angles of reflection, cathetum in the same anacamptica fuperfb cieefle: reverberentVn, Vo, Vq, Vp, per im- poflibilein other than the XY line; it will be, therefore, that the incident line bending together with the catheter in the same tube fiction, and not in the same fiction. But this implies a contradiction; therefore into the same the line xy is reflected; for the angles are nearum, fic incidents in fpeculum water the angles of the reflected lines, tus reflection together with two lines fenv it will be in the same guise; for example the angle VH, the incidence, is the water angle lo reflexo HY cathetusnH, with the same it is in the same fuperficia; but the rest of the corner Vd, VpL, VqM, the incidence of water in which which are the angles of reflection ES, LyR, MpT, their ILM catheter, in the same plane they are exifling in the countryside; therefore necefalario in pun- give TRS Yjlinea XY, refledent in the Anacamptic ring the line noqp, infinite punda fint, in which reflection takes place, as om also in the same line, in which pun- 'danoqp, we stumbled upon the refledere a little reverberate light from nulloaiy- muthici fi- loreflexa li not u m re then I threw title 8o Artis magna Liber V (Prometheus Hars V. they are reverred, for the excrement is the absurdity of God's law, That was often. would be born Whenever, therefore, the light of So-1 Protaph II. (Juatidocmique the light of the Sun reflected 'in the ancient cylindrical catoptric light the aquifer, and the azimuth of the sun rlt of he fell down, the ray refle xus, conumradiofum, the circle of which he writes down the dress. Let AB be the catoptric ring, at the horizon temquidiftant The sun C, the radius of which is inci give in fpeculum AB I say let the light fall tem radiofo fuo cono circle DGEF, ba- I will register the end of the cone. For when near the preceding angle of incidence becomes the water the issue of the angle of reflection; in this cul, as is clear from the figure, the incidence of the lines let it be in the fpeculi cyhndracei the feeding of the hori parallel to the zonti
a circular figure parallel to the horizon in falling, reflected in the circular fuperficia (they weep, with so many futility of reflection. Reflected light circulosin annual plan l'o aqut- blowing up throws out to be given Fufiushancrem demonftratamreperiesinpar. of this book. how many punches of reflection do I believe this fpeculi, to use in par. of this book ftenfum efl; , conftituantur Ca theta also has nothing to do with reflection how flat azimuth rum, five rays from the center of reflection whether he cancels the horizon produced from outside, of any kind in the former figure is HILM, and here Cathetus AB of the fuperficial reflection CBE, between the incident line CB, &BE reflected middle. So it will be done circular reflection: they would be reflected for into another circle, or line am than DGFE, will be corners in incident reflection such as, not sharks, which is absurd. When, therefore, such as fint, circle the light will be efficient. the same they will know that the Sun is round in the rainbow the eye of the poor man. sometimes that therefore, which was often Pro- Protaph III Every time the light of the Sun is reflected in the lum catoptric conicafeblionis in the same with (it intersects the plane of the equator; it will cause co' rns radiofus in the anacamptic plane cequidijlan- circle you; horizontal horizontal hyperlo- ele, parabolas, ellipses, for the aspect of the Sun vata, or depreffi Let the ring C be in the same plane as the equator Exifing the plane, five, which is the same as the axis world EF, normally affixed. Plane but what piam ABannulo will fall and the solar rays into a catoptric ring let them fall: I say the ray of light with a cone in the pla no AB intersecting the circle, in the plane but HI hyperbolas, parabolas, or ellipses pfes, for the beach of the Sun I will register. That yero in the first plane was describing the circles, id fic Since the ring is the same the shore to the plane of the fibi which he had in the form of proceeding for tafis; the same defcribct here as there is a ray reflection but there it will be demonstrated, a circle the light will be projected; therefore here in the same will project a flat circle. If the cone a ray of a horizontal plane, which line HI reports, he will be killed, they will carry the lines the reflection of the necefiario in the same plane what fattio HI accomplishes in the cone; but ipfajuxta Conica noftra principles, with la the cone FE becomes parallel to the plane HI in this by the example of the prefect, it is not made coil I will therefore prepare on a horizontal plane He will throw it out. Whenever, therefore, That was offensive. Corollary I He was carried away by a catoptric ring made, which axis of the world, five, that the same, he had become a horary circle; in on the horizontal plane, by the reflection of the circle li the hour of the occino&ial will be projected. The reason depends on the first protafi; has for here the same made to the plane, as he has there; therefore the same effect is expressed bit If, however, the radiating cone is thus from the plane This is done as a flat plane at the end fe&ion beard, him transfeat; necefla rioluminofaelhpfis nafcetur: fi planum Hibafim the shiny cone, however fe- caret (as long as the side of the cone does not become pa rallelum HI necefarius ex conicis prin cipiis nafcetur in the deep plane hyperbalu- minofa: which when in the proceeding de- monflrata fint; He was thought to be a futility fum, repeat it here so often. Qorotorium II. From here it appears, to these three protaphs of the future the way to the most secret of any anacampi with the craft of artifice, hither and thither; by which however, with support, let us hold back, as The reader has to find some occafion let's leave But now you have promised, pfam practice is ordered. Ppp Mirnmbo- voUbimn. i -Artis magna Liber VI1, Prometheus Pm V. Problem You will heat the hours and the circles in the interiors a linear reflection of the house in some parts to indicate p Rimo, in the place ABCD East, or O through the hole in the wall, or the dungeon, which! desire closed, the Ocatoptric ring to the shore the axis of the world is so fixed as a ring the equator in the same plane. Secondly, the more important precepts, in inside the walls, live regular, fi-
ve irregular, from punished O reflection an- there is no parallel of the Sun with the hourly lines let them be thrown; which is easy to use the Anacamptic mind, and the fidious of the optician. Let them be but the parallels of the Sun were observed, that is, not com- let them bear and the leaves are potted in the margin rietum, correcting each one they are painted in parallel: the linse, however, is hourly exprefias are sung. You will see when you have done this with no end of astonishment, a little fua light reflect the entire bright line the future, that is to say, as the Sun in the op- the shadow would carry him to the plane of the EGH, fi Itylus would be as great as it is diftantiafpe- back from the wall But whose son is parallel bring light, the line reflected in the steps of the Lamb rum, which he makes in the margins of D, B, he was shocked. But if the hours are repaid to you if you would, the smallest part of the top of the ring is small if it is not brought, a ring of velipfechalybeus with it in that place a little on a plain fu- the finish is polished; and this pla whether the light shines in the middle line, which from Ortu to Occafum, the femper turns with Showing the sun within the hour lines, figuti line of light, level, and decline the motionless demon of the Sun all that day he That seems to be a paradox I am afraid that I am a frequent experimenter of this matter He will give more information about it. See how about this more about the mechanism in the Magic of Light Shadows of Probi we deliver Problem In the plane parallel to the aquinoHial, the linear refle xion hours, and to demonstrate the parallels of the Sun. A ring is attached to the mundane axis, faruplp so that it is in the same with ajquinodial pia-M v VYUtS he did not go. In the second place m plane each ring jeftMs parallel, according to the distance of the ring from on the same plane, a clock will be drawn nodal, together with the parallels of the Sun, which in They will refer to circles on this plane: I say a ring a cone of radiation will be projected on that plane the same circles as the shadow of the phthalic water the issue of the axis between the weight of reflection and the plane would bring If the ring is so difpo- a nose, or an annulus in any meridian plane it becomes, nodding, one of the hourly things to bear; it will cast the reflected light of the glass of the Sun contrasted in a plane ifto a bright line, that is, the same time line as He would cast a shadow. Pro- tArmiUtCd- toptriae fa bricks A(lr biography (Problem Horas, circulos ceeleSles, fimul in pla whether in the watch of the five-pointed Armilla Gatoptrica throw. In the two previous problems we ask, by what means the fruitful di- verfum fitum fpeculi diverfe reprofenten- there are projections; but now I will show mouse, for what reason those cylinders ceas should be so adjusted that the lines of the hours let them cast the circles Let two catoptric rings be made then the cylinder of faith, which is so fibi mu they are tied to yours, so that they will wear two coats, or even one the horizon, the other the vertex refer to the primary, or meridian, which modify AB, CD; let it be. connection of the circles, as can be done be careful to avoid anything in the com slaying punds ret I left You will bring this Syftema Catoptricus with the support of that art, and method, as it pleases you wish to turn it in every direction, as it appears in the form which we desire Catoptric Bracelet we will call; with help, hours, and circles together draw a projection there Therefore, the bracelet at the end of the fulcrum, thus the axis of the bottom it is mundane, as AB equinoctial circle the other CD south what is it? and will throw ring AB circles; al CD three times, so around led as Azymuth Solis correfpondeat, li He will cast out a curse; where is the intersection of circles with lines there is an hour; determined point Yes therefore, with blind lines drawn on the plane, no you will have a mere hour, you will have an hour logium, which at the end of any material line will demonstrate the hours by the projection of light. Problem Azymutha, klmucantaras on the plane to draw a horizontal linear reflection. T) The armlet is loaded together with the fulcrum on the plane of the horizon to the sky qualityNV, in which the blind lines defcri-
ptafint Azymutha, and Almucantara he or dine, which we taught in the Sciatheric part fol. When this is done, the Armlet will be fixed together with the support I was on the plane Anacamptica horizontal in which to the first given phylum the quantity of support NV Azymutha, Al-Reteaftr. in the mucantaroe order, and in the manner in which We taught the said folio of the Sciatherics, to defcri- re they are beaten; but with blind lines, so that there is no force deatur, nifi numbers of Azimuthorum in ul the circumference of the circle from the south beginning with the inscriptions: Almucantararum but the numbers are written in the meridian line. If therefore you trust to see, which in Almu- cantara, or the Azimuth of the Sun at that time rice dies; the engine of the Sun is explained, Ar and let it be drawn in such a way that the circle AB is equal to the horizon; a small circle ris CD, in the same Azimuth as the Sun ftat: circular reflection in the meridian fe the number of Almucantara, which he called the sun holds the pore; but a bright line in cir the conference will show Azimuth So the matter in which the Sun dwells at that time: pun- I will give the intersection of bright lines, a pound in the garden You see therefore, what an admirable artifice for any purpose I gave two lines of linear reflection they want to be shown in circles. Of the afironomic hours in this anacam optical network inference. more hours, fire circles for each one you trust to bring down the Anacamptic network, do so: In the horizontal plane of the fubfid Azymuthic-almucantara bulls hours, or circles by that profuse reason, which f6" We have taught in the previous ones, you will bear. When I do this, let's find out the current hour rarely trusted You will fasten the bracelet in such a way that circle CD meridianum pprfede, AB but he refers to the horizon: T but the pound common intersection of the meridian, Sc the south of the horizon reflected treacherously should be flattened a bit, or fruited the light of a small plane, parallel to the vertical plane attach the light, and it will become a bright ray, which bright in a circle from Ortu to Occafum by proceeding, it will show the hourly lines, and any other groups in the same network carried away Problem V. In the cavernous fuperficiehus of Almucantaras, Azimutha, hereafter then other lines any species inferred to be linear to demonstrate by reflection Clt in the first place a hollow cylinder, which the greater the capacity, the more per- the bolder of the bright lines projected by the cylinder referet: whose interior surfaces are tonavorct on a first, according to the precepts in the proceedings let it be cast down as delivered: Azymutha together with Crfrto Ppp from Almu- lAhiitd force in reflection of the dead eArlis Great Book II. Prometheus Tarsus V You are almucantari, dicfta also on a level basis They were infatuated with Cyindraceo, even so, as li spin hidden fint, numbers only com- let them appear, indeed in the hour of the Azimuths zontis labro, veroinli of Almucantara no noon When this is done, make a bracelet the catoptric noftra so conca the horizon vo, five cylinders are adjusted to the axis, as cen trum bracelets perfedte in the center of the horizon refpondeat: it will show bright rays the projection of the lines I would sing, Azymuth; so, however, that to be known as Azimuth circle bracelets CD circumdu&us Azy- Let the sun be silent. But the hours in concave, with the help of tables inferred mon The reflected ray will be reflected in T, a small plane in the meridian, five Azimuth affi x. Therefore, it was prophesied. (orotlarmm I. TTInc is clear and easy to read the reason why I will give it away, in all other cases no matter what level of inference the same. Given Therefore, in any concave body, while the equipment of the cleftian circles in with it, you will present a linear reflection. Corollary That whosoever hath a good fortune he perceived, that is, to innumerable other things in to come and make an open entrance. A lot this here of conoid bodies, and elsewhere Of all kinds are the miracles, the parables, hyperboleides, eclipfeides, and their ad a remarkable property of reflection in business to say pofTem. With the help of truth here I was led by the lentil, and then because of the innu the mere things which I hold in other matters, occupations; as well as to others also
I indulged in the leisure of the greater, the matter was so admirable rabbles, and inviolable to search for the occafion I would provide But those who he will trust, he will see the magic of Lucis, And the shadows, where the nucleus of speculations here he will find propofites. Note about di51 a QB must be boiled first: In the cylinder J ceis using hyperbole a little ellipfesaftare; to which r em ediab you will be, fi ex co you will make a catoptric ring. Hardly so but in practice the difference is of no importance is detected Secondly, carefully ob- actinobolifmus anacampti should be boiled cus; for not from the center of the year tur, fed as many centers as the purnfta of reflection they are in the circle of the year; hence in li hours I will proceed with the care of removing the smoke while it is; They refer to the apex of the phthyl, not the cen trum annuii, fed flngula puncfta in the environment annual Thirdly, a watch of this kind more happily, and more safely used by it is done mechanically, rather than geometrically. When I bowed, I could scarcely have done so exactly. fint, that their fuperficies perfe&e rotun give, and it becomes equal on every side; than the government you will take away the infection, be it through obervation, as I said, velinftrutnentonoftroTiretieo, not you will catch the Goth. Crete, become a business it is scarcely possible to say how much such a mechanism in the minds of fpe dtaior's astonishment fufeitet. Fourth, There must also be room for this business hibendo proper, obfucurus, lame: fic for the rays of light from the machinery of the better fpcctants they will show their eyes. And these things about Anacamptic art they can I have no doubt that his characters are eloquent Hifce based on our foundations, innume I was excited at the time of the discovery of new things whether he will give birth to a fable. Of this kind Aftrolabium anacampticum, not so pri I was the most magnificent fan in the Palace Eminentifimus Cardi took care to outline the hilt of the sword; that we really need to use op I have no genius He takes my mother by surprise; so that I am not concerned about him deservedly that which of my old Avenio not to be called sketchy. Here the unmoving fuos run through the curfus And the Moon returns to the interstellar wheel. Marveling at this art of Solinfpeculus, dArtis Authorem thinks ejje fovem. ffuppier Author adefty quis nifi Jupiter other So he contracted a huge fate behind the house? It is true, since the mentioned Car-1 Prince, cultivated in the class of letters, in il- They make the smallest fan of the dinals, and they do not play in any way. here ejufdemar drop Aftrolahiogrdpbia nova Anacamptica let Epigta mata, as if by the light of the art of noftra l, support the greater grace of splendor it is coronidemdubjungerevifum, -that we may even add here. , Arti noftrae Anacamptica; , Purpurea fuf- Epigrammata in Aftrolabium Anacampticus enter The Palace of the Eminent Cardinal, drawn by the Sword P. Magnano Ord. Little S, Francifci de Paula Relig. EXdpiens tAuftrum is fed by a little gap, And of these he admits a small feneflra day. From the sky the sun, rushing down, whistles on the threshold, o To the places and does not carry the inner commandment. If, however, at the end of the glass Which rays he receives, he casts into the Orbicular glass also vibrates the rays in the world, zA flashes in teBo. ficut on the axis, the ball. A frequent line divides the vault into various hours. Whom the globe irradiates, he moderates the day. The iron gnomon is here, and the shadow is driven from the bear: The world has golden times.
AEmula nature these hands paint the heavens He struggled; He could not paint the sun. (however, from the beginning he would weep with his ears; en Sol Then he paints the way with his light. III. The sun complains about Horofcopo's mirror. With those eyes, the glass, the fragile work of the unfaithful glass, Who is Hercules? Whom did the lad push? As my face, and my rays, though flashing with fire, To return, and to teach me, And to close the corner of the roof of the fubfornice tent? Mirror of the Sun AVree Sol, you go your way, who lights the lights, I also saw him carried away by the adamantejupremi Will the wise rule over this treasured one? Hence, Erinceps and the Senate both making a decision May the bright light of Europe guide you to hell:
Hence the hand, and the Great Wise One compels me to wear clothes QA dronomi, to burn with so many hopes for Eatron; And nosergo xfewrpar eflvirire two. P p p ATHA- JS6 Athanasius Kircher From SOC. JESUS PRESBYTER ART M A G N M LIGHT AND SHADOW LIEET OCTAFVS ANACLASTIC ART, SIVE RECONSTRUCTED ASTRONOMY Qua zJjlronomice (jnomonkce arcana by lines, circulofcjue umbratiles Anaclajlica that is to be refracted in which mfcmque mte- riornm yajorum juperficies projeBos, they are taught curiofe. T E F JTI Anaclajlica carries the Nacamptic art, both optics not dissimilar to the mother daughter: that immensity of the heavens, the volumes of innumerable houses, the receptacles of the earth ua transjlata light, artificer Prometheus to conclude the attempt to function fuopreclare here and there This is true of this kind Envious of the mysterious veil of light, I do not give the same in propatulofiedjul aquisfluh le, the artifice of the conjurer is almost ready: she is in the shade, in the light; Ira, in the luminous field of the waters of the heat, breathes miracles. Therefore, in do not reprehend the character of the luster we are especially since it is scarcely possible that anyone has handed down anything on this subject, or knows the method he noticed I know that some of them have traditionally made rules by making an ancient clock; but I saw that he who reached that universal method of the entire first mobile doctrine by Anaclajlic art a threat therefore we shall not undeservedly call this part Anaclaflic Aftronomy. In this Traclatus from Geometry, let us at times turn away from an insufficient consideration; bring my mind will also be a little freer, not everywhere adapted to letters and figures, or to demonstrations with the bonds of adftrittusjed conjectures dijfloutior, he will fell some philosophic liberty; it is from but let us proceed as far as possible in Jerv's method before T A PIgI M U PHYSIOLOGICAL PROLUSION Nature, effusiveness, ignorance, usefulness, diversity of means, and other things to Anaclafticum, CHAPTER I On Etymology, and the nature of refraction. RS Anaclaftica, nothing else here ife is defined, how certain, the monftrative faculty with which to refra ctions with the help of the whole first mob lis do&rina within the water in each bufeunque and other strange things, and we teach you to reprxfent the paradoxes of the unconscious. But it is said by the word which pretends to break; it is also said tMnvmti because of the means, which passes, diver- fit ralafioV hyfio logica. faith, when they are on account of it, they seek faith cundum ettiw4ifeua fpcculis faCfcam re bending And although both are something fra&ion admits, (for both radii mfftrmu are really broken, one's hand, another's trefinion, from the middle denfions fuperficie, and partef fra- And truly, with a wider definition, that which It is said to mourn, because when one cries out should be rendered in two contiguous lines let it depart plainly, like rays; Since, however, otherwise a fpecuiis, the rays are otherwise affected by water (al for those parts are repulsed thrice by the small from whence they come: in a different way from the fuperficia the waters in depth, and opposite sides, than un- they had arrived, they were inclined) and diverged denominations must be strong. purchase the catoptric ray is not so subtle, which is first reflected (for it is not so his faith in his eyes is aptly infused, the ray in the middle of the denfior that which is returned from faith, and it is fua nature, yet it seems to have been made from a stick with water it is clear that this is not incongruous. anaciafticen, that is the refraction, that nacampticen, that is what I called reflexive mouse objcBuma- Anaclaftice had therefore trusted for form- nacUftias, if I were to object to the ray in the middle of the denfiori refracted to the perpendicular: what things when in a strange way all things go hither and thither He almost numbs the genius of the Philosophers: de so impressive, and prodigious twice it is a little philophopharivifum. It should be noted, therefore, that the ray fua natura nothing presftare, fed one om
of nature, and property: ve but the bodies of the same body were objected He makes a straight or oblique cafu, like a ray a ray of strength, strength, and power let him go before, and hence the light-hearted heart pore size varies in infinite ways, as well the difference of the multiple refractive index. For we are strong and robust mnium is, which normally, five w V object was: less strong, who that is to the oblique, and the angle of the ina what kind of object will be drawn, that o&omwni, bring him back, and truly denomf we are Hence it is that he can be assessed the eye becomes stronger, which is perpendicular to the force I am born This one is so bright and clean Dierfi caufam diferfam they ftated. Who- cauferefia- c{am [n reasons you see, scales: some m accumulation of rays: others hu- they are the right effedus caufas of comment, which see Kepler, Scheiner, etc. that: we say the cup of this cooling let the radiance of the ray shine. When you want the radii of the perpendicular angles (which when I objected to the body's fuperficia un say he does) gathered together co- give strength and increase: it is done as in ra by the obliqueness of the angles, by their inequality it is broken, broken, broken, etc is weakened And so the perpendicular ray by all means to any extent tate difference, in the end I was not offended at all da penetrates, tametfiindenfiore more coro- takes precedence, and as if in a small and let it be concluded, in rarer cases, more freely it wanders, expands, and spreads; when I see then it happens, the middle of the den lium of diffusion, and of transfer to a considerable extent. to refit more than rare, and less rv. m fenfu, although it is not perceived as fenfu. It also follows that all natural movements who are made by o? stronger fint it shines, as from thrusts, thrusts, with the percuflionis, it is easy to see. Or let nature contribute to the unity of the parts, or feparation both are effected by motion while the most concise; in such a way that the more alive they are, the more united in- they are understood, and the reins are fint of all lines between the same punda brevislima Motion therefore, he who unites things, so that the movement of weights ad earth, steel to magnet, in line re let it be done, and let it not be done: for at other times not all the parts of the movement tend to the same end, fed somewhere in the middle of the journey, which was to deny to the other, would deviate from this union attachment Since then the union of the parties ma Xime is stuck in the approach to the perpendicular larem, certainly finguke things from innate ipfis to they hit here with an appetite for treachery. Hence the rays of the Sun are obliquely caught, while medium obstinate and varied the bus is jammed, they cannot penetrate that they should also have an eumfite, as an addition so that they may penetrate, half way ten they give, that is, from the line, the return due ver- the shaft was perpendicular; to be more united in this way they were acting, they declined by a certain inefficiency of nature nent: and thus, that a man with a middle teeth he had departed safely, and descended to the steeple swim to recover, nature to all com I hang out with a roar. Other arguments from See below for the heorematical part the river CHAPTER Artis Magm Book VIII. The Anaclaftic Art of Tarsus I CHAPTER I Of the strength of the mediums capable of refraction. years ago every body is transparent whether it is a denfius air: yes gases, water, wine, oil, distilled water glasses also every ge have the capacity to spin really poflunt, fpecies of breaking. And about water Indeed, it will be infrafufetradatur with wine and oil. glass Glass also, as different shapes are pre- quditasin ditas} they rebut it with different reasonings. nraaoni Qmnja vjtra p[ana were drinking this, as I objected they change their shape all the more, as much as ipfa they are thinner; so much less, as much as ipfa they are more subtle. Itafolia Selenitis nothing pro- the shape of the object is changed. However, this wonderful flat glass: that with the same Fuperficies applied to the eye contract the thing viam, fi ejufdem fuperfieiei oppofitus; be moved more widely, the same thing let us see what I will contradict before: We shall give an account of this matter elsewhere. Convex glasses in the shape of the plants
fphaene adjusted obliquely with the eye to the living thing, to use the transparent ray of the Sun against hunt: And the glasses are thus excavated, as a fuper the concave face becomes parallel to the convex, five concave-convex homocentric much more effectively than the fphae- ricavitrea, because refradioinhujufmodidu fold Hence the rays in the other convex they converge so much, in the hollows so wide they turn Convex therefore to the optical axis of the oblivion by which they bring forth a fruitful and liberating matter v. , a glass inclined before the pouring of the fat; But the contrary of fruition in desire happens: the contrary wine let them be hollow, because in the present there is no un how the intermining takes place, as the rays of the femper more and more afraid of those who retreated. Pla- non-convex, plane-concave infpe- give the shape they leave, the size they vary, for when the eye is moved by the smaller eff they are flat-convex, like the same oar this greater plane-concave than the same removed, until it touches the earth in them, for then the opposite happens, as well nofterScheinerus, inoculo Still the same a plane-convex object with a slanting radius they divide the life into a fertile diameter, or I will destroy thee, tant, they let it down at other times, for different things, of course vitrifuperficie, and ever fatumpoft to the eyes they contract a living thing. Plano-con hollow obliquely infpeda contradiction, five[ refraction in a great variety of demons which, indeed, is the refreshment of all men He opens the rum caufas. For this refra- dion in different mediums a small amount of damage leads to a large amount the size, the curve returns, the curves return, round squares, flat leaves, and leaves plainisfamiliascernuntur; convex hollows there; and break them whole and continuous gi, and they seem to be torn apart, but not in the nature of things just what? they are, dissimulating, fed them also, by imagining things that are not: greater things hidden under these, than one can imagine for few miracles are done, those of glass Koptuar, viffiaeoeitur, wb3AbhiJ'V, quXCOrpo- rum glasses to parabola, hyperbola, and ellipses the form of polished lest they should be represented; they know Who for this hidden skill is almost he has certainly passed through the greatest magic; nature He knows the part of the issue that is exhaufifle. But these things everything is fufier in the magic noftra Catoptrica. In addition, living things are transferred from the true world cis in a strange manner dextrorfum, finiftrorfum From here by hu Jufmodi vitra Sol confpedus in ellipfin will be configured; And one sun is multiple, I wish parellii, it will be seen. Whence reasons pa of the relior, parafelin or from the pro- to hunt a certain truth: de in which we deliver more in the fruitful. The glass therefore, when most irregular because of their various forms they suffer from cold for there are also various kinds of things that are refracted It is not necessary to show fpecies. Aqueous indeed the bodies, and the air when thin from vapor, hu-J sweet and fine, and partly contiguous, and they fuse with the transparent, and make a fume they are more easily affected by the regular, therefore the light they bloom more orderly than they break; as therefore they do not seem at all prodigious the apparitions of the stars, which were to be seen, be the sky would explode with Crypthallin balls. Hence against Empedocles, Ariftoteles, Ana- xagoram, is concluded demonstratively, to then that fpatiurn, which the wanderings occupy fydera, be pure ether, from the air to be rich in non-futility; for be, di- that body is fumigated from the air, and has as many globes as there are planets, that is to say it is, there are foiled bodies to the inftar of the glass, feu Cryptally; the number of monsters they will give birth to is infinite Irefradion's stooping, which you boast exhibit What to eat this rxiufio P hfio logic. Bp they will present; fixed laces, and other fydera] who of the day, and knots j ufta fpacia ob by so many means widely fufa, so many tricks to be lost elsewhere than at the pole of the horizon alive, they will never be seen in a distant place; which veroremotifimafuert, proxima, qua they will appear contiguous. Some things too in one degree or another by the nature of frauds they will be conjoined; and then, when the pole of the horizon was taken
they wear, which will be seen elsewhere, torn apart, and the fates will appear far away. Since therefore, by these experiments, the worlds of celeftia The folly should not be fubfifterepoteft for any reason that the fire fphaera with the experience of colds he trusts in laughter; for the living rays from I spread it in a rare medium, huge in order to make changes in life the teeth are oftenfum. But when there is nothing rum changes hither and thither in the world it is marked by obfervation, it is clear that propofi- then Comets, too, are nothing but the air, the five-year-old body, the Sun's ra illumined by the gods, from the ipfa foliar ray rum into Cryptaliina fphaera illapforum fall into a cone like a tail quan- bearing the dam, it can be demonstrated. Ari- floats with incredible fluency the world of these will be scattered and torn miraculous portents are not asked of the physic he would see you; for optical speculations fe turned, of which crowns, brass fydera; cold But the suns are twins reflection; But the rainbow is partly from the refra dione, partly from the reflection of the radio rum vi- He demonstrated to be weak: and not to them satisfied, he also added reasons, which would strike the Crown about the greatest tan then fy dera to procreate, parelia fu pra, or in fra Solem never, fed only to the side I was born, which, however, was false in ParelisRo- in He appeared in the living room: Irides not the complete form of the circle, fed not from Indeed, the northern region to the south ever to be fed. Or not with the help of refraction many of these times have been offered are they those which at first seemed paradoxical? It is worn out by the Itineraries of the Dutch Ardon, who, among other things, is worthy of mention They report this: When they stuck to the gla cie node oppreffi findent, anno on the 3rd of November they will see the sun for the last time, but from the height of the pole, which they thought Efle grad. they would already have a certain ex Aflrnomic principles will not return The sun before the of February of the year fa- while, however, as on the of January, days before the legitimate time of the rising sun They should see the furthest edge in the ipfo mere pound of the day At this time he can they noted a few hours on Thursday and Monday the fertile degree of the conjunction of Taurus, not the continuous darkness was neglected by the ipfis he would fear: but as all doubt on the of January the whole Sun would be removed they saw that it was Ergo January cen there was a rise. To his surprise many are caught in this rare phasno- they returned the men. we say a cup, as some thought, not in the errors of the sailors perpetuated the breadth of the place the ram of those who offered, to be cast down. For this is what the sailors love, so that they do not enter which degree is nothing certain of the height of the pole they are able to have it, they are almost universal cam of this starch is overthrown; that of fe they would not suffer it to be said to Neptune if they were of such a mind there Therefore, the only one in that watery medium some of the whole degrees are prodigious In the coolness of the sun, this rare phenomenon is infused the caufa is to be fattened. What should I do to others? places as humid as you want, and steamy by no means such a refrading the norm contigiffe should be admired: let him do it, ae that Boreal matter so efficaciously the thing, the water flower, how much it was a pole rit nearer: don't cry out surprised, be in no in the third part of the leaf they are protected From here the infulas in the remotest of the sea, which appears empty by the vapors of the sea bunt, in the base of the lofty loftiness of the onlookers their eyes fluttered with amazement, as if they were elsewhere we will have And from here on, in a clear way, the final bar of refradians Ciim for the world is so poor, that So a dispute between tropical storms on the day rum and llodium vicissitudes to others that it may effect other climates: Providanamra by equating light with darkness, do not know cam fefemundo pnebuifle dici poflet, An you have more light than you of Nebra; I would say that it is more light than that good is opposed to evil, that is to say hold of arms, he admits to giving; to the world or tem hxc to be reconciled with equity, refra Dion as the only damage afliimpfit, in which the corners of the world he would run away For this Sunday And the moon: the ancients are made
they are condemned, I am beneficent and apedu parts Exiles covered with horror of darkness rant, rorifqueafpergine fertilize this fa- while it is, as a pole of fubjed people ptres, to whom at other times they were condemned to the end of the cold they were, darkness: forever twilight lum, and I will not snow the four-meftre knot they were rare, as a fic for those who labored in the plagues ture: it should be prudently supported. Since MirMUsU- cool down almost a full degree it sometimes reaches two levels: it happens in such jirtismagnce Book VI11 Prometheus Part I ia such a cafu the Sun broke the horizon in fphxra parallel to the evafus of five degrees the bus is faster, because it has two steps in the spring let the ticale be repounded five grad. min. do in the Ecliptic. The opposite fkmfpffiera reda: With enimob exceffivos the heats need not so much light to be fostered, fa it is cut, so that the refraction obtains a smaller force spins because of the speed of the Sun's motion. Since the ecliptic is slightly inclined to the horizon and the daily movement of the Sun time then, by which he anticipates the true rising of the Sun, Noa also greatly exceeds the time ve the rising of the Sun. In the fphsera, however, parallel, with the proper movement of the Sun, with the help of refraction more than the refraction of the horizon tem whistles, it happens, as the closer the movement by day it is slower, and it lasts all the more the sun's refracted liorizont leg and that of an admirable nature help the laboring world while Create a munificent at last in this day thank the Lord's generosity with grateful hearts let's know For those vapors of The effectiveness of the sun's rays was dulled they resound: that is the shape given to them by the Creator he will meet, while the Sun, whom he restrains they strive, that it should not fall upon all peoples they hold longer, light and dark they shorten, they prolong the light, the knot they make the day longer for everyone those who have a longer light, hold it shorter rae, as long as it is: that I may work for the works of light if the source of light is the Sun to be carried out, to prevent, a great deal of incitement, and let's draw a tool. But now it's more fun forfan, as it was a match, having advanced, I already ipfam the nature of refraction, even to demonstrate let us explore the norms of DEFINITIONS. the figure of the cpi& on this page is found to be located on the first page of the debuijfeu I. TTIfio anaclaftica, five refrada, is the vile composed into the divergent me a long time II. The refractive medium is in which the ray falling does not rede into it fcopum, fed fraud reverberates to another and so much more is broken, as much it was the middle of the den; so much less the more rare the medium. III. A little reframing is a pound of fu- petficiei diaphanous body, as B. IV. A perpendicular line is called playfully perpendicular; it is that that which normally affects the horizon it will refer to the horizon's frequency, I won't V. The line of refraction is that which: apun- of refraction at the living center ex it is intended to whom ufmodieftBG Cathetus incidence: it is called line a the weight of the matter of the power of the heart will be broken pore, in which the living thing is, and from which it is made I would normally use FX. VII. The angle of incidence is the smaller angle comprehended by the incident ray, and perpendicular, of whatever kind the snake is game GBO: it is also called an extension line fioniforms VIII. anaclaftic angle, five refracted, is the smaller angle subtended by ra the god of refraction, and of the perpendicular EBO, whatever is the angle FBE. The angle of refraction is called which contains the line of refraction when line of incidence across the diaphatic body whether, from whose fuperficia we are made cold in continuous protuda, five angle re It is a continuing incident of fraud radio, radio refraction as FBM, or GBH X. The surface of refraction is called that fu- you will finish, in which the line is contained of the incident, St refraction. Pronounced. I. becomes fertile when it cools down the lines. H. Nature does nothing foolishly. II. Nature acts along the shortest lines, IV. The operations are naturally stronger towards the vertical. for you1 FOR T HEORU MENA ON THE NATURE OF REFRACTION AND REFRACTED RAYS.
Theorem I Whenever a ray falls obliquely on me for a long time, or with a rareness as before heterogeneous, the ray at low incidence will not be continuous in the direction Thus, fed to the perpendicular is refracted: feverb directly will occur, there will be no refraction. I was often able to make a decrease. Ex the loss of the thing by weeping. An experiment. The CDE vessel shall be emptied, and the vessel shall be fattened for the rufous reason, which before; you shall see refract the shadow that fell before in E I am already empty, and I will direct the car to M. Therefore ray GB, in the heterogeneous CBD, not in M direfle, fed in F refractur verfus nor- IT A certain vessel of water full of CBDE, and it becomes The sun in the place of G, whose ray becomes GB; but it should fall into humor CD yf) CED in point B, gno monis EB, perpendicular of the horizon: I mean the radius GB, per B api cem of the gnomon, not in the open (quemad (if the vessel lacked water, it would happen) iri propagatum, fed ray in punfto B fra the back of the head will be turned perpendicularly the thing, the fire gnomon EB, and the shadow con- bad EB But if the sun's ray falls into wet CBD, normally, to use from O in B, there will be no refraction, fed shadow in fe ipfafuraetur, &res, as it will be seen in natural breath: the physical reasons of which we will fly Theorem f. A refracted shadow, Jtve image of a thing yife, ad Vifum reached the line of Elis. D The preceding figure is repeated; and fall GB ray into wet CBD, refra- let the stream go in F: I mean the end of the shadow of F I would live in the same place, not in a circle in the broad lines, as many by believed the purse, fed through the lines fcilicetper the lines FB, BG, incurfuram in vifum G. I teach things by experience. experiment Ulat fyphonfubtilis, Streflus, who in the genius will be adapted to the limb of the to the Azimuth quadrant CGO, whom we will teach in the fertile re, that about B to inflate the rule of confidence mo He loves the truth. Then the tube here together with the Sun should be directed at the quadrant, so that refla beam received by the entire tube spread the length of the refla, and see Twice, with no end of wonder, the light which juxt that length of tube had to be projected in M, it is seen to be refracted from it in F When neither can the light yield, as it is closed fa, he will proceed by the path of the Neceflario Reflo, finish by reflaming the line If nor would he come through other channels to pun- the river F: let it therefore come through GB in M. But this is contrary to the experience of the poor: he came go in Fper reflam. What a wonderful animal experiment, with no end of pleasure I soon contemplated thee, I began to think I think that some Philo- z fopho- Artismagna Book Art AnaclafticaTarsI, to mock the folly of the foolish, who think through which the tunnels to run into secret circles in life. Certainly, no one should be confused with nature's brevity he is ignorant of the rede philophants, as she the ambiguities of this fupervacaneum becomes hostile. And from this experience it is concluded that the form fe is whistling with infantile movement, not fecal matter and light: there is no need to break this line; for when this fraud occurs in the infan for you, it is not, in which the propagation of it tem seek pus: for neither according to Philopho- phum, the indivisible added to the indivisible, id makes it bigger. Theorem Angles that are made to a point r efr from Silon from thin lines, partially refracted ifl continuous for doublets, femper between they are equal. TN predominating figure continues the line re- fradaBF from B in H pundus, linea ve ro incident GB is continued from B to M: I say that the angle GBH is equal to the angle Efe FBM, angle HBO, angle refracted EBF For there are angles from the law of faith to the top, therefore equal between fe. For A ray of the sun, when it is obliquely met with moisture the colliffus is broken perpendicularly: Sc fi from whence it was repulsed is protracted, whence it was shriveled it is, it will be reflowed, into the same faith from perpen by withdrawing The same thing happened in reality You will live outside the water, covered with water with the eye; so the eye was suffocated with moisture in F, the ray is brought through B, not in H, fed in Gperget, refracted in B and there I will live the matter will include So the Sun's ray GB con-
flying with the horizon at an angle of gra two, he will not strike a bow two within the water, fed in a pound of bow F grad. incur; the Sun here inconftitu- tus, will not cast a ray in H; fed in G pounds. An experiment. It is clear that the image of the object is refracted by vijmago. I was meeting at a place not Yidctlftu p. o I teach this from the experience of the people. It is assumed a coin at the bottom of the preceding pile; then I withdrew from him at such a distance, until I died let the image hide your life completely: do you take care to fill the vessel with water, and soon whether hidden before, with the help of refraction You will find a lot. See what this is with the help of a wonderful experiment in the fruitful ex we go Corollary. T The magine of the matter is refracted in the curfu ca- iwgorei theti, and the line of refraction is extended, to be given SitresvifainF, which perFB lata, at- which in B is refracted in G and runs into a lively one: hence from line GB, in direct produda in M, in Catheto FX, will show the real thing in M rr. I bent over the intersection of the catheter, and the lines re- I will put an end to fraud. See the demo even in Experiment Theorem IV. %es fub aquis anaclafltce vifa, how far from the farther it is to the eye, the more distant it seems. So it went alive, the punda fub was alive in the waters jequidiftantia BCDE, fuperficies aqux FK, perpendicular to the line AB; I mean so much a living thing higher and more elevated, quan to be more distant from life. Or the same thing it is, that the cooling would be greater, when to be farther from the line AB: that is, refra- dio pundiE, will be greater than D, D greater than C. Therefore the form E is broken, apundo I, &Da pundoT, C apundo G, and let the perpendiculars be extended a pun 7heoria %efraffiiomm. Refrigerants such as LG, MT, NI, from A line to cut AG, AT, AI: where are the catheters extended CH, DR, IS along the lines incident to AG, AT, AI, to catheters CH, DR, ES, ineifque CG, DT, EI in O, P, Qpu-nda, since of the triangle AGL, the external angle AGF, ma jor is the angle of ATF, and here is the greater angle AIF, as being foreign to him. Again, since LGT, MTI, NIK are back, and sharks, really the left angle AIN is the greater angle ATM, angle ATM, greater AGL. Sub from these the waters of the corner OGL PTM, QIN, from the lower corners con- trapofites, and the corners OGA will be left, the smaller the angle ATP, and here the smaller AIQ When, then, the sharks fint the corners to the top, will be the angle HGC, the water line ABO, Sc DTR, water ATP; EIS, sharks AlQSed how much closer are these articles to be assessed culari AB, they are so much smaller; how much the more remote from the same, the more the same things But the older they are, the more in the catheter refradionformsrefrads fublimieros, ut in which SRH is clear. Whenever therefore the matter is fub with the waters, What was the to be shown Corollary From this it is clear why the Star, the Sun, and the Moon and the remaining fydera, fubinde fuper ho- the horizon, before they arose ciantur: who horizon femper denfi aeris for fragrant vapors and mists it sinks to the bottom, whence the hidden face of the Sun is raised by a refracted ray. Corollary From this it is also clear why a group of fub in the waters disappearing vertically it appears to be large, large, and concave; because the part which extends farther from the eye, fubli- it seems larger, and the center is in a different place; force they must be obliquely hemidiametered, and for that reason elders Theorem V From the reflection of the waters all the greater things they seem Theon in Commentaries on Almage- He rejects the cause of this matter principle: Which is the base of the greater angles they seem; my They compare their daughters-in-law. I am wrong: indeed, neither hsc immediate caufa of this give any reason it must be said: why do we show the truer I called it a mouse that is made. An experiment. Therefore, the group in the shallow water of the plain fum while the IL, whose extremity L, in diameter to come to the surface of the water, and from P, the eye is refracted in A, extended AP, in direct, Cathetus ex L, and coincides with the line AP, in direct stretch in the pound N, and look at the pound L it will be in N: equal ratio I, refracted line in let the weight B reach A, the eye, hence in a straight stretch it coincides with the catheter IO, in the pound M: Let them copulate
daNMlinea, and we would have a semidiameter greater in diameter LI: therefore when refracted The god around him was uniformed, Majorehi also described the environment of Fuper MN, how far back LI; between two diftantesNL, MI, diameter LI, rede lies: MN, veroob refraction obliquely, Let therefore the diameter IL, parallel NO, &exM, MO is drawn, and the angle MON is reduced it will be, because the angle is in a semicircle, tia ergo ON, OM, sharks are ipfi MN, ON sharks is ipfi LI Therefore, power MN will increase the power of the ON pef by IPFA MO Therefore MN ipfa LI is greater it is therefore, the circle is larger than the circle. That it was to be demonstrated. Theorem VI. The bottom of the water is perpendicular to d(len by refraction they seem shorter. TN has been proven to be the bottom line the impofity to be lifted up by a refracted ray, and so much indeed, the more obliquely they appear. Another property emanates from this, namely the bottom of the thing is normally pushed through the frame they seem to be shorter than the day: of which indeed We open the case with this demonstration. Let the water be fu- you will finish C, in which ray Refrained CF be left in B where broken form compared is launched into water to be moved be given
water staff DB, anger as a middle partDT the second part is below the water fi- is given According to the laws of refraction, therefore, demondratas form vifa inB refradta, ele vata will be seen in A: therefore it will be seen as large below the water the middle part of the staff, as much as line AT But this efl is a much smaller TD. They are therefore seen to be resfub by the waters of a short time the thing, which continued the parts outside the water. Corollary I ITTIhcpatet, bottom water J that infpedtum much more diftantim ef fe by the water of the water, than in truth with the eyes he gathers What a multicausal illusion He reports to Vitellius the hunger of death. It is clear also, things move more slowly from refraction in water, than in free air. Since perpendicular BT, in which form say, it appears shorter than it really is, tlrdZffub Ciue g-AT torraa vila It is clear that radi dying, usfradtus so much time in his approach how much time he spends, mr, h, nnimiwmctex. , fiper entire BT, in the vafeaquis He would proceed with confidence in the void. For this reason the caufam adra to the horizon more slowly than they seem to be moving towards the south. From two buses the more you move, the slower it will be seen to move there, who through a shorter distance, who is faster it will be seen to be moved further. Corollary I f. TJTncaparet, too, why the staff as an intruder, he is seen as broken. Let it be What is it? DEC, oculusinA, bacu game BEF intruded into the water, Cathetus FC Since therefore E ex awesome staff fradfum, juxta le ges of refraction should appear in the ass part of the staff below the water line T1, EV, the other side the cistern will refer to the water part of the BE line; it will be seen ftusvidea- the entire staff of BEV, who with no continuous tur indiredfum, necedario in pundto refra dtion E, will be seen as a fraud. And from this it also depends on the principle why the ships from transparent through the middle of the vapor you live for let them be seen more abundantly: why should I inherit a common thing? to be seen to be moved by refraction; Why do you wander, and the solar rays around the border? Let the lights and shadows tremble. Theorem! VunSlum form refraffia, punSlum refrtl- Bion, the living center, and the cathetus h point zArtis Magna Liber Vili, Art Anaclaica Tarsi, there rejraBionis ereBa, necejfamfmtin the same rejraBionJuperficia, Jive on that plane Bion C It fuperficies aqure DE, center vifus A, point of refraction F, form of refraction dfa G, the perpendicular CF, the catheter GX. I mean all these punches in the same fuperfi- cie necefiario to trust. For when through i. the definition of this line, the line of incidence, refradlion finfin the same fuperficia; hundred trum verus vifus A, F pundtum refradtion nis, G center form: of life, fint extrema of the learned lines: therefore they are in the same the fuperficia; fed cathetus too, as pau lo pod will be demonstrated, ed in the same fuper fiction; therefore all the pundtas are recenfied in the same fraud: for every refraction or is made to the perpendicular CF, or from
ipfa, &femper in the same fuperficia, in which was it possible to break the incident form? . Since for every refraction happens to every one difference of appetite; by what reason is it made to one, the same thing happens to the other side. Deter therefore the threat of refraction to a certain diff the rent of the power is made only by means of life, because the center of force in any craft it was a fudge, it is only perceived to be done in that matter betrayal Corollary. Olliges from here, when didta pundta fuper- let them establish the fiction of refraction, which failing any of these, he was not ed fuperfi cies of refraction, since all pundta this is only in a single fuperficia firnili, as they concurred, it could be done, and not in the majority: whence they are finished of one refraction the only fuperficies ed. It is clear, then, which was proposed. Theorem VIII. All the fuperficies of refraBion are killed ereBaefi. For, as in the proceeding demon- dratumed, break in all fuperficia dtion Theory of RetraEliomm. Dion's Neceflarius fint points form? refrad? of refraction, alive together with the GX catheter; In the Neceflarium, that piece of furniture will be perpendicular ris, as little as possible by the experiment of the quarter We will find the azimuthic anaclaftic. An experiment. The Azimuthal quadrant should be located together with alhidada fua GB ea unfutria fuper vessel ABD, so that about the center B freely horizon- He desires to be moved in such a way; and OBE will report perpendicular, GB live, feu line clear, F form refracted, CBD fuper- I will make the waters I've been doing this for so long dadamunacumaftrolabio verfus Azymu- Then the sun rose, until the light came he received it linearly, and threw it into F. Since then all radiation becomes fertile red lines, juxra z. Pronounced hu right, the GBF will be in the same room a figure of one with the perpendicular OB, cathe to XF indeed the experience is astonishing OGCB is in the same plane as BCO The experimen- drant's voice. Whereas the radiation through al- Let Sp$etficks proceed, improbable elt; as in other vefratlionis fupcrficie conftitui poflit, prasterqnam in that from which it is propagated. Now the light is set a quarter of an hour in every other hour zontis pundu, light transfmifla femper He will hold the preferred part in the fuperficia EED quadrant below the water. It is assumed then in the Zenith pound alhidada, vifual the ray brought through it will pass through the centre of the world; but this ray is the same eftcumfemidia- world meter perpendicular to the surface in the vafe, atreceftin fuperficie refraction Therefore, the refraction of those falsehoods nis is normal to the horizon. It is clear, therefore, that the propofitum I finished tight. L p Olliges from these, the plane of refraction with any verfum protenfum, necef- neceflario it contains fraud in faith; perpendicular but when the line of address is the same: er go to the center of the world; therefore and the plane in which the catheter, with the lines both cutting and reframing. II. It follows that the plane of refraction does not to fall into the cone of flowers, which is around he will bring the gnomon, the top: for he He coexists with the weight of the eye, by which I live it is done: therefore let the plane of refraction be in it the pound falls, it also falls in the cone of the flower the top III. It follows that the plane of refraction is not prevent the head from falling into the cutting beam of Dion, cathetum, five vertical li deny First I will prove the plane of refraction it falls into the center of the eye, a fire of light, while refracting: fed these are extremira- tes lines to be cut: etgo in the whole li deny for all this lies on that plane in which extreme I will prove the second, because He falls into a heap of refraction, and the eyes, which they close the line of refraction. Thirdly, because it falls into the center of the earth, and into a pound of cattle: but these things in the spring tical, because from the center of the earth through the eye let the light extend into the sky, let it be vertical; a lawsuit; therefore, and the plane of refraction. IV. It follows, everything, and dust let the plane be a vertical plane. From whence these new fruits are derived Theorems Theorem X Once upon a time the sun in the middle of the rarer oblivion who will be seduced by the eye of God, in me the eye of the denfiori, the rays of the thread the thing will conceive again, fi and que in two days
border of bread C It ABC, the sun sending its rays to AD, BE, CE: from pundis ABC, in athmolphin- ramDEF, earth man center cam in the center common G, and these radii will be called lines to be cut, but punda DEF, into convexes vapor fuperficie recovered, punda fint re- of the traitors, from whom you will be drawn into the meeting The red lines DH, EH, FH are called radii tefradi: but from the G of vapors, and the earth i center emifla? read GD, GE, GF, ad re dig-- c; Artis magna Book VllL Ars AnacUfiica Tars I. puntaDEF fractions are drawn perpen diculars, to which, or from which the refraction takes place. I mean, from the eye in the athmofphazra conftituto input H, Sun ABC, don't say, fed refracted to be seen, greatermquefolito, tatum, because the light of the sun ABC, from rarer me dio in the fuperficie DEF medium vaporofi ca- densjuxtaprrecedentia, there from the perpendicular on the banks GD, GE, GF, breaking in H point meets the horizon of the steamer. This indeed it is done by refraction, as if the Sun had not yet risen, so men begin to appear with the eye in H conftitu- to: but this is not done by direct rays: ergorefra- you And let this propofition be converted into maehujus: for he was painted with a fat eye in the middle rarer, a lively ray in the middle falling down to the perpendicular, see although from B in Frefringitur: So fi oculusfub water conftituerinF, objetumvifi- vum out of the water, a living ray pointing will be refracted from the perpendicular to the point G. In the same way it is done in the soil: for while the eye nofter in the vast athmofphaera I lived in the middle of the radius, and in DEF fuperficially refracted, not in a direct way, fcdin point ABC, from the perpendiculars give five, therefore, the eye should be closed within water, and living form outside, five lirec in through the water, the eye outside; femper the same in the same way as the average angle of refraction in the morning they will From which it is clear, the eye within the athmofplue branch, and outside its center Refract the sun wherever it is visible then to be seen to be perpendicular, which thus I can prove it: no ray of light from anyone point athmofphserce brought to the eye, fi is produced in a straight line, crosses the center athmofphteraz, prteter nnicum vertical: therefore there is no one another is perpendicular: the rest therefore om lest they be turned aside, Theorem X Sol& fjdera fecundum om? ies parts in long and wide Ljue are variously refracted, ex Scheiner's obfervation. the middle of the ipfius fuprema parts rum, and the lowest, the black horizon, ele by mistake; but this follows from the fact that they are unequal to the perpendiculars they are broken, and this generates radiation unequal fu- by the influence of the atmosphere; what a fraud when from inferiors So the side part of the radius is oblique, from the let them hit us with the net; He does not care, the humbler The parts of the sun are further broken by the lower ones, grow deeper and grow stronger to be carried Almost everything that has been said up to this point is clear tur in the diagram above. In which ex Inscribed from the center is the smaller circle ABC, becomes the atmosphere; the greater ADE becomes heaven So a lawsuit; The vertical line AF, in which within the Atmo- fphaera conftitutusoculus G, afpiciat So lem, or DEin the vertex F; or HI on the horizon you or KL, in Nadir M; (at least now he will not touch the earth) he will see everywhere eye G Sun refracted, fed not everywhere contract For SolDE alive in ZenithF, on the contrary is drawn evenly along the refracted lines GN, GO, when incident ray fintDB, &EC, perpendiculars AP, and AQ, to which then the refracted rays should have approached you GN, GO; I live from the Sun it was necessary to break it down, and to appear smaller contracted, to a smaller NO diameter, how true it is. But hxc is vertical refraction and contraction due to radiofam DB, EC to be cut almost net, fenfuin flees, folly is apprehended, when it becomes too thin. I will solve this, if you want it on the horizon AI, re- AI, rebutted, contradicted unequally ap appears in HR, by reflected radiations GR, GS, GH, make from the incidents HT, VX, IY. And because the angle H YI is greater than
SXV, and here greater than RTH; therefore GY is more broken than GX, &plusG X, than GT; ergo protracted reda GX, ex tra vaporesin S, ibid fitaltior, in fua pro portion, which extended GR; &GH, al- cheaper than either GS or GR: because these things within Atmofphrera, because of the incident IY the more oblique, the more approach to the fua perpendicular to AY, than GS to the shaft Therefore the whole Sun appears smaller HRrefra- dus, which becomes 1H not refracted; &minorH Z half-diameter relrada lower, than fu- worse than the ZR, it is also refracted. What is the eye of the Sun? L, in Nadir M, it appears through refracted rays tions G in GinJ, extra loca ve ra fub in diameter by refraction ampliata: with. incidentae K, un and let them make equal inclinations, not it is necessary for the division of the sun to be made unifor me, and therefore the greater Sun, fedSphae to appear rich. Whence the reason and according to the laws of Refradius seems to be the same outside Nadir in the Iphasrius was inferior, and the finitors and the to be unequally enlarged, and Now the nadir is much higher than that longer, because of the cuts matter: from which dodrina, ipfa will also be seen experience And almost from the obfervation not even Scheiner. conjecture L'17X hifce conftat. The sun, with the eye out through the center of the motionless earth, around -Clum all bring me to throw the varieties, with which to the shape, as to the size. T beor ia efraclionum, Moffraepophitus; placed in the same which I will look at in natural size there the Anaclajtic liegu from the proceeding de- duShe adAflronomiam dioptica useful. I. open sky punda, pretet top, they are prone to colds, and in the end they see everything worse tur: whence again the whole of the sky, which appears he says, there is more than it appears; more because of exaltation tion: less because of the contradiction: than ai- The circles are made of faith. II. . There is no fydera outside of Zenith they are given in former places, where height gra while they have obtained There is also no fydera, duni they are a long way from Zenith to demonstrate the height of the horizon, they are from a par you below From which almost all phenomena they depend on the first mover. III. Who made the heights of the poles out of the stars zonti vidnis explores, manrfefto feeran- he exposes it to danger; the same danger expound, who diftan the vertical fteifar they offer IV. Civil days from sunrise to sunrise, or civil in quantity, they are smaller and larger: (ab-atone- by taking away, however, the Sun proper) and you are from middle node to middle node five daysAftronomic, femper poundaequal, let nothing interfere with the cooling here, but there at the beginning and at the end of the movement of the Sun to the horizon zontem confettituti some growth the day may bring. This is also clear a day also in the season of the equinox let the joy be known, in every place; that honfiri divine providence, by nature he prolongs V. Sydera was put out of the top of the pot they are never seen in other places, although that II. In the Zenith, the jotuudus, although smaller, in the fenfui not much is clear, ubizj. o. titu- VmeUtes Salt from reality fruition Nadir round, but juftomajor appears. III. Enter Zenith Lesser Horizon height rather than length; both of these he appears tired. IV. In Horizonte fenfibili vifusfola al lacks strength, natural length ap he faces V. Enter the Horizon Nadir, height. Dine appears more elongated than in length, both, however, in excess. The reason for this; that the vertical leaves are flat and flat dion, of any kind in this fit are two planes of length. The same thing will happen, even if it is the Sun then, the eye in the circle within the vapors fitipe- The riverbanks are contemplated all around; jjat movement in diameter not transmitted by the Sun they obtain more or less disintegration; con often never a true golden horizon They offer depth, extra weight vertices, though he flees from the idfenfum, especially when they have been vertiginous from a given weight moving All the fidera on the horizon fita, they are from the part of the thing below the same, and from the par- the terrei appear effectively on the phyfie horizon
the same one. VII. Diftantia fiderum fimul in the same vertical conftitutorum, although it appears, or ra is not, however, fed femper true minor and she was blown away. On the other hand, trust in this a steiUrna appearing on the horizon it is true, and subject to no error. Ratio con. 0rm' ftat exTheorem. For from the same pro. fa, he will see in himself what is outside the center of the At-ibatury Sun round at the point of the vertex, fraBknt Rrr and by marriage 4riis rnagm Book VI11. Art AmcUftica Parsl, but to a lesser one; round in the middle, to appear to the greater number. VIII. The sun, in the asquinodes, somewhat in to the north, or to the south is given From here, two sheets, one of which while one rises, the other sets, both the horizon happens, reipfa by no means diametrically they must be held against each other. X. Civil days from sunrise to sunrise, or from Occafu to Occafu, as it cools large or small, so they vary in size, whence this in the business of oblervation miniine to be trusted XI. The day from the middle node to the middle no they are scumbags: for dio only happens in the verticals, fe when it is high, but not fertile length, nothing could hinder them cool down And also about the other days bus, it must be said from noon to noon. XII. artificial days, fivc arc of the day, fcmper in the whole world are longer, no- thorns shorter. For when the Sun is refracted God let it be at right angles, the sun must be there yours rises in the morning; it fell XIII Horology all Solaria, as ex they are made up of heights, they are erroneous; those who direct horologies also err the fertile rising and setting of the Sun: so wonderful bili fane divine providence of God ho they have a blackberry; which indeed the greater, a smaller cooler for a larger one, or a smaller one by the departure of the Sun, the fishes also, prop national durations of time. (ReguU deVmbris Gnomoni. XIV. Three times the shadows con- to be trusted; or as they are in the horolabis of the mob livid, or immovable; fertile, as they are fub fphasra reda; thirdly, as fub fphasra be trusted obliquely. In mobile clocks, use cy lindris, rings, fimilibufque, from height to them the hour of the sun's confidant and the same place of the Sun, which the Sun does not reflect it would open, the shadow would show; otherwise however, he has things fixed in the horolabis of Zo I saw the deacon intrude, because of the slant cet the rising of the Sun, and the sunset. Third Science the therica fixed fub fphasra indeed reda, nothing suffer change; fub fpaera yet oblique fdU- which the uncold Sun would reach. For as It is clear from what has gone before, that the sun is at the bottom of the horizon I am reframing one thing, I am not reframing another hab e t S u b fph asra but parallel make the biggest changes in the shade, the biggest the variety of sea-breaks shows the fate. Hence the rise and fall of the faiths, to use the eastern and western dimensions in Boreal climates are wider, verfus Borea Hincfydera, which us neither while they have fallen, they have already risen to the Antipodes. Like the fub fphasra reda, forget who are neighbors to this, cool the leaves of the times produces hourly; so, I gave him a surprise, fub fphasra parallel, and oblique to this one, He anticipates whole days, and wishes: it is done This is because of his great obliqueness fphasrae For the sun will reach the horizon there It remains for a long time, because of the inclination of the ecliptic; it is the only step that can be done more often there is no doubt, until the Sun only bows in the ecliptic, which is of one degree in the vertical, and he will respond to the catch, he will run, others will slide how many days For one step in the circle ver tical of this fphasne refpondentin the ecliptic zo. grad. L lf IU. And now go a step further lem fupra horizon in parallel eva- the thief, five days sooner, because two bus steps in vertical fumpits refpon- give gr. 1l. 44ll. 4fi1. in the ecliptic. The opposite will happen in the fphxra reda, where ecli a slight inclination of the eye to the horizon it has a nem, and the first movement of the Sun from it he soon drove away with a smile; that in fphasra paral It does not take place when the sun is in motion
dus, and the same proper, the horizon lifts CHAPTER Theory of CHAPTER II. T)e audit of the Tables
ISIS cools in the di- by means of caufis, by proceeding experiments; order already he also craves, as it were on the basis of this kind of radiation anaclaftic to grow, and Let's see if they can be reduced to tables. That when I see no one's favor, we are the first in very difficult to break the ice men, smoke and die with hard work to break whole boards of dions to the steps of clay, mi, and to different means through experiments the most laborious, in order to con- to be fed, we prepared. They are indeed taboo in some book i. of Vitellius, which Kep- Most of them have also been made; fed by fin- guide them by minute steps and make them fertile having calculated, I found no one the theme of cooling panels from the air in a how much wine, a glass, and a similar denfius me a long time; for refractions in the middle of the air many of the pids decript, and founded accurate maps of fate Tycho, Keppler, Scheiner and others. True, to come to the point mouse, some lemmas here first, in which to the business of incompetence they contribute a great deal, they are to be promised. Lemma I The light travels more obliquely in the middle of the den it will be refracted at such a greater angle. jCXperience I first stumble upon the matter, then ipfa reason. The figure of Propo is repeated becomes L I. Where GB the ray fall so it is; translucent body surfaces flowersCD I mean, the more obliquely the light falls he said in pundumB, at such a greater angle broken Raised first the alhidada GB in G, and the light passing through it is refracted from the mass B let F be the refracted angle EBF: let the same inS be depressed, and I will irrigate it cem perpUndum B will break in M: it will be igi then the angle refracted E BM, the greater the angle EBF But this corner is so narrow it will be larger, the closer the Sun is the horizon; from the other side, I am so tninor, quan Vicinius was at the top. And this experience reality is certain and infallible; they are snowing the angle refracted with the oblique angle tis continuously crefccerct, does not fade reframing Since it is oblique incidence becomes the argument of difference, il as it grows, it will grow differently, as well as not Tat Kepler Quodfi the angle of refraction in oblique incidence, for example grad. create fcere would define it, and it would be effected both in and or84 incidence rate therefore the mean difperfion reftitilTet each to inclination, hence in and elsewhere by The degree would no longer be renewed: attemper He reframes the middle of the difference, because the middle denfius; therefore hinders the less light fpar- gatunfed is blocked by femper as long as fpat- gir and each while he normally eiinftiterit; then for the ray is refracted in fe. It is clear therefore to prove Rrr Lem Artis mmi Book Vlll. The art of Anaclafi ca? ars I. Lemma II The more obliquely the light falls, the more it fades a greater rejifiance is made from the same medium, how would he proceed to the returner, you fpcctu ipfius of the middle O It light A medium denfius BM; AB, KM, parallels of the Sun, their dtflantia ML. Then when BLM is ready, put &L8M there is a sharp oblique; will therefore be LBMmiaor than the BLM; &LM lake, that of the smaller ones snake B fubtcnd. it, it will be less on the side BM, right BLM fubtendent: But LM ii- lapff width, because BLM rcftus cft; BM but the width of the meeting line by which; therefore there is more denficity in BM than in LM Therefore, a major improvement. When for the refraction becomes an affected movement, then when light in the inner part of the body of the lower middle it is impinged upon, and the fupercies are due to infinite punishment fta ends, let the fire affect the movement here more infinite infinite points of light, let this cold confidence no less than the ipfa heart cleanliness therefore it will affect more, fpeftu the denfior of the light should occur; I'm going to die it occurs from an oblique angle, as is already often the case. From this it is clear that refractions around the horizon zontem of precipitation increases for to grow in portions. Because BLM, BCA reftifunt, &LBMutrique
common triangle, will be the triangles B AC, BLM daughters; therefore as CA to AB, so LM adMB; fed AB are fertile slopes tions ABC, which at the end of the fu- bito grow Therefore BM; but in BM, ad ML we said that the ref'rays should grow, except that you do it proportionally they grow by inclination; therefore they grow and refraction while Problem Calculate the refraSlm tables. Therefore, if any inclination is re- composed of broken, broken elements ftion, and incline the refractions of the rest the compositions of the works, complete with fire, those which is made, by reason of Kepler's method We will calculate the skin. Let it be the middle first water, the radius to be cut will incline gra hard angle of reflection ray of refraction steps, whose fertility is So say Making an angle of degrees. to the fruitful angle o. five at the end of the reftutn degree thus the angle of refraction is degrees. for partial refraction inclination grad. minutes to which was added grad. minute (by him that half of which is refracted with water it occurs, as in a different proportion, qoe is tqqqyx to prodibuntjo. degree O. min. Therefore, when the fim- the complex refraction of the inclination becomes the ratio nal, corner to corner, will be distributed m other tendencies. Then any is multiplied into the product of the refracted angle, they are not yet fully known: so often crawl the growth of the maker is staggered, until it becomes nothing refutations, and discrepancies. The Tragmatic Paradigm A refracted angle of degrees Butione fafto met for fimplid refraction grad. minutes. which fub trailed by leave grad. whose the whole, the fire making the corner o. it is here duftusin gr. min. divifufquc per finum totum oftendit gracL pro part of the refraction which is from the fertile which before were also fubtracted from Therefore, this is subtracted from the already reduced gr. min. and there remain gr. min. the end of which is the exceplus of the maker the whole is which mukiplicarur in degree min. oftendit2. grad. min. Nor therefore it was earlier, when the 3rd grad. min. they were led away: therefore a3 grad. min. already this grad. min. fubtrafta re they leave degree min. whose maker exceflus2255'4- oftendit2-grad min. but he does not agree either. then again here fubduftus a grad. min. leaves degree min. of which in the grade min. He was greatly offended 2nd degree min. Since then here from the former if it is indefinably different, it must be quefe. There will therefore be a refraction of those who are inclined tion grad. 2nd degree min. And by this method We have created a table in which the refraction nes from air into water composed of two ci element to take steps in to be cut perpendicular to the radius ex are given Canons of calculation of refractions in water and air Canon I UT making an angle of xefrafti o to the end the whole, so the angle of refraction B to the refraction of degrees min. Therefore heoria %efraffiiomm. Therefore, the conversion of reason: As making BI tangent to HI, so CH to HL; and by dividing it, as the fine grain ad tangent HI, so CLad LH In addition as CE refracted to so CE adCL. If, therefore, he be deceived, draw the bow CE gra two 8o. bow CH finish three times the arc of HE will be BS HI BH. find by A there are Canon IncIinatio irrefraCta G has refra a total of o. degree these things from leaves an angle refracted gra two whose yield is as doing all this to the end, so is the whole re- fraction o. to the other side Er go this part will be fimplex iVmifr grac- min. of one degree, this is called denomination tor represents the parts of one step. Many then multiplied by will give the total refraction even in the same parts hence the fubtracted numerator of the fimplitic part will leave the appropriate part
%K1 o. degree min. Canon III. UT inclination unrefracted to fuam fimple refraction B I2inw gr- so the inclination unrefracted C to the end fold Therefore multiply B by C to produce and each is divided by A and will be found fraction of one grade min. whence gr. this is, the inclination will be unrefracted of the same party will leave the fraction of the angle of the fimplices, for whose fecundity is that Just the end of the whole to the end fertile so grad. min, to something else. Canon IV TNinclinationegrad. grinds the total Take the fraction then refract the angle To the end of the whole, so is the total refraction I will be absent; Let it be that fecans gr. to the end the whole so ad the fourth, this is, to JrT7m-erit here nume the country is the fourth part of the entire refraction a lawsuit; As the denominator denotes the parts new level; therefore multiplied by bit grad in the same parts hence the fibulatory part will leave the fimplex for suitable parts Part fimplex for inclination grad j
T TT inclination grad. to nem grad so the part of that is fimplex, this is “mf? to the lower part of the inclination of the grad. this. eft, ad37jrm. of one degree, or degree min. side The first approach to matching theme First part of the fimplex this is grad, min. They are led by inclination not degrees and they will remain grad. min. whose exponent is nutoto remanetdifference Then let it be done, that the whole fine be ad so part fimplex4 j. to the fourth and the first part will be found to be appropriate, that is, the numerator of the fractional part of the mul it is multiplied by difference, and produced the numerator of the quotient, and the denominator be multiplied throughout the end, produce and the denominator of the quotient. And dcolucc fraction WsnssIll. fteduCtaad degrees. St minutes, he makes the first part of the con crane grad min. And from this one with the paradigm it is clear, by what reason whose refractions are the appropriate parts you must elicit by pruning. True to say have a calculation ture, hereTa- the bubble of refractions with incredible effort fupputatam, together with the operations made to put it before the eyes; to become someone cal He understood the reasons of the back less, from the table the propofita wants to draw some light. oo Z eArtis Magna Liber Vl Ars Atiae la fica Tars Table I. sAnaclaJlica, fye KefraSliones from air into water composed of double ele- Ment, first, fecund, Kepler's fecundumpleasure, the incidence of degrees of attachment perpendicular to the radius. The difference between the two is accepted any of the nearest Rejralhones G. incident G M S
G. incident G M S
G. incident G M S Theory of
G. incident G M S G. incident G M S G. incident G M S
d yo o Jrtu magm Uber VII1. Art Anackfllca? arts1. j G M S G M S
"TT Theory 'RefraBionmn, G. incident G M S G. incident G M S G. incident G M S
Let R, in this table, denote the angle of refraction; the rest, operations to rescue him, according to the precepts handed down in the proceedings. jirtis magm Libet Vl Art Anaclaftica Pani. 'labulaih Anaclajftca clay refractions to be calculated containing cperations. Angle Part of it Part of the refraction angle A simple part. A suitable part angle rc angle re- complex crane you refracted
I z tAflronmia eAnaclafttca. Table III. Jnaclaftica, five refraStimium ex here in hqttamX Scheiner's offer Grad. Grad. refradt. . Com- Grad. Grad. refractJ Com- jGrad. Gr. give back Com- Air Water: pious Air Water it. pious You are Water it. pious I
Quasre in the column (titled Grad. Ae ris) levels of incident rays; co the beam will give the angles refracted in steps and minutes For example, let to make a dispute, which steps are refracted level see this level in the column, whose title is Grad. Brass, and a column, to whom title Grad. refracted of water, and will give gr. min. O. who is the degree of refradfus fub which: you will not proceed in other ways. column the title of which is the Complement, for this purpose he may wish to instill the performance; complete by Menta reaches the top of the steps. Problem Inftmmntum mefopticm ana- to confirm the clajik. First let the cup be perfect for the bicycle CBDE, whose inner hollow fu- I will finish with two fcmicircles, which are south whether, refer to the vertical, itl qUatuor you will divide the quarters, and it will give the pound E Nadir pundtum opposed to the vertex: and it is done meridian CED, primary vertical BE: B center of the world: horizon in parts, feu divided into four quarters: CE D meridian, whose quadrant ED in o. divide exactly equal parts starting from E I am going In the second place, for this waste prepared in such a way as you will adjust the Azimuth double, as in the center B freely around the axis mo he loves the truth; which, in order to make it more comfortable, the side quarter BO, intruded by two anvils it is necessary, as in those velvet hinges Sss bufdates Artismagn# LiberVlll. Art AnaclafticaTarsl. bufdara about the axis EB, ptodu&um in O, movement, it can erase the horizon: it will refer to nor is this the quarter of all the azimuths made Thirdly, the center B of the quadrant rule, or alhidada as much as possible, fubtily elaborated, intruded by pinnacidia, or even a small canal, such as GB it matters', attach it, and you will have a quarter in front ready tification of offering refraSiions of this injlru- liar The twofold way of refradlio of this in- with the help of the ftrument they are polished, lively, velradiofa of the Sun; explain both Traxisoh- ccmus. I will therefore determine the pundla re- frafooneT of frauds in the vafe anaclaflico hemicycle. First, you will fill the vessel with water, as the center B is immediately exposed to water. De from there you will direct the alhidada fupra fuguli from we are a quarter of a degree from io. starting carefully noting which step below which the living stumbles upon in the quadrant ED, and you will mark this one carefully, for there will be a snake here a refracted game, which is known as a throat incident io. Promoted again given the fupra degree xo they love to spoil three times the degree to which the living reaches quadrant ED; and this together with the minutes you were known for the same reason, and fic of Crete, give you will wipe away the unseemly decades of refraction; then to meet their steps you will convert But the pundta had better be deterred they are threatened, one with fubtiliobel, the other with manufub You will draw water corresponding to the pundta: and this manner, let it be thoroughly instilled, and the quadrant has been properly adjusted, see fate tus, &fecurus efl. But the solar radiation so you will break the board. Fiat first in some exact horizontal plane Azy the defeat of the mutes and Almucantari, such as we taught in the fifth book. Then at the time of the noon of the first sun degree of fubeunte, offer, which I dimiffi by alhidada radium they will restore the degree in which drante ED: this will be the maximum refracted level mae Almucantaras correcting the ifti of the day; as well known Then do this work I obtained the Almucantara clays from the sun you will boil with a spinning wheel. Note, however, that these figures offering a vessel together with a quadrant D, the direction of the sun's azimuth must be directed: for it will be done, like Azymutha, and Almuca of Jfion you inscribe the tares with one operation. True Magaada. when this work is done, another practice is fub- let's join, it's done. Let there be two hemicycles of equal height; You were intruded into the gnomons by the masses; divide a quarter of a square meter; hxc fim-ul expo trust in the Sun; one full of liquid, the other by the same void; gnomon of empty radio the rum of the diredtors, and the other below the liquid the degree of refracted rays is often give in this induftria we refradlions of whom
we find any liquids, such as a little pofl it will be said From this operation it is clear, on what account not refradlions only from air into water, fed into oil, wine, and other things of different kinds liquors of the nuptials, in the glass also, and cry- the phthaline bodies to be covered, and in tables they can be reduced True, as another example RefiaSio i any refractions in water, wine, oil, glass, smoke fervatarum: tables of refractions here fub- let us join; nor any curious machine let us be seen in the tori reticuiffe, from which also different to another's medium of refraction. You will see the rents with no end of pleasure. And from air, indeed, for wine, and hardly any oil we find the difference in the snow in minutes; wherefore, as we have offered them, here in ten We propose only two steps, ex with whom I was a good editor, and I made a break for the other it was easy to repeat the rest of the steps gods, according to the rule of the middle proportion He will be able to invigorate by eliciting the nals. tAfironomia Anaclaftica. Table Knaclaflica rays to be cut into Wine, Oil, Glass, ex thanks to the Author. Colds Colds Colds Colds out of the air out of the air out of the air out of the air Water wine Oil. glass Ray Ray refract Ray refract Ray refract Ray refract incident Bion action Bion Bion G
From which tables it is clear, in wine more to the perpendicular refraction radius, than in water; and in oil more than in wine; and more water in the glass than in the spoons. If so let it cool down in a glass of water, then she shall be, and she shall be how will he transfer All these cares how much material could be made in Phyfica from we cried But in this place at least I took the same pictures from Vitellius to send do not trust; ex quibuscuriofus Lectorfa Cile will find the difference between colds. Table from ViteUion. Snake game in you will die English ref. from air to Water English ref. from air to glass (Eng. ref. from water glass English ref. from water to The air English ref. from glass to The air English ref. a glass and Aquaip.
De %efaBiombm Atmofphara. There is no one in the Aftromian business who has so many difficulties It is complicated with cultures, and that about refradionibusfyderumex aere ortis. When m for there is scarcely a horizon which is not from the other let him not trust the teeth of the brass; it is done as in different places near the horizon even the most infringing offer vata, yet they give birth to as many errors as there are the bearers of the pledge. They knew this re- and Tycho also, who was infested with frauds Sss Artis magna Book VIII Kepler. Additionally, Atmofphsram op a foot unequal to him of uncertain height; It is not difficult for us to have a fixed price it would be a reduction of exaggerations. For which the opticians demonstrate, the height of ma mil- lyers, it is not made of the same material the effedtric of crepuscles, also lyum effie effedtricus Since the material the refractive index becomes liquid, moist, va slow, nay, the evaporation of water; it is clear the same smoky and fiery, of any kind from they are breaths, not otherwise than the air this anaclaftic will be eluded, and the air from the water is washed away. So smoke in the higher places they will obtain those who have some opacity ha blessed, the light of the Sun before the Rising to us who they reflect it, yet they are not fit for it break the same When, therefore, it becomes so refracted. Art AttdclaJiicaTars I, the variety of countries, it is difficult to be certain of anything I was able to deal with this business. Certainly re- The betrayal of the faith by Tychonc obfervats in Uraniburg, notably by those whom Ro- Then Schinerus and others offered they run, they differ: nay, this refraction does not tan then it is noted, the fub di verfa, fed the same is found to vary with the molds I will not say days, fed hours; When something else happens a refraction of the sftivs, another in the Irish times, one for Ortum Solis, another for Occafum, another in the interior, and in the maritime regions, another in the mountains, others in the plains. And although difficult his bearing should not extend to minute fe, in aftronomic business, however, multiplied;
blunders, insufferable, intolerable. We here I attach the tables of the refractions of the faiths mouse let nothing of the Arti noftra ominffe by force we are given Three tables of Refr&ions of faith in the air, from the burning, and the calculation of Tycho. The Third Table of the EfraUions of the Sun. G. Refradt. G. Refradt. G. Refradt. G. Refradt. G. Refradt. II II II II
SecmidaTabeUa RefraSliomm Lum. G. Refradt. j I Refradt. Cold Cold Cold
Third zAJlrommia Anaclajlica i i The third 'Table T' (breakdown of the Fixed Stars. G. Refrad. G. Refrad. G. Refrad. G. Refrad. G. Refrad I II
Ufos. Which degree is O, or or they will give a certain refraction; itaio, gr. refpondent i o1 fic about the rest. The problem. IIT Anaclaftic quadrant in business conjlruere to be used therically. Let the two quadrants face each other ABC, DE, of whom five will be mentioned of incident radiation, here anaclafticus, live refractor, each of which is divided into shark parts; this difference, however, as the quadrant of ABC divided by steps ra to the gods at the center, and the quarter of C ON THE HIDDEN STEPS, WOODS. After this I propose to you one for your eyes from the three anaclaftic tables, as you will p a little before the prophecies. Who though others how much they differ in minutes, in business however, there is no difference between the issue is to be feared. So it's safe to use either way you will be able to First, then, see which steps re- let the fraud fall in the first degree tis, and look for this one in quadrant A BC, at the foot of Bincipiendo; refracted au you are looking for it in the quadrant CED, from the point E by beginning or on the contrary, and by degrees this, five minutes steps from the center line commanders, which line will be repulsed: then Ungu The steps are refracted in order, next to the rays in meeting the accident in the board, in the limbo E D, you will arrange the quadrant CED, as in the first gradufadumeft; and I would have a quarter anaclafticum CEG to pre-formative levels ready, whose anchor in every business It is almost an infinite number of feet, as it will be seen a little later. juttioinqvi- Angles of refraction in hifce tables Where are we concerned, when each one of them has an inch? from Ihbtradition angle refracted from an the throat of the incident fada. As I would like to do, who the angle of refraction from air into water fpondeat 8o. steps of the incident: fubtraho therefore the angle refracted from 8o. return tooth, and they will come out break the angle of Dion For the same reason: I would like to do when tus becomes the angle of refraction from the air in force trum; fubtraho refradus from gradi bus incident, will remain for the corner refradianum: and do the same to the judge of yesterday um From these it is clear that in the same transparent denfiore first angle of refraction from an the greater the incident throat, the greater the angle fraud from a smaller angle of incidence; from the angle of refraction is also greater the greater the angle of refraction; will be the smaller the angle of incidence of the greater rubbish zArtis Magna Liber VllL Ars Anaclafiica Tarsi, the smaller one; proportion of eye re- fraflionisab angle of incidence greater to il The greater the light, the greater the proportion the angle of refraction from the angle of incidence mi do not go to that minor; angle, refra- tus, he is quick, to whom the angle of the inci is added refraction of the smaller tooth angle nis, efl the greater refracted angle, which he adds the angle of incidence is smaller than the angle of incidence shaft of refraction I'm going to flood. Ve Retis horizontal anaclajUci ftruUura, IN the anaclaphtic quadrant preceding in line CE, the magnitude of ftyii is determined for example, C, S, and so on from pumftos to the line CD, draw a parallel tur which is a horizontal line, five horizontal plane anaclaftic re will carry When this is done, it is brought into the ledger CD line, of any size be transferred from the anaclaftic quadrant line SQ together with the former divisions, and with one foot of the circle in the middle of the punft R ito lines CD, as if through the center of the other tranflate punished circles are led eccentrically those who will give almucantaras anaclafticas
qusfitas, as is evident in the following figure. If I continue the last circle in par tes, or divide it into quadrants, and ex Punished by the R center, the fault is divided by the divisions you will be punished, they will give illsazymutha, but which is so net anaclaftic to all the gods the rice is washed away The demonstration of this depen from previous experiments. See the shape of the problem. Problem Horologium a naclafiicum horizontal with the registration of ccelefium circles Jlruere pRimd, prsparetur a certain vessel AB CD square whose sides are AB, CD, AC, BD, they are set up at the bottom, so that the water can flow in They want to contain it perfectly: but how much? if the rich sides were humbler, so much the better the actual clock will be strengthened (required for the mouse here is only a clock zontal, but not vertical or horizontal the mixture that would be made would be fi fponds of waste aitiores, to write. Secondly, when this is prepared, let the net circulate reanaclafticum ABCD; fuddy-duddy tisanaclaftici given so much phtylo, as much as al The degree of weight of the vessels, as shown in fig. Hsc therefore ftyii is a quantity determined on the line quarter, from C to S it is smoked, then to S ad CE, it is drawn normal, which lines anacla He will make the ftics drawn from the center C To the tongue therefore the intervals which are in the line SQab S, and punfta of murders, from the center, feu instead of a clock, at the bottom of ABCD, the circles were written down, those who were Almucantaras ana they will refer to the clafticas: any of these be in divide the steps into two, and from the center E reflas you will lead, you will have Azymutha difto written With the help of a third of this network, the hours incribable mica Get a map of Almu- they love singing and offering three times in the morning at Sun in Cancer con- they will kill Azymuth and his Almucantara; and find here Rome Azy muthum Almucantaram efie degree min. Where is this azimuth? he kills, there is no more For the hour or you will offer in the same Azimuth's tropic interlude Almucantara, which table will show you. For the common the killing of both he will fix the punftum hors or in the tropic Therefore, the pundits of the clay rare difta induftria in Points hour you will join the hyperbolic curved line, I would have a tropical Similar clothes purnfta zAJironomla kmclafitca. You are looking for punda hours in Y, starting with from the hour of for common slaughters The azimuths with almucantar will be required the points of the hours, which; give the combined reda buntaquator For the same reason punda ho rare in the tropics which the femper presents to you at a given hour common intersections of Azymuthq when Almucantar Hours from sunrise, cafu through its own table for a small reason infcribes, starting at hour, You return the common pundas of the slaughters by connecting the lines, and we would have the hours which litas By the same token, the hours are plain-' you will draw the tares through your own The site is empty. Vfus The Sciatheric anaclaphtic vessel is placed to the south line, and filled water, until the apex of the Ityl immediately covered the water he trusts, and will show within a few hours anaclaftice, from which the waters are overflowing naked, he would stray far from others. Horolo therefore the horizontal anaclaftic de- We wrote what had to be done. Problem Clock 'Vertical Anaclafticttm to describe So I'm going to turn the clock around heat anaclafticum, you need a form for this you will be successful by writing a suitable clock. Like for in a horizontal clock libusfpondis, lest the ray of the Sun, the shadow fpom If we were to be prevented from giving, we would rush in: so here a vessel of high margins should be blessed, as cast a shadow on the vertical plane he is able to wander. Therefore let the vessel be prepared then ABCD, whose vertical plane is horo ABQD becomes the end of the log, and in it the anacla Let us write down the schedule as before network mode, vertical anaclaftic con- Itruendi docuerinuis. Proliferation The device of vertical anaclajlic flutes. First, by the amount of the gnomon trans- blown in G, from this, as if the center of a circle defcribes, from which I divided into parts
to the center of the hidden line, which line o 5o o NHM, they will perform in as many places, per which lines to the horizontal NHM, duda they will give vertical lines, fire Azimutha, as here only in some You see the azimuths. Snfaiptio Secondly, to these Almucantaras in this art 'Aimucm- fcribes. take the anaclaftic quarter, hmm into whose jet you transfer Ag from pun(q0 q Clockwise a little before vertical punda in the NHM line, pundo H between cepta: so that G fpacio be accepted ae such as on the side of the quadrant, viz. B vtp G aquale B rT G ae quale B quo fado, ex hi pundis perpendicular to the BR dudse will be fixed the letters O, P, Q, as in the figure here attached you see Thirdly, the two lines from the center of B you will carefully note the common in terfedion punda with vertical tra- dudes For if all the killings punda, which; they are made by anaclaftids with li nea O, vertical grad. transfer in the meridian line from the pound H you will have all the pundas of Almucantara on the hour line; fire Azimuth Si then the same from line P in tertica the issue of the clock grad, ex pundi T tt i Artis magm Book VIII, if you transfer on both sides, you will have Almucantaras You have also registered here. If, finally, from Q transfer the same from the points XY, inline vertical degrees you will have, &fungula Al- vertical mucantara points. registered If, therefore, all these points ad I combine the same degree of fpeCtance with the curve you wear, you will have almucantaras according to the clock register at a level where all will be hyper- boiica lines, as you see. So join this network tables for each hour, four and a group of groups for gender hours of the previous fubfid, and other lines in fcnpferis, you will have the clock of all gods indicative of those Demonstration of this see in the preceding fufe tradi as well. Vfu4 clock. QI, therefore, should you trust the hour of the day, or others to the first mover; fpe&antia, fitua- then the clock was watered down you will complain until the apex of ftyii immediately. Art dnaclafiicaLars I. let the foot be hidden in the waters, and I would have intent: nymph species, which were first naked in the shallow waters they did not appear for any reason, already from pro at the bottom in the foothills, raised clearly and beautifully to compare with no end of wonder, volup you will look at the tate. Chorus ID Rimo is clear from the traditions, for which reason, da- to any vertical plane in any that part inclining, in it anaclaftic Sciathericum poffit. In the second place, for what reason did I make my heart hollow? the pore of any of the sides, by the said method, with the help of one Itylus, in the clay sides, quan even as they declined, the hours when you were around the anaclaflics of art drink to the police But with it all from let them be open to those who retreat, and let them cling to them longer I did not want it, when we were attracted to other more beautiful things; as well as LeCtor curiofo new rumindagan- I would leave the hard stuff. AN AC L ASTIC ART PART TWO CHAPTER I Anaclajlica cjnomonica in (puibufcmque interior [superficies, partim to be exercised in geometrical and arithmetical ways. Problem In hemifphx. no I concaved the hours, of the foreigners cleftium circles apparatus bring it down brightly, so that the gnomon from I went to the center normally, everything that but none of them were snowed with water When the vessel was filled, oflendal8 Which And we set the clock Achwg, RADAM at this point Ho log in his nem, that once upon a time Ahaz conltuxifie, fa- they give the letters z, Pa- ralip chap. Ifias Cujus Jofephus lib. I. c. He remembers. So he called the Iphaes Prophet the Lord, and brought back the shadow of the pearl the accusations, which he had already defended, in the watch of Ahaz ten steps backward. Hebrew Reading Maghnaloth has Ahaz, Afcenfiones, five the steps of Ahaz; The Chaldaeus has Thargum tfurath ehen fchagnoth, this is the shape of a stone of hours Of which Horologio fufiflime tra ctabitur in the Encyclopadia noltra Sacra c. of Sacred Gnomonics; where true conflicts Ctionisejufde accounts, as far as from the old to draw from the monuments of the East it is cooked, we will produce by God. We call
but this time the clock was unclasped when, Ahaz's clock, not what they did while the laws of refraction were established; fed that, as in that work of Ahaz Horolog's shadow miraculously manifested back ceffit, thus in this clock prxfentiancala- let the shadow naturally recede; with this force lovely clothes Note in what time a line in the shell; the empty shadow falls on the water; and having already filled the same shadow with which, many steps below the water ceffifte re you will find; for this is the nature of refraction nis, as much as a direct shadow ray he anticipates, the ray of the shadow only desires anaclafticus But by the way of these so many indications, already T heorkefraoiionum. already to delineate the anaclaphtic shell I will give it to you, let us turn the industria noftra. Let it be HAIV anaclaphtic shell, in which aftrola- You would have trusted to write an anaclaftic bium. A, V; on both sides inH, fadfco. What di- viftonepera&a, fi perfingulas five par tes, feu through the center N, feu nadir first next to the prob. par. of this, to whom incribes drant anaclafticum that will happen ft. the lines quoted from the quadrant exGinEG, lim bum quarantis anaclaftici dudtas, in lim bum, one out of four, hu right conchx quadrants you will translate will end that circle from the center N by M, dood the horizon anaclafticum; within the quenil finally Almucanta ras, Azymutha, then of hours of infcribcs, to make too Aymiithomm, hfe of mucantareum in a vafe conca I want to register. In the second place, the horizon is wide HVIA in parts, or in four quarters of the two dimitting HI AY with the worst debauchery tur, at the beginning of the counting from you drew the bow; you will have vertical lines, ii ve azimuth anaclaftically defcript. That is so in awe For when according to Theor. Art Ttt noftrss' unregistered thorum, ar imactn urcus Artis magnae Liber Vi A rs A naclaftica'lars I. noftrx anaclafticx, center of the Sun, pun- the light of refraction, and the refracted ray together with the lines which they terminate, in the same fint the fuperficie refracCtion is lifted up: therefore in which however vertical the sun is, so is its shadow now the fub will hold the part opposite to the waters, do not fecusacinvafe lacking water, refrigerate for there, the shadow of the phylum exMin P; MPin will therefore be punished in the same way the fuperficia of action, and they will not be; no, say no ction will be made to the perpendicular, and not fietad perpendicular, which all will be stolen and contrary to experience: it is clear therefore that Azymu- tha refractions no in fc width to admit That was to be demonstrated. Azymuthis, therefore, having registered, Almucan You will inscribe the anaclaftic taras with this pragmatism. The anaclaftic quadrant CEG is transferred, into one of the sides of the Concha quadrant: of this, the induftria, which I taught a little before a mouse; and the horizon will be anaclaftic MLT. If, therefore, from the center Nconchx through the rest the point of the anaclaftic quadrant in the south Have you drawn the circles to the center? cos, you will have Almucantaras Azymuthis naclaftice infcript, the first hori- zontcm anaclafticum, in which all re- fractions are finite; but the rest of the circle the rest of Almucantara, in which refraction it is done, they will report; until the inpun&oC center ho of the horizon, which the Arabs call Nadir, eva- nephesant, with refraction at the point, no- that is to say, in the lowest degree, let them define Thirdly, you have therefore registered fruitful dates the rules of Azymuth and Almucantar in the va- fe hemifphxrico anaclaftice in those that- whatever kind of circles, with the help of You can write so many of these tables. Let them be first hor aftronomicx inferiben in the first place Mr.
Hours ajirotiomicarnm inyafe given naclajiica depreptio. TNfcriptura therefore the hour i. ii. so- to pass See where the azimuth of this ho ra will be killed by Almucantar, in for by common slaughters The bow will be brought down in an hour. ii. what- faith; Azymutha quidem'quxres in lim bo of the horizon from the hour i x just five hours dianae punfto H, on both sides. Eating and you will find races among the circles of Anacla- parallel to the horizon: for where these they make zymutha, there the given hours pun- cfta marked For example, the first re-
fpondent (Solein jo conftituto) Gr. min. which is its azimuth. This in the limb of the quadrant BC, verfusT calculated, see where Almucantara xy, grad. when min. who will correct the same horx, me He will kill Azymuth, who stayed: for there it will be punftum horx primx in the tropical v}o. Pa ri ratione reliqua datx horx com connect the points found with the bow, and I would have a certain hour, so the bow was re Leaders of several hours. If it is true You would like to infer the zodiac, punfta the rest the same profuse reason for the parallels where you will find the tropics. For by punfta hours parallel competence, line why va conjunfta, they will give the parallels of the pawns. The matter is quite easy, and there is no difficulty he suffers any. Tahtk Afironomy hnaclaflca. Anaelaphtic Table for hms AJlronomieU
Hours ab Ortu, Occajii anaclaftict inference A Take the anaclaphtic tablet horarurc abortion, and see for the same reason which in the proceeding pragmatism Azymuthorum, Almucantarum Soleir clay 4oV22r, conftituto, femper initia fadto from the hour (fiquidem the hour per horizon ipfe anaclafticus refers) per for common murders in the given ho ra By splitting Y fa&as, you led the bow you will have an hour of So in the bow You will proceed to the bus of the cots. Ttt
sArtis Magna Liber The Anaclafic Art of Anaclaftic table, for hours from Ortu, Occa fu
Somewhere Azym. B zq zi B
Somewhere Azym. Somewhere Azym.
Somewhere Azym. Somewhere Azym.
Somewhere Azym. ZI A zz
Somewhere Azym. zz t II
Somewhere Azym. zi z6
A III. An anaclafiic record of the unequal hours. A Take the analytical table of hours unequal, whose head is the same protuberance it is with the preceding ones; offer where Azy- mutha, Almucantara at the first hour from Or you of the Sun in three fignes 'joYsale slay centin vafe; by communiaenimhujufmo- God will give the points of the bow led to the killings the first hour was uneventful. No the rest of the hours you will go ahead. table sAjlronomia A hnaclaftic table for unequal hours.
M G M G M G M G M G M G M Somewhere
ioAxo ziA 33AZ7 A! 8A5Z A Vertie. Somewhere
Anaclaftic record of the vomerum cmejlium. on the table the house of the family, where let Azymutha, given to StAlmucantaras kill them in the house in three stakes, by these for the killings of the arched bow will give li the quality of the houses Anaclaftic table for the houses of the coelfists.
House G M G M G M House Somewhere Azym.
yz VIII Somewhere Azym.
j VII jAlmuc. jAzym.
Corollary. In addition, the prodigious reason of the incribable potters and the camp, which was at the first mobile dodtri- for they belong All this in Proteus They are recorded in the Sciatheric fuse.
The index system. The index must be as long as its apex "Gat the center of the horizon, in which place you will be able to tap anything else, eg grace the last of the birds drinking or ftatuaj phtylo indicating; as long as pexceptrutn to obtain the horizon. They note while also, the tip immediately fub water The cup should not be poured on the side redle would show Problem VII. In the cylmdraceo cup of the proceeding doTfl- for anaclaftke incrihere. a hollow cylinder becomes difficult to inftkuere fphasrcgraphic operations, his interior debauchery first in piety, Shall we cast them, that they may be in the circle at last fashioned with coelfts, and I became hollow again, like a certain speed, movement, tempo He was able to demonflrate the anaclaftic ray. Therefore let the fubti plate be made of copper or brass
the slime, in which, the fuperficium of the plane inte rior cylinder according to the rules in the cylinder You will translate the traditional Nacampticus. Let ABCD be a cylinder, as s. figure Iconymmi teaches; whose interior is fuperficia becomes equal to the square plane EBFD, according to z. the figure of Iconium ollendit, juxta mode fol. z handed down. II. This Jrthmagna Book Art Anaclaftica VmlU II. Divide this square into Asquale parts, quickly into quarters equal to the quadrants of the horizontal cylinder, and it will be in normal descending lines divide the quadrangle into parts flat, whose tongues square hollow cylindrical bus they are A quarter of an hour divide the lower sides into parts, as appears in the figure: and from Angu lead the lines by five or ten steps adFDbafin normal, to the line of mere diana IK parallel lines which they refer to Azimuth. III. Hifce incribes Almucantaras them, which is done by reason. Take a quarter Ana- Aftronomia hnatlajlka anaclafticum, on whose side AD, I determined nabis quantity VE femidimientiers cy sly propofites Let the parallelogram be mum VE S F, as in figure i. Iconic app ret, whose weight is apex gnomon, gitudo VS, its height, AC, or BD side of the cylinder, and finally the VESF, pa- rallcogram half of the cylinder ret. iVi Hocpciado, carefully noted, where li spin anaclafticsE from the center of the quadrant du- dte fecentlatus EF; for the slaughter of these do you return punda, parallels conjoined they will give Almucantaras anaclaftice defcrip- you The demonstration of this matter depends on Theorem i. of this. V. To this network of vertical lines, Sc ho with the horizontal ones, the rest of the group the equipment of the bodies of those profuse ra tion, with which he was infcripfifti in precedencc cup, viz particular species of them, incribable; ha- and he drank it. It will be a cup situation common to all the rest. Problem In a cup, a conical cup of fire, the same ana- to complete a clcftkam fiphcerography. Qlt cup ABE, as figure teaches, whose interior is close by rules in a conical cup fol. traditions you will throw it on the plane. Projected plane refer to figure SZX, whose scope in divide into four equal parts, by lines from and with each division you draw in the center Z; and the whole cone will be in four quarters really rich II. tes, you divide the feu degrees, as appears in the figure. After this, I made or grams of clay bring it back to the center of Z, the top of the cone you will lead, you will have verticals, feu Azymutha inferred from the cone. III. With these carried away Almucantaras in this you can't write Take a quarter of an anna clafticum, and injusiatere AD determined nabis coni femidimeriente AP, or eun you will apply it to the measurement of the waist of the PB, so that la tus one refpond axiconiPE, so that infi- gur. MN Oh, you see the fad; report and line MO slope of the inner side of the cone, feu cups MN the axis of the cone, the fire of the gnomon. Further on the MO line you will find punda Almu- of the chanters, the azimuths of the it is done Offer carefully, you line M O kill the lines anaclaftically from the center N, by IO the edge of the quadrant of the anaclaftic dude For the killing of these by means of a sword whether in one of the exlides SZ, TZ, XZ, traii- it flatapunda. utfigu teaches, from the center, the fire apice Z, a circle of twelve they will grieve. V. To this network Alnutcantaro Azymuthi- co dodrina of the first mobile through the tables of every kind of hour and circle own, by that profuse reason, which in the order with the teeth, we delivered it, and it froze. He teaches slowly, and you do not write. For alone it is difficult it is stuck in the plane of every body given a fitting; the rest of the laws of the index for those who are cast will be the same as those who retire. Cyatho therefore jufTainfcripfimus; which was to be done Problem tetrahedron, pyramidal feti, pra ditia, to infer Etfi iri of this kind of polygon of bodies the presedido becomes more laborious
the reason for inferibendorun, that, quath in mogenea, and of circular fuperficia fused we taught the bus bodies; not, however, for that reason we will stick to him the more fuzzily we fear to z. match Proteus, ubifufiusothnia it will be warmed up. So let it be in the first place phhterographic drawing anaclafticeper- to be made in a hollow tetrahedron fire pyramid equilateral inverses, which nosinfig. fig we know the letters ABCD. First, bring the whole pyramid into the plane there is that prodigious reason, in which it is unfathomable Problem. of the preceding part, and here in fig. appears. Second, the vertical inferibentuf diiffco also for the same reason as there fa while it is And here in fig. from the cehtrobafis of the pyramid R in the circumscribed circle in divide the parts by two vertical lines cendo: for where they will make a line there will be very heavy fire on the sides of the fire in the middle of transferring The third vertical qu o que u n right side in you will transfer the anaclaftic quadrant, ea which I made there, and here we thought that it should be added. Atquehusuf that the whole method of drawing is the same as I will quote the drawing of the fada in place of the tetrahedron. Desperation of the Almucantara in the Azyffiutfii Fe has a little to do here. Fourthly, I have translated the ninth figure of Azy- rriuthorum fpaciisRB, RC, Rd, Re, Rf. R g, Rh, half of one side of a plane tetrahedron from the R. the middle weight of the mustache of the pyramid, in which side AB to be puffed up Determine the same side of the quadrant AC tur axis of the tetrahedron, and they will refer to the liries of C iri catch the vertical dudse of the sides equilateral tetrahedrons. And so Almucan taras so incribes: or with help forfan fue Vvv rft cArtts Great Book Vlll. Anaclafic Art CPars I, 6iz rit, the anaclaftic quarter of the clay ver ticals of the side ACD, or CBD, as a cylinder dro i Figuratively fadumeft, to apply Fifth, see where the anaclaphtic lines come from In the center of the quadrant, they are a little hafce before you translate the vertical lines: we are done these points of fefiions on the sides on a plane after SG, GH, HX, as the 7th figure teaches, according to the precepts handed down in the previous ones tranftulere; tranllataque points fmgulis Correspondence of curved lines you will be joined together; they will give them to Almucantara half of the azimuths on one side ptas, which into the other half of the side you will transfer to the circle; hafce then to the rest sides, as shown in the figure. Sixth, to this network Almucantaro- azymu- the hours, the circle and the sky I was, by reason of what I had done in others, unworthy; with help that is to say, the tables for each line kind of accomodated, until the whole work you have finished True touch figure Problem X Triangular columns, feuprifmat, or et already parallelopiped, for any any of the sides of the pillars of the heavens cir Anaclafiicaincriptio of the languages. The bodies were given in Iconium, that is to say Aprifma, B parallelopipedum, Cco lumna pentapleura, D column hexapleu- ra; in whose concave fphaerography it is necessary to finish naclaftice: do so. First, the interior angles of the bodies you will first throw them on the plane by the profusion, which fol. aliifquepaf- He will make the end of the place. Second, the verticals were linearly charged with the help of circles, tongues, and mustaches circumscribed; for these things are done in par or I put it in the place where the sides were made to hang culars, parallel to each other you will drink Azymutha. The practice of honey you will see us in the places mentioned. Thirdly, Almucantaras incribes them with the help of aH of the anaclaftic quadrant, applying the vide-in- cet eumifupra fi. ngula azymutha, offer-fcrtti3- where are the anaclaftic rays from the center which the snarling dudes will kill the vertical molds: for the points of the feffions are wide in the vertical the transference of the bodies of the prophecies, give there are points through which the curved line is drawn they will fix broken almucantaras All those things which we inscribed in the preceding bodies, in you write CHAPTER III. De horologiis anaclaficis quibufcuncjue corporum concadis fnperficiehm fa
by the cilia method by offering Problem XI. Given the time several other in however irregular the planes, I say ci to outline yours. TSI almost no body he wants to be afflicted, in whose hollow scullery however irregular bus, and as I dip in the circle of the hour and the left-hand side of the line on that account, which I have given in the proceedings mouse, that is, geometric-arithmetic, in they are not hungry; because yet labor with fu- of performance occurring within the bodies va He grew up together, and the business was boring it turns out to be full: I thought of another method a mouse, by which, through the obervation, five mecha nic operation, very easy in infcriben- I grant that you may be in harmony with any body you wish. The intrumentum is repeated on fol. deliver then, 3c repeated here, in whose flat table first draw one of the cyathisanaclallice spherical, cylindrical, conical, as it pleased, gnomon, and the lines were right adapted in the first three problems the record of this, which we will impoft We'll call it a prototype, so it's a flat tab he does not want to be moved anywhere. Let them be but the table of the square sides of the quadripartite reflecting the ends of the world, and the cup of gold the southern line of the map near the side of Bo the charge will be placed After this, near the same meridian line that any body, in whose hollow body your fphaerographic drawing nem per deideras attached to it, so that both bodies together with a mobile board embedded in every he wants to be moved easily; and you will have I need to start registration stick Thirdly, Trttxis registration Aftronomia Anaclafiicai
Thirdly, with one of the sun's rays When the board is attached, rotate the board together with a wave, and so on until the shadow of the gnomon let him strike the twelfth point of the horse: in cya tho already anaclaftically delineated: in the same way offer also a moment of time, that drawing in a cup, or in any other con with a shallow hollow, no matter how irregular let the gnomon's shadowed spring strike a prick home and there is a point with a registered name ro iz. you will fix Then the shadow advanced the gnomon cup of the former hot, and put points in the other cup incidence: shadow: you will close until all you will complete the hours by such a method: for be moldy points in the concave curve marked li you will not be conjoined, you will have tropic together fixed with the points of the hours. Fourth, denub the board together with the vafe you will turn until the shadow of the previous cup falls ti er it to the point iz. T, covers; in the other the falling shadow: through the end point you will notice it in detail. Then the shadow of the former wriggle the table with the dust of the clay of the hours pundtainT promoted the shadow of another va a note for promotional promotions; punished for a line fixed in a curved line am equinoctial together with the pun of hours they will give Not a tropical faeces when you draw the punch of the hour in the cup with propofitum, let it be, that is to say, a shadow of a dusty clay You will be punished by the tropics. Corollary I, you will notice the cut of the cup next to the shadow, and he would have the pundta quafita. If the same dh this method is found in T, &qo, and I imagine la three punfta at one hour fpedtant re- you will have hours from sunrise, and occafu quaffitas I did not stool for unequal hours les, five planets, house cleftes, pots The birth of the zodiac, and what happens otherwise rare, or type of lines in the prototype criptum chato, from the shadow of the prototype ca: incidence: outline in the propofite cup twice Corollary 1L ILTInc is clear, more fimul vafa cujufcun- what form: I attached to this board, and with one and the same labor in each I was able to finish their registration Fe. Problem After polishing the tip of the gnomon outside the water, ad the fciatheric clock below the water to decrihere p Ari practice the rest of the hours, circles- that of the left hand, I prophesied various lines fill the cup For if the hour: from sunrise, occafu incribenda: fint, you will twist um bram cutting into the prototype cup the minute points of the hour from sunrise, and occafu in the tropic ss, the same as in the other TTUcufquetraffat was deSciatherics
anaclaftici, whose garden you stumble upon the tips of the phylites were immediately below the water fubdito: but now we must also act, who the hourly anaclaftics of the defcrib polish; as ft I gnomone outside of the water I want, nothing let his shadow stay under the water for hours tically demonstrates, when another incident then takes place V v v z of these Artismaqtut Ltber Vlll. hrs hnaclaficaTarsli. difpofition of these with red lines; teaches for ipfa experience, that how much the apex Ityl is more and more waste water is stressed, so much let them also withdraw in a pious refracted line from through perpendicular, and how much more below the water performance is depressed, so much so that let them approach more and more. So whether it be ma breaking in F, five in E, five in I, in each IEF line in another place; five times the refracted ray will be FD. Thus, the apex of the five phtyls be in A below the water, five in five in E, the fecundity of the so-called reasons How Jlylo ali how much outside, water eminently ho rare refraction give defcri- they are banned the ray will be either FD, or OX, or AK. And so the tables and quadrants fticasfubfidio horology bi poflunt at the tip of the gnomon, no matter what outside, or inside the water I like; for nothing something else is required here, the nifiutafcendent, or the shadow of the descending Sun through the summit? in fu finish the water you should note: this for there will be a point of refraction, in which um the bra of the apex of E is not otherwise broken into D, and let his fada cool down unless F is placed. Not dealiispun push the refraction from the tip camp If therefore in F anaclaftic quadran if you apply them, they will give the lines of anaclafticss from the center of the quadrant to the side BD eduds punda Aliuucantatarum It is registered almucantaris, &azymuthis in vafe ABCD, use fol. f is long; you will have a net in which fub water hours anaclaftice pifceris. True since this method seems more laborious fet: an easier method mechanically hujufmo- I am leading the preparations of God's schedule, that is to say, by offering, with any five. in- tra, five out of the water at the tip of the phtyli, of another a. naclafticifciatherici already fadifubfidio, ho rare anything inside the old vessel You can write this article. Exposed change the table a little earlier I fixed the frame with foliar rays; so inclined the bull, until the shadow touches the fucceffive om nia punda hours in quae&fingulain by writing in vain the clock prepared for him you will fix it at that time. Then you will twist punda hours in the tropics qo, the same im the first in the other wafej under the shadow of the fiftgno- monis, fic you will also proceed in puhdis of hours of painting: for it was you have joined the punda of one hour twice the clock at the top of the neatum. let it stand out of the water, let it stand in for a vessel filled with water, a shadow the tips outside, and within the water horasperfedc will be shown Since then, the father, no profanos place bee I was given five bottles outside, five inside the water fe, to whom I deliver by the practice of sacrifice as well as in each of the interior spaces at any irregular hour it cannot be defined. the head eAJlnmmia Anaclaftica. CHAPTER IV. T)e zrfnaclajlico-anacamptic clocks, jhe reflexo-refraBii. Problem XI11 Horarium anacamptico anaclajiicum con crane i TSI in hifce watches nothing. meet with force, but briefly mo- while crushing them in this place? I will say, further development I will leave it to the reader. I will therefore project the altrolabium when in the shell ABCD, first faces juXta the rules of fupra traditio anaclafticum fimplex on the side of the hemicycle ADC eduCtus should end in the C center of the horizon; af and water until the tip of the gno let it be hidden immediately under the admonition; and I would have a vessel suitable for aftroriomic matters. If, however, you say that the reflected ray is shown to you if you would, the fruit of the gnomon is so apici you will adjust it so that its plane becomes a spring in the plane tical primary; for he poured out water on both sides while the fpecicle is hidden immediately under the water, a ray of the sun falling on the glass reflected
rays below the waters refracted for hours bit not indeed in the quadrant A CD, fed C BD; which will be done, be the quarter of ACD change with the CBD quadrant; where carrying ACD will now reflect Borea, who pri He looked back at me. See figure hot Prembleim XIV. Another paradox of the reflection-reflection of the clock confiruCliOi But who would trust both clocks? refracted and reflected to write in the same shell, so it will work. Let Itylus CD, the apex of which is below the water mediateabditus, they indicate the anaclaphtic hours push will boil in the ADC hemicycle; will remain that the other part of the CBD hemicycle, proana- delineate the camptic anaclaphtic clock give, that you will complete this garment. It is attached gnomoni in S, pundfo immediately fub tip in the vertical plane of the primary, fpeculi particu la; then to the height of this gnomon anaclafticum juxta pragmatics (either gnomically, or mechanically, by offering vation) delivered in the previous ones; ha you will drink the hour prepared, which ta men do not demonftrabitnifi an hour with the vessel be full of water; but a little bit the sun's rays do not rise beneath the water refract the fed, then cutting into a fpeculum he will show the water below for hours. Whence tari- the clock will appear more wonderful, made of leather only the hours of the other show: fi e
let it be full of water, ariaclafticurium hours faithfully the field will go astray. The vessel will go either way S center fpeculis depleas, anaclaflico-ana- He will begin to show the campticum refte, al he will go astray. These things paradoxes in- Itar will be seen as ignorant of the nature of things. If any one, however, at one and the same time and he would trust to show the truth, in both on that side of the hemicycle the same clock line, apex common to both; will be nim the apex of the phytyl and the extremity of the peculi which casts a shadow in the quadrant AC D, aftura refpicientum, anaclaftic hours he will show there; but the center of the fpeculi the reflection of the Sun's ray in the direction of the Bo it will reverberate reflecting the guilt: and these two clocks are of clay days conum ruat? a7nvip, that is, shadowy-bright, five-light-shadow; half of which in part ACD in the shade, the other in the bright, large in Philofophia he spreads a more mysterious secret, of which elsewhere. Pfoblerfia XV Horologium dire Sio- reflexo- refraSlum to collide As a direct clock, if you have it, nothing else is required, no be like the clock in the previous problem after the reflection-refracture, add to the direction, above the felenitic leaf, What the common people call Talcum, he will outline Vvv fflrtis magm Liher VIII. Art Anaclajlica Part IF a horizontal clock with the rest of the cir with the coeds, for the quantity of the plane horizontal shell according to the rules in the first delivered to the book This is assumed to be immediately fu- in front of the water, so that the center of it is a bee cem phtyli rests: then in place of apissign You will adapt some animal to the warning, yel I want cream, whose roftri, as appears in the figure, ex Trembling on the felenitic leaf will show this remove the rasp, but leave the rest partly in the water refract, partially reflected; for it is felenitic leaf, as thin as can be, no diver- it will cause the flatness in refracting. And these things let them talk about the Amaclaftic Art. And so from here let us take some advantage of the soul, con to close the living is with a fruitful traftych. Ample in the anaclajlic cycles the shadow diffuses, Into nothing, while the lymph is being polished, it goes away. Do not despise the vain pomps of this world. Great as they are, [unt vapor, shade, nothing Athanasius Kircher From SOC. JESUS PRESBYTERI GREAT ART LIGHT AND SHADOW GNOMONIC COSMOMETRY, ID IS The fit, size, and quantity of the worldly arts? height of light to be investigated by shading. prafation SMO METRI A M Gnomonic in this place we call that [dentia, qua with the help of certain observations, acphcenomenon, in the quantity of clean bodies we have reached our knowledge of light-shadow reasoning. This book is divided into two parts Ninthly, we propose firstly, the things that are close to us and acceptable
he demonstrates his vivacity with the support of light and shade. Others the cosleftium of the bodies with the earth, the distance between them, and their gf mass, teaches to explore the ratio of light and shade. Both as soon as possible We will go through this book with perfection, so that we need a shadow of how many admirable things the work of the playful nature, give birth, Leclor curio[us, cogno[cat part jP A%S TXJzZMttA' SCIENTIFIC GEOMETRY WHETHER GNOMONIC By this new method the di'flancy, longitudes, and latitudes of things are given the depths, the shadow of the direct light, reflected, refracted, are traced Proluius Theorumena I T)e shadow in Cofmometry (jnomonic utility. OSTQUAM about various things affections get nomic motions netlucumbri divers in on the plains, fuse in running away mouse now it is done, as of the accounts of the shadows, and the same ma with demonstrations of size, for divers of the sun, or of the moon, and of the rest the delivery of the finishing lift let us sit here. Not so much from these Lovers of the truth understand what makes it dumb ration in the quantities of shadows, and the same adredos gnomones, live anywhere bodies normally inhibiting the horizon proportion'; fed, which of them becomes a ufo in the learned to Aftronomio parte, which they appeal; that which flows from us it will be gathered more evidently from them. A great thing shadow, and almost incredible, while with his help not only the movements of the bodies to use in the proceedings it is alive, fed eorun the infallible greatness of bodies size, circumference, width the one from the other, coterafquepartie the quantities of lingulas of this shade we are released with the support of the ray: therefore It is not incongruous that Claudian, in the shadow of Ap we want to fold When Juppiter saw the umhrofos in the mouth of the lalorcs, Rifit, gave such words to the Superiors. Heretofore the mortal progrefiability is pleased I am already playing in the shadows with the art of lalor. Jurafili decretafili and legef of the Poles The work of art is transmitted by light. And now I was rolling the world with bold indujlria Rejoicing, &umbrofaJy der rules from the mind. If DeumtrareBa, yerfa Some call them redas, others ver- right It is a red shadow, as the body is the red-blooded horizon, or the same para- i lelo infifting the plane, in the ipfius fuperficiem Vfl, it projects a plane, or the same equidiftantcm. They call the shadow by which it is cast from some body of the horizontal plane fuperfh cieioquidiftant on the plane of another fuper- I am leaning towards the horizon. Here It is true that the same reason will end di, height at any time to the line of the complement, in which there is a body to perpen diculum, five gnomons -imymaf eredi ad be a shadow Also the end of the same effect of completion at the end of the height O, which the vertical plane of the tubercle is normally inflated I will turn to the shadow of the fire. Why is there almost no business of these um you will find the quantities of bras. Lead the way of the completion of the elevation of the Sun by altitude I divided the gnomon into uncertain parts, produda divide by the end of the return elevation- i n yefiigtt- nis, you will have a redo amount of tio. known Also lead a large gnomon return to the end of the heights of the Sun, divide the smoke by the fine finish thee, and the shadow will come forth in the shadow. Vi- wherefore in the third book I delivered mouse Here the gfiomone shadow is gathered to increase in size, which is done The sun steps raised: or from the same de- JarU i v i r britrumair- step wolf occupying the finisher; to leave the height of the gnomon, the Sun below the steps are congested, the sun rises endlessly so, at the top, no shadow was cast. In addition, the Sun of the tropics things passing through the parts, the shadows of the south to be strengthened by the smallest differences; fed by the same circuit ca oquinodiorum pundaverfante, some the days in the south differ the greatest of them tias conftitui. Conftat also so fub fph? ra- give back to the inhabitants, than among the water and the other of the tropics, the shadows of the mere I sometimes wept in Auftrum
in the North From where The Arabs have manners, as mentioned by Juvenal he mentions, you come to Rome, the shadows are united femperpartim to mourn the astonished fmffe. Unknown to you, the Arabs came into the world, The shadows of the wondrous forest are not to be sniffed at. Where Artis magne Uber X l. The Art of Anaclajllca 'Part I. But when the sun reached the top, their those who live in the torrid zone, the shadow in fe ipfa is as if smoked, whence mi, ideft, pmbmurn flne shadow are called, as ex- through the torrid Zone, living in the Zone confiitmio, temperate in&euH, ideft, Alterumbres; fublphaeravero parallel, because of the circular shadow, what circles are called But to these, as if in common having known the subject, let us refer to other things. 'The shadow of the sun, and the paradox of light. fTUlgo is believed, the light inary two in ea- the same height from the horizon to cast a shadow: for it has been proved is 8t D, at the same height as the Sun but different in quantity to cast shadows: o indeed a minor one greater I will briefly demonstrate the matter. Let them be two circles CBN, SGE from the same center A registered, the horizon CAN, to which the gnomon AD normal Let's set the sun first B, the Moon in G: there is therefore a shadow, while the Sun AE was in B, but the moon was in G, the same height nem in oppofitis yet hemifphxriis ha bent If I say that the two Antoeci things, one of which is the southern shadow of So issue in grad. ss, in which the Sun is apogee, ex- acleobfervarct; and the other in auftralihe- mifphrerio the same noonday shadow Sun in the 6th degree jo (where it is perigee) fuse he would cover the fire; the future, as these the difference in the shadows from the eccentricity They would find the cave of the sun; from where the greatest benefit in aftronomy and much about eccentricity The sun hither and thither the unknown pofTent: which: the thing moved me, that we should know the Fathers in the Kingdom To the inhabitants of Chile and Canada, Antceci, the obfervation of this matter through the letters fe I would like to commend him to Rome: hence for the exact quantity of solar energy forfanfaciliufque, than by making the- orical rules, may be considered. Prolude IV What are the differences between the two shades? let the meter of the Sun end. VTOtandum also in the fuptutanda of the Sun dJN from the center of the earth: height from dimension nor of the shadows so returned, as verla- rum, femper so much of the fcopo calculus the shadow of the circle will be AE: at the Sun's shadow AF, the smaller shadow AE, the Moon: at the same height, and at the same angle C A B, both luminaries are closed. It is clear go propofitum From this it is clear that the great effete between the centers of the world, and those bearing from fi then, the fire of the Sun's supports; the future as at different times at the same height The sun was shining with the greatness of the shadows lest they should be seen to differ between faith. This is clear the sun also cast a shadow at its base a smaller eff than in the perigee. I filled myself in co. If Antceci, five fub living in the same meridian, fub the same latitude, in di verfis, however, hemiffseriis Auffrali, &13o- they are of the real world, who degree, latitude to err, to let go of some femiffis So a dispute seems to occupy Heaven: for the shadows projected into the plane of the fuperficicm horizon not of the center of the Sun, of the fedaltiffimx part, from which ray through the smoke of the gnomon into the plane defend, reveal the elevation: fed where: from the shadows the heights are taken, femper about a quarter of one part, which the whole circle has minors are found But it happened in a different way rents, not from measurement or calculation uncertainty, fed from the rays of the Sun, which not only from the center, fed also from to to the environment, five fuperficie, to use Ecclipfeos in time we experience it, wherever it pours out he says Hence it becomes like the shadow of all bodies redo Sktberic geometry, which rays proceed from the center of the Sun they would be confounded When therefore, tefte Peur- diameter of the sun at its peak I was at the corner of fcrupulorum appa reat, in the opposite place fub angle It happens to fcrupulos, as not folum ra- j
Proluito V. (ftadij from one, or diverging to the parts of the Sun
to produce different parts of the earth, etc parallels Let AE, AL, be the rays from the same Sun I give by V, C, equal gnomons day from the middle of the sunset of the Sun, fed also from the light, and from the lowest places to the earth be carried Circle of altitude of the Sun d horizon Kf, to which the gnomon to the straight A e. St of this again the normal h R leans, cen trum Solis C, the diameter of the same b d I mean e f, central rays C e, C K true shadows Af, A R to determine these rays flowing from the extremity of the diameter of the leaf, dg, A b, shadows Ag, A R, only appa to make rents: for from the angles e g h, b AK, live AVR, are found appearing tan and the altitudes of the Sun. From here on both al the difference in height between the two sharks circ you will share the conferences, the second of which ex the vertices of the man: I mean E, and parallel to be seen; for when VE becomes the smallest part radii AE, so that its whole ratio vanishes and the lines VC, and E L, fint parallel? E X it will be as EV, to A Vi so EL, to CV But God with a higher elevation of the fub you lead, or a lower bearing of EV, AV, it is indefinable, qua- ri adijeias the true height of the center of the Sun pare C V, EL, the difference fenfu quo. he will die I have decided to put everything here as in the lightest of those bodies by which we pray to God to shine through the shadow which cannot be judged; and Idris C, EL become equal, fed parallel. Why are the rays AE, AL, although from the same mention, some reason of this exceff, or flow pure, because of the infinite diftan- should be considered tired. then the parallels will be seen. JC A P U T I Of the quantity of light-shaded things to the reasoning inVeJliganda. Problem The sciatic geometric conftniere, the heights of all the shadowy things in demonfiring the parts of the division. Pragmatism I Sciathericon conjlriiere to the heights of ufu to explore ilANT- on any plane 'exadiffime fitutoo dus li let's get back together cantes AB, CD, of which AB meridian, CD square he is setting up a store that of the two tropics: and the place becomes a gnome nis Ni and beginning with this weight the meridian line is divided into any number of pairs here we divide it into fine sharks. parts of sharks) by means of spoons the center N of the circle is drawn within the tropics. When this is done, take the gnomon tants the size of the half-diameter the punishment of the circle, the division pti, which you set up in the center of N, will be that Sciathericus was finished. Adficriban-. and there are the numbers of the parts in the clay circles of shadows together with the proportions um of arms both to be redone and to be turned. Ufus Sciatheric, F TSus of this Sciatheric is immenftis, and complete the calculations of the whole Geometris is created, therefore I will explain it in parts mouse Therefore, with the bright sun, ; Sciatheric, be of any kind, for instance, of houses, columns, pyramids, ar borum, and the heights of other wild things! trust in the matter; through you, or through another: anyone, the size of the shadows in the note feet, cubits, poles menfura will be explored. At this time, I quickly gave al-; The protections of the Sciatheric things are often for you det. For if a pyramid, a tree, a house, I was tired, or the shadow of any other thing you will find menfurata for example pe while; in the Sciatheric sweep of the gnomon circle he touched the light you will definitely smoke the shade the four-fold of things, as they were received X XX for= drtis Lher IX. the proportion demonstrates, the future, if therefore quadruples, they will come to a height of a mess of things If indeed the shadow of the gnomon will touch the circle this same circle demonstrates the proportion the shadow of all things normally on the horizon ofmom Gnomon. Tarsi zonti infiftients to the height of fub-tri- plain If, therefore, found the shadow of the triple you will be saved, you will have the depth of things I would be happy. But if it is a circle, it will be a shadow fublefquialtera of the heights, fic. about others proceeding in proportion. If fine in the circle he has fallen, the shadow of all of things normally existing on the horizon, it will be equal to the heights, thus feet the shadow raised as many feet in height. To use the verb of the shadow of Ityli the size of the wolf-'
I turn the ducks to the shade, so the shade a Ftyli size fuperats to reda per they hold If, therefore, the shadow falls in cir cul, it will be ipfa to double the heights. Why half found? shadow? will give Sciatheric geometry,
i. If green in the circle will be cut, there will be a shadow of things qua- Drupals to heights: therefore a fourth part the shadows found, namely, will be in height I found: fic about other proportions for multiples, and for you give up Demonstratio easy elt, perfe It is clear. Pragmatics Injlrmientnm Tbotofciometrtcum conjlruere piat any oblong tablet AE, in cu A right middle is normally erected another pa- rallelogramm j whose mean FC, the fissure of the foot becomes a hole is Bring back the scale of the shadows A scale of heights and then the middle line AE, of which AC he demonstrates the reasons of the shadows, CEverb the heights of the Sun. In AC, shadow accounts rum thus defcribes. The whole line AC is divided in this equal parts, or even less things, (suppose which is the number of operations one of us can help, but CF, who fty- lum, feu gnomon refers, let him have ea of the parts into which AE is divided by oo. or for fi by d'ivifio. num punda redas if you draw parallels to the SN, you will have a focus the light of the shadows CE, however, in height you will defcribe this industria. Duke then from the center F along the edge of the quadrant linesFapplied, lines redas in CE line, and would have a height of a pound of the sun, through which; line parallel to the SN the days will give the light of the height of the Sun, so prepare that it will be a total loss then It is here for the Ufiis of the intrument. It is explained in ftrumentum billable priils fitted, obver- just as the Sun, so that the light through the lapfa should strike the middle line CA, fta- tim will offer the cat the lines of shadows tranfver- the account taken by the shadow of BD the incident If, therefore, the shadow falls on stink, line; AC, the shadow is doubled rum will give depth. If in the shadow it will be equal to the heights, proportions. But if you trusted to do it reflecting the height of the Sun's shadow, cover the other side of the sun's rays, as before, so that the light through the slit FC 'f line Let CE hold fast, and shine bright lines thrice minus the quasfitain of the Sun affigiiab. it height even Pragmatism III. Its intrument in the "vertical" plane possessed bring it back; let this fig tree face the Sun! to fall through the gap FC, in the line CA, and they will soon be told of the shadows of Verfa- the reasons which were opposed to the previous ones, such as you see. If the verb uses the other part of the verb CE, 'you are facing the Sun vertically, as per let the light fall on the slit FC on CE, oftendetti- i bi shadow and light in the same line the height of the Sun has changed; Therefore, in the former trust, be the height of the wild beast, vi about which I draw a line in the light of the shadows cet shadow BD If therefore in a pound let the shadows fall, the shadow of the hour zontal dnplata will give the heights of things. If in a pound; the shadow will be found at the height of things. If in pun while it falls, the shadow will be horizontal to the heights of things are fourfold. If I continue um the arm was smaller by parts, and it fell in a pound, it will give half a shadow in height a day And a fic about the camp. Corollary, I From these it shines first, I cast a shadow iimhHrt- in a vertical plank to keep the shade back to have a horizontal fe Mentors of the elevation of the Sun will return to the end the same. And on the contrary, as in the preceding The shadow theory is often That therefore the sun's shadow is in the horizontal. raised by steps, that is a shadow in the vertical which the Sun does when raised degrees; which two mnmbers the femper ends up being equal. Yes the shadow of the Sun degrees, and the shadow degrees, they are equal; that in the vertical to argue Corollary II. From this it is also clear, this intrumen- ufusm as well as fciatheric as to the high the day of the Sun, in all clocks, cir- m with the coelefts of defeating him Xxx z be-. Artu nugiui Liher IX. Qofmom Gnomon. Part L
drink the universal height you will apply to the sun's lips, and then be I can't do the tables, the pundta hours Qor potter III. . L x ratio verb lengths shadow- liver For the truth about this, see the preceding. They can be found on any level. This intrumentum also has admirable-j polished phthylo iz. of the parties, briefly indicate if the plate is arranged in such a way that ver- bus, hours per folio application to be made Bring back the scale of the shadows some kind of darkness intruded around SN as if I turned the hinges, and for the purpose of the plane A scale of heights nose, to any degree propofed It is possible to be promoted, which would be done, on the side of the DN to oppose the quadrant in degrees tur, within which the plate advanced to the steps It will be possible for the trochleola of the propofitos to be strengthened: this for I fit through the edge of the quadrant line unfaithful; from the center F, they would make li I mean the middle of the CE, in the heights of Pundi you have obtained the foliage. Pragmatism IV. The shadow of the thread is all the same. I put some lead wire into it it is divided into if the knots are made of clay, the parts are better to be distinguished; and there will be an injury through done, by the favor of this son so you will complete the theft. At the level of any ho parallel to the Sun's horizon in the drawn thread the same shade in the parts of the same son: that which shall be done, be the thread of the wool of the shadow apply After this, the shadow becomes three pairs I have been held by you, you will say the shadow of each one I shot four times the height of the thing demi fi held, double effe, fi cequalemi fi duplam i fi qua drupal If this wire is in a vertical plane nor if you have applied it wrongly, he will show it to you play the tricks of the shadows. Qor potter I From this it is done, and for what reason also We wish to hunt the heights with the help of the son Let us see, indeed, at what height the Sun is let them recompense the parts of the shadows. Without a map it can also be done with this clothing. Let it be a wire CB, AB the shadow, to which at B the wire is in the plane apply it horizontally, as with the shadow The cornerback of the CBA is completed. Then fi AC, the extreme punda reda conjuxares s will give the angle BAC the height of the Sun which a thread Qor potter II. QEquitur, also, by what reason with the help of this knowledge son at any time of the day If you know the shadow in the table red rum for making clocks you will find the parts of the shadow shown by the pusher in BA find the data in the shadow column the hour will be offered by burning the fur sedated Corollary III. IF the circle is divided into degrees, five in quadrants, of which the molds in$o. divided into equal degrees: fituatus next to the fourfold parts of the world; be The light looming in the center of the circle, I dido faster in the circumference of the circle will show the Sun Azy- mute, five circumferences of the horizon such C Geometry ScUtUrkk CHAPTER I Geometric Catoptrica, fhe of shadow, and reflected light? Mefoptica, five refraSla RINCIPIA, who fu- I am sorry for the poor quality of the snake the reflection of the straps, we put out a tooth, she then the principles go where that Geometris Gnomo no reflexes Why here? I thought it would be futile to repeat it inside So let's get to the point. Problem The heights of the ancients, profunditatefyue of things, to be measured by the mirror by the shadow of the thing I will look at the rum in the Mirrors. Pragmatism I Injlrumentum fi antome trico- Catoptrl- when confluent Let these be the rules of parallelepipeds EC, AB RegulaEC, in sharks par tes is divided, but AB into the same number of squares lessons from the former. Who rules EC in pun- let E be inferred in such a way as to enter it normally perfume deorfumiriftar more expensive in the radio Pragmatism II. jilttudines accejfas radio Catoptricus to measure A Take note of any decrease in height dims mcnfurands diflantiam from Specu lo, which becomes for example yo feet Which fado, you would apply the EC rule in so far as between the mirror F and the rule AB, so many pairs be intercepted, how many feet high between to mend his health, and fpeculum a little I was found before, that is, yo do this therefore press down, or lift up in so far as the berry is concerned I took the light AB inside the crema E, until through
peak A, in fpeculio F the peak of height you see menfurands: parts in staff AB, the intercepts between A and E, will give al see the state of menfurands although ay feet It is demonstrated: since for C, E, the angle of return was from fision, angles AFE j Sc VFC j as you can the angle of incidence is the angle of reflection for sharks, A and V will also be angles sharks, therefore, triangles, sharks, and proportional sides. Therefore, as FE to EA, itaFC, to CV. But the mustache is EE yo. of parts, such as the mustache of the greater triangle ris FC, it's also yo EA has z y therefore CV will have the same amount: therefore AE in part bus EF, will give CV, the height of which Pragmatism III. I will begin with Catoptricus measure the radius diftantia CV, the width of the river menfd- randa, and the fpeculum becomes vertically ere while: take in note menfura fpacium yo. feet I will do this anyway hatur E C, in so far, until between E, E fpeculum yo parts are intercepted, so many namely, that the well-known menfura CFpedes contains Then it is lowered, it is raised that EA rule only until through the peak A, in fecuio F I inherit vertically, a son for the term of menfuration let him appear; parts between A, in tercepts, they will give the difference of CV qusfi as well. Since the triangles FCV and FEA for the two rows C, E, and the two angles in of incident and reflection, fint proportions lia, it will be as FE to EA, so CF to CV j or as EF to FC, so EA to CV. But in FE so many parts are afliimpts, that in FC pe we find: then with the sides of the triangle rum fint proportional, will be in EA X x x in total can be promoted aftronomically. Porrb re gluttony EC; the staff F must be inferred in such a way that for obj edos menfurandas fiti diri gi, for the will of the operator what is it? So it was better to be a duck game with a ball of to which bring the rules tur, he becomes an intruder you have advanced in the art of magnetism. I pour verb commiflurs rules EC, groups, po natur Mirror in the same with rules plane, and I would have an infratratum to which I would like to prepare things to be done. A great book of art. CofmmetfU Gnomon. Part I
as many, qiiot ia CV, namely Di- We therefore find the ftant, which was fa to be killed Pragmatism IV. An unprecedented height for two years let's measure the catoptric radius. Qlt to be explored inaceffa height AB, the lack of CB becomes unbearable; with a polished glass in two parts F, C, that in both ftations the tip A of the object is raised in the mirror, two catoptric triangles will be made DCE, &FIGF, proportional triangles CBA, FAB. Let it be, therefore, that the difference between bearing IF to HG, thus FC to another; for and the height of AB is fixed. Let it go rum, as the difference of IF to HI, so FC no then the interval of ftations to another, for dibit CB diftantia inaceffa was stolen Pragmatism V. From the same place I began the height to be measured with a small It is the height of the OP from the position of D to be stolen from, from which neither retreat nor it may be allowed to approach Erect in the same place D give a fcalum, a fiveperticum, in which you pair you will form the fpeculi in D, A, ob- and fervently in both heights of Opun- When the peaks of the matter are raised in the sky, they will be done catoptric triangles EFD, ABC for sectional triangles DOP, AOL. Let it happen therefore, as FG the difference of ftations (as you will get, if the triangle GDE is like fta- protect the triangle CBA) to FE; so known to AD menlura, five intervals between the first, the fertile fpeculi ftation, to something else; and the height of the OP will come forth, which I have done. To ve- r6 you have a height inacceffe DP, let it be As FE to ED, so OP to PD something Moreover, be the height of the mountain and the tower you would like to know the feparate, so work. Let PE, or CA be to EG, or CB, so pauld before notified menfura DP to a thing PN will come out from the axis of the height of the mountain. Again, as ED to GF, so DP to another r There will come forth NO towers on the mountain polished high give me some Or he is drawn from the whole line PO found shortly before NO, remain bit PN the height of the mountain: or from the whole fubtra hatur NP, will remain NO height tur rice quasfita Pragmatism VI.
The depths of things to be measured by one or two Its height DA is known, its depth is DV, fpeculum in A is perpendicular then extend the rule, and eof until by the end of it B you see a stick in Flatness; then it should be done as part of the AC rules to the parts of the rules CB, so AD to another; and a great abundance will come forth from all things. Moreover, it should not have a height of cm poffis, as if in some mountain you You will be working through two phases in IPFO on the mountain: either fi or not this ipfum the condition of the mountain would permit, by inheritance fcalam, as was said in the preceding the operation would have to be installed, as in the figure pa so Therefore let there be two fpeculi in mountain plain A, D: on both sides You will promote the catoptrics in so far, do nor through the extremity of B, F, in both fta tion he compares with the eye in the fpeculi perpen di- Sciatberic geometry What I do let FS be the difference of the ftations in the rule shining to BC, this is the SE shark BC so AD the interval of two ftations to something else; quantities will appear note to which fi add the interval of ftations AD, the whole VQJnnotefcet; be further AX do not trust, let it be as BC to CA, so to something else; and the AX fummitas mon tis qusfita If, indeed, the feasts were to be held on the mountain they cannot fire will be raised AE, at- that in both of them with the rules from tip B and G while the figure V is reflected in the mirror. This pera&o be done, so that EI is the difference of ftations in fpacio elucidating rules adGF; so EA the interval of ftations to another; it will come out again VX diftantia qusefita. Whosoever therefore these geometers ca- Toptrics paradigms have been more profound searched, he will certainly find none at all Pra&ica geometry can meet the pol le, who is not catoptric to this trigonometry I'm sorry. Demonstrations are the same Profus fint with demonstrations by P. Key book i. Geometry pracftics propo- you become here I help them to leave the problem we live; lest the book should already be filled with other traditions return I only fubjung this, Catoptri- I did not like this menfuration at all in practice it is exaggerated, and also because of the pundti matter uncertain determination of flexions, and also for other circumstances, which Ledor better ipfa will add to the practice. Problem (Measured by the reflected light of the Sun to find things. Fragments I To measure the height of things
perado, fpeculum fupra point in so turn the ftrumentipofit to the Sun, both long reflection of the mirror falls on the transfer fam rule EA: fi would not reach eama drag it out for a while, until it touches the apf cem didts rules This fado number tes, which the rule EF in transfer for this will be the height of the thing qusfits. demo ftration is the same with it as Pragm. Probe II. we have given: for there are two in three gluttony the second which is based on the ray of reflection: am- I will be female, and squeamish, and so on proportional And so he found the beard of one the other sides do not polish side by side. But here we find the base of the greater triangle the feet, and the smaller beak of the same number of degrees we have closed: therefore, neither cathetus nor this will be the smaller one by the ray of reflection; 8c so that the cathetus of the greater one is no this will be, that is to say, the height of the part the bus of the smaller cat. Pragmatism II. To measure the breadth of things by reflected light, altitudes of the Sun and Aymuth. Instrumentum pantdmetri- S--cUm, with the help of whose ray reflection this indu- You will investigate the heights of things. Located offer an intrument in some note he steals the difference of the fpeculi given by the height CV fintque feet for example This "O Xponatur intrumentum in Pragm. II -'Problem. I. the prophesied rallelogram with a small weight F a small particle is placed vertically: gy- and return the intrument together with the fpec until the reflected ray of the sun fell Bring back the scale of the shadows A scale of heights he gives into the fire of the shadows, and the little thing that the ray touches, reasons the shadows of things reached to the heights. Pa on account of the heights of the Sun's reflected light
will show in the other part of the intrument fcal the height of the Sun, be from that side in the weight F is part of the fpeculi, vertical plane ob holding the shore, it was attached If the green pig Great Art Book 2X cofmom Gnomon. ars L
the chin of the center of the circle in four quarters, (of which ninety divided into parts, The middle line is a pound of height The Sun on the edge of the Azimuthal circle. Problem Three anaclajlic rays, with the shadows, then the reflected light, things to be measured; that's why water to measure the heights of things. IF YOU WANT TO DO IT, HOW MUCH IS THE SHADOW OF ANACLAFTI ci to Anacamticum, that is, as much as it becomes the shadow which is refracted by the water on the plane horizontal to the shadow of the plane outside the water; to work thus. Let the intrument be anacla- let the geometrical fticum be in this way: a vessel in the form of a parallelepiped inside a hollow, whose side A1BCS open then it happens: in this vaffe first at the bottom of the line the mean FH is divided into pounds of height Sun anaclaftica, five refrada, what will happen, fi from the G quadrant of the GIF, center by gra dus anaclaftice divifos (which mode fu for lib. par. Probe. we taught) re put in the FH line, you will lead: for they will shoot I will give those lines in pundis, through which a certain geometry, which lines, Sc the anaclaftic Dinem of the Sun, five refracted So I'm going to explore the difference in shade be straightened and refracted, first out of the water mark the shadow in the sunset of the Sun turn the line ED. Then add water to the bowl filled with smoke so that the end of the AGB fponda vafis fintin same as aquafti- finish it: and you will soon see that it is part one bus overshadowed the other, indeed a shadow refracted within the water in the line FG; outside but let the water draw a shadow in the line EO. If, therefore, according to the comparisons of Hujufinodi from the heights of the Sun you refracted a flame break the broken arms, mold what are the ratios and proportions add shadows; in this flash of shadows refrad the heights of all things You will be able to perish in the same way as the prodigal the same in the preceding aid of the intrument We find the skiatheric. If the green weight F the fruit of the fpeculi is often turned hot det in the same line FH, lub aqua luc re I bent the shadow to refract; extra water in I would direct the shadow of the reflected ray will show Qorollamm didis is made, by what reason length, five below water, five in with water at the bottom, with the help of this intrument, deter He can be threatened, and all the quantities of things below the water, with those outside the water He prepares himself for unknown things of this kind they may bring us to notice. Who these things He has thoroughly understood the fundamentals of us I am sure that the door will be opened to a new one the parallel lines give the light of the shadows anaclafticarum Let the same work be done on the side of the fundio prodigal, fufidio quarter GIF I cast the rays of the high Sun cias next to the problem I. Pragm. II. shocked let the shade AGB outside the water on the side EO the height of the sun; beside fuperficies anaclaftice projedte not faeces and return the quantities in any given medium that they may be traced more quickly. The truth is confirmed I end at this point, lest this new one in the ocean of finite discoveries it is not permitted to withdraw the foot. But with genius lo, to continue the web of discoveries ta aquam verd in the middle line FH, alti- anlam prsebuifle fufficiar part PART TWO COSMOMETRY gnomonic LIGHT-SHADOW Of the quantity of worldly bodies, and their from the earth shining through the shadow, 5c light to grow Prelude T)e difficulty of infiituti nojlri. OELESTIUM CORPORATION trace the amount of rum come on! , a matter so difficult, so many different authors i believe in a complicated attack. J wall, to whom the first fubfcri- we should hardly find it. From one liquid on the other hand, fy divers worldly passions reason, put us into great entanglements he received t from the other side, of obfervations so far the lubricity of the fads, and because of the means, from which obervations by they are being acted out, so many deceptions, as the angels more than the work of human ingenuity poffes, almost drive us into delusion
bat For who kills as much as fyftema Ptolemaic from Copernicus, or Tycho- let him trust no one, and let him diverge, inae What kind of planet is the earth? how, in short, it becomes divergent among divers Cofmometric system and method. To these ahfterritt was a little absent, but so lau easy exercise, or slippery I would omit the deceitful profanity. When you on the other hand, I would have done the same thing ftare polle in this Cofmometria gnomon ca, that the Artificers Ptolemy, Copernicus cus, Tycho diverfis fuis hypothcfibus in I relied on aftronomic calculation; who how much the town is divided, but the same the calculus so perfectly agree, that the of the bodies of the three hypocrites thefes fupputati, scarcely to the difference of one yifficdm steps to deceive, found fint. to this that the parallel comparison of things you, while I devote myself more diligently to this business, at last a certain method was met by which ab- in truth quantity of mundane bodies known then with the same certainty as in the calculations knowledge through light and shadow I knew the niris poffe. Of whom I have done this work give Parte, as folly, briefly, easily, 8e It is clearly established. As ver6 let us proceed in a certain order; of prin the chief bodies of the world, Earth, Lu na, Sol, we will first tracftam j of others then in the order of the Planets. That is what they say be done Suppose first, the parallax ali- Sa. than to be given in the fenfibilty of Teizfii's infa- Luris based on the bodies of coeleftia. Vo. trmMmi for the long distance of God the Creator Opt. Max. it was that the image of man was taken from these earthly ones he would raise to that coelefty, and so much repentantly fuse the warnings carefully con would be tempered Here all the machines are clean Nay, distribution tends to create this for us the will of the Lord, by what right shall I let him do the work; and thus the fenfiable effedita the ratio of the terrestrial globe to the globe is as that of the eyes of men of imagination would give way, the diligence of the universe in its entirety of the inhabitants of the surface of the earth, las former refpedtu fuperficiei, or angu He would add to it the diftants, so that he would have a little power it will be due But not even a fic defijt fapien- the world's finest human architect to educate In the same way it would not be a man's pleasure to have his eyes full of tears to know the true meaning of h. the land, he had to run away alive in exile or twice the extent of the earth: so when also here are the fragments of the surface of the Earth from the distant center Y y y tm The great book of art IX Cofmometer Gnomon. Lars I. would vanish to an incredible extent com the height of the planets from the earth ready nor here, too, the poor, and the needy be pacified through the realm of the heavens, let not the human mind penetrate even to these ret, another and much more parallaxeon kind, God is architectus fi forfan in It will be three times the people who will make this system do not offend him with piety, and omit his works the slanders of the thieves, he would like to do, how Amm cr- Reinoldus to the annual mind of Copernicus This is what the world calls parallax. And make it reasonable eenfcrat, nem Tycho from the immobility of the Earth to The mobility of the sun has translated, so that nothing he should have an optician with whom either this or that choose a program. The truth of both with the help of xis we inveftigam Us the heights of life ceffas in leq. Probe And in Can. Probe. We dismiss the curious readers. I suppose the sun to be fertile to threaten, when the day becomes nothing else, the snow por that of the terrestrial globe, than the Sun is certain It is a rare number. With the earth also the body becomes opaque, tangy, xY{i&jvv the light of the Sun is in it, like a barrier finding a reflection of the surrounding air it shines as a brightness, a splendor It is not incongruous that we call it a day. I suppose the third, a fearful group to cast a shadow: for what else? it is night, and the shadow of the earth that surrounds it earth alternately with illumination, fire day is promoted, See what is in the Prolegome we have brought snow from light and shadow than the eclipses of the moon manifest themselves they say: of which we shall speak more fuzzily elsewhere, here we pass with support. I suppose, fourth, this shadow of the earth
for I will conic eff, from which again refiil- tat the earth is round, St Solem the earth ma jore I suppose, fifth, the rays of the Sun in the luper- let the incident of the earth be made, let the parallels be made so as not to be mistaken. Therefore, so fuppofi- tis, now let's get down to the real thing, from the ground like a beard, and the foundation of all things, de- the beginning of the exhibition of the fumpturi So let it be. Problem The shadow of the shadow of the terrified group or to find the light. In these ways the priest Aftronomi quan- He reports that they had invaded the lands of JLtity Ptolemy in his Geography. They are St in other ways, in which most of the artists they love to use; to all of which, we at this point only those who have the same amount of ter- Tse fola shadow poffit to close, demonftra- let us not limit the limits of art to others let us see noftrs tranfilijfle. As the verb rena we will demonstrate: first of um let us first determine certain things, so that things become clearer and more evident. Himself therefore they are bound in any region fima while cities fub the same meridian the importance of which You must have known the thief. To whom this bitis, at the time of the fourth hour of the seventh hour diana me with a balanced gnomon, rit higher, tantb exadtior effected for tieter oblervation) will be offered in both instead, at the same moment of time the serpent game, which a ray of light fell upon the gnomon a tooth with the same makes it to the top: here for the importance of both cities in degree the bus will show up in a few minutes; who steps the first place in the rule of proportions they will obtain fruitful, known among the cities in certain menfura difting, as has been said; and finally they will hold the third place of the whole degrees of terror fecundate into the third, and divide the smoke by first, the fourth number will appear the size of the entire terror group demons With this effort we read Eratopthenes of the earth nae the quantity of the mass; aflurn between the two cities of Syene and Alexandria lub the same meridian in the plane AE You are from the region of Egypt, whose prevalence in ftadijs j known, as before, fumma He had an investigation. To those known I did not return anything else, so I would give the same He would also have a mark on the stairs how Geometry than that by which he found his strength. At the time of the folftitij the city of Syene liib tro At p. m. , the hour of noon is immediately followed timiK, and shadow at the feipfa end of every corner lo with the gnomon fadto is fumigated: this as if he were known, to the same Alexandria a moment of time and a gnomon of the day he raised carefully the angle that I know the mountain, when the shadow was rising to the top, offering: for he was here, that he might be a little thirsty we will demonstrate, between the meridian arc water-filled cities But prepare the matter Let us demonstrate with a digmate. Let it be a circle, fire the globe of the earth, as its center A, DBE, south, the city of Syene in Puntfto E, in B pundto Alexandria; and it becomes a bow BE the number of cities given in ftadias note: there will indeed be a bow in degrees known to this endowment: In pundto B Alexandria at eleven o'clock gnomon BC, the angle C tan will be covered for the shadow of the nation will give rise here in steps That so demon- ftro. For because of ex-fuppofition ra- The day of the sun, because of the excess of the earth from the sun then, and from there, they are put down by a false error ralleli: it is made as a fthylus CB, in the Center A the extended line, let it fall between the two ra gods DC, EG As long as this is done, they will be by x. Elem. Euclid alternate angles DCB, &BAE, equal; therefore it will be tail DB, shark bow BE; I found that fic tus was grad. therefore arc BE no you will be at the same level. It is thrown out, as degrees of arc BE, to the marked distance BD data of cities ftadiorum, thus g degrees of the great meridian circle fphere, to another, the dry earth will come forth: amount in the maximum circle of ft ftadijs belong to one degree of the gods to you Further note the circumference of the earth, easily the same diameter, and then foli- his wealth by the rule of proportion circles to the diameter known: they will be Yes but at the equinoxes the same sacrifice was made
ret, would give the difference of the angles, which each shadow makes the given cities, There was a space between them on the steps. Jfliter, and much indeed exacllon pre- gmatia, the quantity of the Earth by shadows to find collected within fcaphia. For the shadows gathered within the fcaphia a thing the size of the earth is a hill I find the intelligence to detect, of which fu- fe Arazael Aftronomus Arabs, book, which he calls the Menfiira of the World. Today Ptolemy also mentions Eratothenes as well is woven But he was a fchapius, as Ma crobius in fomnium' Scipio explains, a certain bundle the sky curved with ambition hollowed out, below by by delineating the lines the number of hours of the day, which the prominent shadow with the transfi- the Sun has passed away and died: for this it is the duty of the hujufinodi vafis, as so much tem pore from its first extremity to the other and the shadow of each thread runs as much as the sun the half of heaven from the rising in the sky, one It relies on the rapid conversion of the hemispheres; for I will turn the day of the whole heaven and he concludes nodtem. And that's why as much as the sun moves in a circle in this vain to reap the shade; whose men also made by Martianus Capella I read the data; The boat, he says, is from the wasteland fmt, with which the hours of the flyli are in the middle of the bottom proceritas discriminant, qui fiylus gno- it is called mon. See Pliny's book Chapter the book of Vitruvius Chapter Hujufinodi fcaphia see fupra in noftra Clock- graphia figurata, in Aftronomia ana- country part problem. Of these you there, with the help of the Phaphii, Eratophthenes through Um He thus found the quantity. Supposedly primd, Cleomede tefte, the rays of the Sun from one, or to different parts of the Sun The parts of the sun produced, indeed parallel, I quote the words of Cleomedes: axwA 'Xiw fictqxjgpY prt&iv mi dhia pe? fnt Pstfafaas 3vat. Each one, and us Jufion y. we demonstrated Let it be Sun trum A, the place on earth to which the Sun normally fall, Y: then AY is continued in cen trum E of the earth; then the place to which Sol to fall obliquely, becomes where in Scaphius TID through O, the top of the gnomon falls ra day AOinV, or the shadow becomes: great I give Already with AV, AEradij juxta prolu- fione, fint pa rallied will it happen gulus VOI, al third IEY ae quality, and that's why ri in fcha- son, &YIin of the earth the like there How many are you? there are degrees of rit shadow in ipfo fchaphio as many as that of degrees there will be an interval the light of places YI. Let it be, therefore, as Erathofthenes let us retain the example, Syene in Y, to whom The sun Acmsos descends on the day of folftii; Alexandria Yyy z verd jfrtis great Lite? Qojmom. Gnomon, (Part The verb occurs in where at the same moment ipfo me is marked ridie, becomes the term umbrasm pun- dto the arched shadow is actually detected in fcaphius of yj degrees, as Gleomedes af take it GrtVTlHOTQV V oirttlx KVX. XX there will also be as many degrees of peripbefia IV. Alexandrian: Whence already given the journey in three times a year, yooo. environment to his lands, ut. fufra ftadiorum it will be concluded. Note here, however, that any error fcis obrepfifle, whom I desire, modern The Lyncei Aftronomi discovered: qubd that is to say, they had no snow centers the solar radiation problem, the marginal ra dijs, as if there was little or no error im those who carry them, those who neglect them; when, however, which oftendi mouse, because of the apparent semidiameter of the Sun that is min. do (for so much, fumma applied with care, we find it as greatly exceed, as deservedly this one I think the caufamfuifle is so large in breadth even of the most famous cities, such as Rome Alexandria, St. determining the difference of the state; ex oraiftxone for minut. lec. that they must either be removed, or added to the cen the beam of the Sun should be fixed, when then it will import, known by the leaves of Aftronomi it is Erathofthenes, Pof when Pompey Ma came to hear him Gnus adiret, Imperij fafces fubmifit) af Rhode and Alexandria fumpis the same the cities in the south, and their abundance:
then the trees of Canopus, which in height! ua meridian of Rhodis ftrings the hourzont, Alexander as verb grad. minutes. in it is his greatest elevation; for this dif bearing compared to the weight of the difference At last we found the state of the earthly south we read A similar account of Alammon King of the Arabs, as Abulfeda Geo- I read the Arabic script, he held. Here you can on the quay of Geometris near the return of the sea Red returns in the feptentrion tending in in the plains of Pingar, he discovered, with the same fub proceeding one degree from the sky fti reweight miles f. lands am miles. Another futility Maurolycus found an ingenious plan, who, when the approach is made, will be quoted from Clavio, alijfque Aftronomis, there Ledto- We have dismissed the matter. We know the shadows let's go back Problem The greatness of Athmofphdr&, that is, the greatest part of the air, as soon as it is illuminated by the Sun can, from the earth reflected by the light pRasfuppono primd from common Aftro With the vexation of the anomalous, the crepuscule to begin with, five which is the same, Athmofphe- fidonium that Philophophus (whose doors: ram first to be illuminated by the Sun degree. enter p limit the horizon to Second, the sun as the greater earth more than half illuminate his part indeed, beyond level m. as often as desired is given these wolves thus through the shadow five bright sun ra rake the earth for a long time tem, height take thee thmofphasras down hends Let it be the earth, let it be that center H, thmofphseras circle MXN: taken in pun- dio F is a tangent line QR, which will be the horizon phyficus, figuti OP Aftronomi horizon because When the verb Ath mofphasra primb him let the sun begin to threaten steps below I'm going to climb the mountain? it becomes PD, an arc of degrees beyond to form a better demonstration and D becomes the center of the Sun, from which in the center of the earth H, draw a line, as ex the weight of the shadow C is drawn in V, which where the phytic horizon QR, makes Athmofphaera becomes pious. Duda therefore ex let the center of H be drawn into K, and a triangle will be formed FHK, in which FH is the half-diameter It is known from the ground. He retorted so let's wrap up the FK side that will happen, We would have launched the FHK bow before. Ar but the cus should be so invigorated. First ar because FG is a quadrant of degrees; bow but GT, from the wolf of the degree. the whole therefore there is an arc of degrees from which it is made demas arcus Tl, (which we said effe gra two min. e6 which becomes half part of the world illuminated by the Sun) remains arc FI, degrees min. whose god the middle arc is grad. min. who is angle FHI: angle therefore, which He was known. According to this arch a triangle is formed, the side of which is FH semidiameter of the earth in miles, HK ve rri Athmofphaerae from the center of the earth in the same parts, it will be known. So if HK Earth's semidiameter equal to abHKfub- draw, it will remain LK Athmofphaerae di- ftantiaafuperficie terree, videlicet fe I have achieved a milestone. So the height we find the copper of Athmofphaeras, which it had to be done. In another way through the end. Flat, as the end of all HF, to the tangent arc grad, min. FK, itafemidia a meter of land known as HF to another; it will come out the line FK, which is the difference from the weight of the eye, and to the shadow of the pound of slaughter terro, lucis folaris, five Athmofpho- ro. Let it be done again, as the end of the completion of art cus grad. min. to the whole thread, yes half-diameter terro known to another; come out bit line HK, from which the fubduda femidiame three times I strike HF, leave LK, height Athmophoro True, to be more precise, this business from let us walk, no longer the center of the Sun nans, fed limit of leaf diameter fta- He must be protected, in which from Alazenus and others We leave it to the commentators. When For from the center of the Sun I eat three times the branch is broken, and continued to the phytic reaches the horizon; then for the first time The beginning of the dew is not able, it is already led tranfme is neceftum, when part of Athmo it is already white, and it becomes illuftrata, quate let the light of the Sun be diffused on the far side, as in the profusion of this fiber is done.
Sciatberka geometry. And so I take away the center of the sun at the beginning grad. the fub is lowered to the horizon, when it is from the limbo fupremo id. minut, fublri the account of the greater calculus due to the half-day of the sun tem inftitni, qui fub horizon dum rates at minutes. is depressed Then there is no reason for it to be considered, because it is further hemiphoric from the Sun ilfutre when he does not report, with what reference it is raked, which was first illuminated at the pound It belongs to Athmophoros: to which all things are here we decided to put it as a precaution. Note, however, in this place, Athmofphorum for the varied nature of the regions, and the difpofiti- lest, the difference of height might be different with the fire extinguisher, as you can with the vapors too much rarefied, etfi will pour out the greater fphoram, yet when they reached the heights, you were nearer to approach the nature of pure air vapors he will not be blind, and therefore of illumination, and those less capable of refraction: cold fub but the Zona condenses the vapors much more julmodt illuminations, retractions verfl$mun- more capable indeed: whence the faith was puffs, five auroro principle, diver let the sun grow stronger below the horizon the flow Wherefore they would be flattered divers of different latitudes you, as you can fub the torrid zone, temperate and cold, and the beginning of dawns in lin as a fic about the border, and at the beginning the dawn: something certain adftrui poffit For that of the dawn the common beginning of almost all Aftronos according to moral opinion, the sun is below the horizon x let it be confounded by steps, that is, So The issue does not occur in areas of the temperate zone I would hardly believe it. As, indeed, from the beginning of gold rae fub fphaera reda or parallel, the reasons a little before indicated, manifeftd they seem to be opposed, because they have seen so much cet refradion fub didis differen plages I said to use fed, all this exadiffi- offer me, that the truth may be known thence they would be wasted. Corollary. It is very clear by what reason the engine con- Mach}m the son of the Sun and the Earth, together with the difthan those on both sides, which; a gentle dawn everywhere let him indicate: let it be ABC, the globe of the Sun pa- I was a parallelogram DCHI, so I enter H should be attached, so that it revolves freely around the earth ri poffetj line tangent VC, in ho on the phytic horizon bound by a lelogram, infallibly demon- it would break the beginning of the dawn. But about these others bi fufius, Why are they only indicaffe fufui let him go Yyy For, Yyy Jfrtis magic Book IX, Cofnirn. Gnomon. (Part I. Problem On what account are the clouds, or the beams? and other me you are the figures of the ores, in the air, light-shadow able to be traced by reasoning. As the clouds diverge from the shore, they diverge also their account should be stolen degree to the line minut. thus LF, on foot while to another DL i prodibitDL, on the foot bus which are attached to DL lines Say again, as linen re&us grad. minutes to the thread of completion grad. minute thus DF feet to another DA will come out, covered with clouds and high on the earth he can Or rather the clouds do. If, however, the latitude of the cloud AB it leans towards the top, or inclines from the top: no the more vertical it is, the more I deny it improved meteorometric a stolen thief; how much indeed from the top I am moved, so much is his unconfident reason, that fuses the madmode of optics, more ma- and he will waver. Let therefore the first cloud be AIBK, calm I am covered by time, not by form so great, led average by others bring as many means as possible they would like to meet: and his shadow lit projected a level plain. In this way his strength was removed from the earth you can Let there be two affections of this business for you. who in the last limits of the shadow of LN let them receive you in the middle in F: but you with the same radius polymeter from F pundto um in the middle of AB the breadth of the cloud doubly carefully, noting the steps, live angu the light, which the lively lines with the ends in the cloud, the parties make AB, which becomes the word thank you the degrees of menfurterquelati the shade of ED, some note which becomes feet: let them be drawn from the boundaries AB the clouds in the produdtam LM umbrs dia
meter, in the pile of normal lines AD, BE, ex iifliem AB, pumStis nubecu- At the ends, in the boundaries of L N, Umbrs the wings of the li nes AL, BN: who with the normal ones AD, BE, an angle let them intercept tion of the Sun: du the cat is also li nea EF: confti- are protected by three different corner, which with proportional fint, they will be as DAF, addDAL, so you have a mustache DF, ad DL But the angles triangle ALF no they are yours, A indeed 4th degree F completed three times, side LN known as feet also known as the angle of the triangle ADL is: therefore the sides of both triangles they will be known. If, therefore, it be done, that the end be reduced res, add twice to the line ha what will you drink? Cafrn II. But if the clouds were farther from the top, you will work like this: Let the vertex be the line VC, cloud AB, sun in E, shadow of cloud C, ray lucumbris EBC: so the height of the cloud in you will fly Let there be two bearers, one in C, the other in G, at any interval: either that at one and the same time B the end of the shadow border, carefully which are noted in the Geometrical Intrument in any part, five degrees in each ftatione ablciffi The space between G C, you will exademenfuras: lusG, B, do. GC fpacium pe while: a line of parallel to GB is drawn, 8c 1IK is parallel to AC. Then let it be, as IN, dif bearing tangential obfervations rum to NK, so GC, note menlura to CD: and CD will come forth, that is to say C from the perpendicular BD from the cloud to the ground doubt After this, let it be done again, as the end all to IK, I give a tangent. degree so CD, found a little earlier in the note menfura desiring to DB: therefore DB will come forth, qusfita the height of the cloud. All this art You'll learn about different types of clouds. Problem Trabis, noclurno at the best time, coe lo fiubtenfie to measure the height. This division of the two in di- if you turn places, you will have a certain beam fer= Sciathert's geometry. femtium fubfidio then parallax (which no doubt it will be huge (help, fpacio in times, with the menfurato, very easily judged those, which we have said to be parallax, in high you will reach the health beam. The matter further I do not declare, since the method of operation has been learned innotefcat
Problem V. The heights of the mountains through the sky oh- trace the fervation. A mountain of great height surrounds them nes, to fill the middle region of the air let them far exceed, and so much their yoke to the middle region of the air skin fcopules protruding from the sea to his and the rays of the Sun long before let the rising appear at their peak; see the mouse already, by what reason from the information of the light, which before the sun rises on the horizon, in the summits of the mountains appear far ahead it was at the same height of the mountain we can come That we should begin; No so much higher the mountain how much light before the common spring the hills of the mountain are dawning faster. For I live the arc between the pandus, in which the sun first some mountain begins to light up, ho rizontis pundu interiedoj not in height dinis folum montis, fed phyfici hori You can reach the knowledge of the diameter of the zont river with a triangular mustache, rather than a line luminofa with the top of the mountain makes nothing it becomes something else than the half-diameter of the horizon phyfis But he lived at the height of the mountain through the first illumination next to Probi II. there will also be a mustache if the triangle in parts of the axis of the world, feucolledtecat here It is true that this matter is somewhat it will be sold out; The mountain is more famous height of Brium, near Hiftoricum We will try to test the faith. But first Indeed, the fat passage of the famous lib. i. Meteorologist Arift. about the height of the mountain Caucafi, of which there is scarcely a place, which is well ex Let the authors understand: we are genuine its interpretation from the amended Vati cana libraries with codes, thus rendered fAtyteov oyc ico viti Stpnvho m C 4f. di u'4yf s V&l W 7-ay 'm (Ty V #X48vtov in Ji whence ajuv. it dx, vyivx f I &td' twV tauip&c: it is this: Caucafus verb mountain eji, of those who ad They guard the rising of the sun, with multitudes follow: , and the greatest in height. Height and from this I was able to collect the argument. For
and from that place which they call the deep of the Pontus then from here, who fu they drink, it is seen. Pmterea fummee its parts rnftu from the dawn of the morning I say, and I vejperi to the leaves are illuminated by rays on each side with rice Here is the report of Ariftotel with the help of the rule of Athmofphaera, to trace the quantity of five crepuscules Probe II. prophecies, as idem ya We determined the number of miles, by fi Nuum Dodrina, the height of the mountain we will find out about the miles: what things are all is ridiculous, and cannot be done for any reason teft: Since there is scarcely a mountain in the whole world it is thus far discovered, whose; diametrical height to or y. extend a mile Hence it is very clear, or Ariftotei in relation to the deception of others, or anything for any dixiffe In any case, you will interpret this place, the height of the fiemper the mountain of the Caucafi exceeds miles We will see. Whence the price of fo ret, in the city of Caffas, in the ipfo rftlimo Tauri cas Cherfonefi fita, from which Caucafimi Ari- ftoteles in this place he wants to be offended, pe to make a stream of this thing: and I wonder in a place so frequented by Europeans, from Phi- Lofophis has no experience of this matter yet effe fadam: What would be done, of the genuine by the interpretation of this place, finally others what will he choose for a certain fate. So this place as if corrupted by a false relation terunes, let us compare ourselves to another ma gis calculus correpondent. Athos, the mountain of Atitus it is Macedonia, Xerxes perfoffionecele- berrimus, from Lemnus, the inflow of the Aegean sea having suffered a thousand paffus, here in Solfti- that, Plinius, give it to the forum of the city Lemni, which is called Myrrhine the shadow of the inhabitants is brought to be shot a bronze calf, as if the shadows were remembered term, collocaffe are focused; whose mentions Plutarch in his book on Maculi Monday-. In Lemnos, he says, neither indeed It was a disgrace, but it was a jamb to everyone we have heard the fsepd of the bus fermons, A3w? 7ttopA @ob(: Atbos covers the sides Bucula Lemnia. For the shadow of the mountain is the term nature is almost a kind of brass tube, I would expose the fish to the sea for no less than ftadijs Plutarch And the height of that that of this mountain may easily be taken, ii the height of the Sun should be determined, while Athos the shadow strikes the hole. And indeed certain eft, in the middle of the folftitij, five asftivi, live hy children, by no means cast this shadow poffe When the summit of Mount Athi near Lemnus Eurozephyrus becomes and the brevity of the shadows, how Solfub grad. (under which Lemnus, We place Athus) in the foiftitial noon about degrees He makes it manifest they are opposed j For it will be the height of the mountain exceffiva, profus incredible j im6 exceeding all the mountains of the world ergd neceffario in the velpertine time, what Jbfa Magna Book IX- where the Sun is in the 2nd, 3rd or 4th degree off the horizon tem stands out, this shadow Lemnia con will do Let Mvrrhina C, therefore, be Mount Athos AB porrb u the shadow of the mountain reaches ad forum C, let us place the Sun around Occa fhm, for the sun is inclined to swell, greater than ca they come from the mountains of the forest. Let it be diftant BC fathoms, five feet
IVTHOS from the geographical relation, which in degrees refiltered will give grad. min. in peri-! the wildness of the greatest circle; therefore let us rejoice Sun grad. elevated; let it be done to the end tus adBC ftadia, five feet, thus tangent grad. to something else; will be given al the height of the mountain is ft. If the verb two degrees The sun rises above the horizon according to the previous rule mon you will find that they have ftadia. Since the length of the shadow, five diftantia of Myrrhine of the city from Athos, from a historical report con he cries, nothing else would be needed at height the mountain to be traced, the corner of the snow brae to C, which the height of the Sun manifests. If, therefore, someone in Lemnos is taking shade in the corner of the "cident" A degree should be considered at the end of any business. It has all been dated to BC ftadia, the distance between Athos and Lemnos, so tan the angle of the incident shadows to another the fourth term will give the height of the neceffariQ a dine of the mountain. This dress
to trace the heights of all the mountains Mtudo polish Xenagoras Olym pi the height of the mountain accurately by um I will measure the beam of the vertices to ftadio rum, feet of the Greeks fedepre Hendiffe boasts. By this art Picus in Ca- narijs Infulis grad. alive, high He was found to have a disease of it is which the height of the fane is too great, thus surpassing all other mountains in height it seems that But this is about the height of the mountains let them not be hasty; who are more confident ret, he adeati neum, where the mountains are high, the sea We search the depths from above. Corollary. It is clear from these things that the mountain range was taken in height, too ofmm. Gnomon. L the fe, also of those who sail in the sea, from another on which mountain the diffusion, then the refraction difference, as the summit of a mountain from one lo co, about Ortum, Occafu fpedatus imports What a huge notice I made bring comforts, none of them who in the preceding book anaclaftica arcana al Tifts penetrated, I think on the side. Problem VI. How much part of the terrestrial globe is that Sun? to threaten, to be alarmed Before the size of the body and their shadows let us pass the blows, here the first of the quan in the degree of fuperficia h a greater lustrous body we will deliver the enlightened ones. For it is supposed htec fcienti the shadow of the art of discovery rum, whose bodies were illuminated by fe proij they are When then the sun becomes the greater earth, near the rules of the shadows of Necefario on earth less than half a fphaera il will light up But what a great deal of outrage this is, it is to be found in the fruitfulness of life. Let the group be So lis A, land I. Sc EFC shadow three times rena, the sun's rays BC, DC, quan the title of the earth pundisEF, ul through the middle of NM enlightened Which it is said how much it becomes that arch NE or MF, beyond whom the Sun thrice ram fe minor illuminates I mean therefore the bow light so many grains two, or mi effete how many of them is the arc of the angle C, whom the shadow conflicted; that is I took out the bow beyond which the sun half three times ram illuminates equal to with the help of C, which uae line um they finish the bram they are tired and this is true Efele, not on the phone Luris only il lumination, fed in each of the other two bus bodies g of which one is the other Geometry illuminates, demonftrd Let it be a square light MNEF, as in the above fig. it appears from where the contact and they are led from the 1st center to the punda contadus, lines IE, IF: since therefore a square has four corners juxta elem. He such as four return: and the angles to F, E by ele Eucl. they will redefine, they will be game EIF, together with the angle C, such two return bus, live angle FIC, together with an gul half the shadows of ECI, such as one thing do: will therefore be the angle EIC, together with ECI's half-angle shadow, like one -redo, that is, let the angle ECI be degrees. you will be subdued, the corner of Neceffarib will be left NIF, such as the angle of ECI, whose arc NF is the chief of the enlightened world beyond me diet: fed this bow is like a bow of the angle of the ECI, which should be described as in tervallo IN Therefore NF is the arc beyond half the sun illuminates the earth, such as it is in the corner of ECI, the shadow of the earth, which in ter ra found by the Artificers about gra two beyond half of the that is RE io4. grad. Therefore double this number, you will have an ERF bow. grad. whom give let the arc of illumination shine upon the earth body defined by light: from which number lubdudus, will leave excefliun in the earth, by which the sun is beyond the middle of the earth illuminates This courage is given to anyone with two bodies, you will find how much the tin lighting the other, beyond the middle tem, or below the half, Qorollamm I From here it is done first, whenever they light up another phphric body greater is the illuminated body, the angle umbr necefiario to give a greater angle less than half a of illumination ris, as is evident from the prodigal demonstration. Corollary II- Whenever that phphric body threatened, enlightened as it is, il illumination of the necefiario hemifphric would be, that is the rays terminating the shadow
they will go to the extremes; diameter, and finish three lines touching uua with shadow pa- rellem conftituent shadowy cylinder m infinite running out, which they call islands III IF the green body was less illuminating when the body is enlightened, the heart will be enlightened pus greater than half of the neck Sciatherkd as great as the angle of the br of the smaller body, be of the greater one be born I explain the matter. Let A be the larger body the dark, which is illuminated; I my body enlightening nut: they are led out of the pund F line touching the ball A in the penalty area B, D not with parallel lel not fint, nor cefiario in C they will come together I mean it is group A from the minor group I just below me diet to be enlightened, when is the angle C such as the corners BAV, D A Y" Ra experience you are very clear tet, for it is in- turn the system over no. If so The sun would be the earth Earth Sun; he let the earth shine The sun is below me diet YV so tired how much is throat C, to which ae such as Guli VAB, YAD, who bows, when it becomes it will be a bow enlightenment DXB, quality minutes of arc but the shadow DSB will be greater arc YD, that is minut. If therefore ad give it to degrees fus grad. which I became from the whole circle fubtrahas, will be left bow degree ar the cause of enlightenment. So you see how beautifully the light meets the shadow. Corollary. IV. From this it is clear also, that the body is less il The greater the light, the greater the shadow ris the bow would be as much as there would be a luminous arc in a smaller body, be enlightened by the greater; on the other hand then in the larger body the bow would be illutra- tion, how large would be the shadowy arc in in a smaller body, it should be illuminated by a larger one. What a reason for anyone to crack more deeply tus, the diftances, and the quantities whereof none of the physical bodies will usually find a business. Z z z Eru Jfrtis Magna Book IX. Q) fmom. Gnomon. (Part II. Problem VIX Craffttiet ccdorum, and dlfiantamque from the earth to spend the fruitful teaching of Ptolemy. Therefore, I accept what Ptolemy proves From the Conftitution of the heavens, uniufcu- and he divided the heavens into three spheres the first, and the last fruitful thing, etc center cos, homocentrics fecund what; eccentric medium from which the epicycle revolves (is eftfo- a certain group of shores in which the planet im is conceived to sink. This heaven is thus con- The moon while in the Virgin, degree, It is more difficult for us to explain it here and also to avoid foolishness, which comes from the heart the relation of motions and numbers he would cry; and also because we are hastening to other things; little we have reached here; preferably with the same one Effe poffint at Ptole available to anyone the Maeus, or the Regiomontanus, who collected them therefore, as Ptolemy's ffib- I will attack the last thing I have found: let them be led from the center of the earth D, the following fig. to fmgula of the waning Moon, rede places DX, DB, DC and through the center of the epicycle LXT, turn right let the reins EG, CB, BF be drawn. From these fic the greatest circle of the former poles was formed; From there we will proceed to investigate for to the sequidiftant is to be divided into two parts, let him af-1 portion red DL, to red quam I am looking for From the dodrina of triangles we have, in rectilinear triangles, in which it is known the proportion of the angles, also for a portion of the sides; that which. fuse teaches P. Clavius in lib. of rectilinear triangles I was with Thodophius. Why with a note the ratio of these angles becomes us who appear in this figure; be here indeed in the triangle DFB, reduce the angle FDB He is deceived by the eclipse of the sun external angle AFA, which by pri mi is equal to the two internals, and oppofi- tis, also known as the arc AB known by the Aftronomic calculus: qua actually that angle forward BFD, which the remainder will be known as FBD. Yes then by the propofition of triangles I am sorry Keys, known to all the angles of the triangle DFB, will be known as the ratio why is it known among the fes of the same sides: the ratio of the side DF to the side FB. The same just in the red triangle FDC, angle game D, known by obervation eclipse,
external throat AFC, inflating bow through the heel I know ABC also known as go (as a little an We were talking about you another triangle) also internal DEC, DCF, no they will be yours. Note therefore it will be for side portion DF to the side of FCj from the note for part of the side DF, to the side he faces The third is effected in C, also on the part of FC, and FB is then recognized as a proportion of the north, in which he failed half, of the sides FQ, between fe Porrd in tnan-
he will offer to those who can see his feet from that side, by which he was a rich man, whom the figure of the dead man represents ABC, in which three circles appear, the middle indeed, completely eccentric, who in fe The cycle includes, namely, the remaining AMOP s a fertile quid eccentric, as ABCL, FDEP Let then this Heaven be Lun: pro- It is desirable for us to increase the diameter iftum AC, from which we can easily know then the entire lunar circuit ABC. Ad what a thing to know, covertly the price it is to be seen with what admirable artifice the owl is made Ptolemseus: for he planted a plum for portion of the semidiameter of the epicycle to di- ftantiam, which is from the center of the earth: to the cen trum epicycle; this is in circle ABC whom we will, he will represent us Let the proportion of the line IA be divided three epicycles, to the eleventh row, the diftantia a at the center of the earth: X, at the center of the epicycle I, on this account. Alexander offered three Lunar eclipses, which: taking into account mo your fic difpofit of the moon, and of the epicycle they were, as the first fruit in a fruitful fig rae, in which the whole Moon failed, expiring it Sc. Gr. The second effect is in B, from the side of the north, in which the half of the moon failed long, and more than a third of its diameter, while Aries degree z? in the zodiac guldBFC, given the proportion of the two la then BF, FC, the angle of the continents BFC, by the tail; it is also known by he proposes triangle return Keys. Pro- the portion of the third side BC, and the proportion of the left whose angles and so much so that becomes the angle BFC, it will also be known as throat FBC, and will therefore be known as an arch EC, known as the BBC angle. Already once the arc BCF is known, the arc is also known cus FA, the completion of the circle ABFj and from the arcs known FA, FB unknown Sciatberka geometry. trum of the epicycle in the nearer third B, center earth D, center eecentricf C, given the line DE, which touches the epicycle in pundto E, Sc we will have the straight line EB: fic eccentricity DC Angle EDB, no tus is from obfervation, for the degree is used min. and the angle E is right by the third, because the line DE is an epicycle it touches the pundt, from which we fly guided EB returned, the hemidiameter of the epicyle therefore will be known the proportion of the return EB, to the return BD, in the triangle EBD, fed the ratio re- cet the proportion of the chords FA, to the chor-! dta EB, the semidiameter of the epicycle known before dam EB, and of these chords to the half of the the meter of the epicycle, as we have from the tradition! trum the earth, and the center of the epicycle: therefore of fines. From this we shall know that the right proportion BD, ad, will also be known that we complain; for the proportion was known to be the return of DA, and the return of BD, of the parts of the side DF, to the side FB, now the ratio is more min. while the return DA the angle of FB to the angle of FA, also known: igi-i was therefore, the semidiameter of this circle ur proportion returned DF, to return AFB, SCA, CB, divide the waters into parts FA, it will be known; fed redtangulum, which becomes j they see a number fused from parts from the return of DF, FA, it is watery to him, which becomes do. with some additions; the smallest: whence ex retta DM, ME, ex fphaericis Theodofij. both GA and CB will contain them Therefore, the proportion of the returned parts is also known to be one and min. But DM, to the return of MX, the diameter of the epic was previously known, the return of BD, completed cli: to whom DM was returned, fi addires redtam' parts more min. two down the semidiameter of the epicycle already known The proportion of the return of AI is known, to the point dtam LE, with which he was troubled. And he found To the Ptolemies, proportion returned ad 1A, the parts of a. d parts y a little more Why in this another type of the lunar disk will be known in proportion
between the center of Earth X and the center of Epicy cli I j to return IA, the hemidiameter of epi cycles Now we have invented a man of genius, another matter no less admirable than knowledge It is a very enjoyable, gripping fic. investigate therefore, having returned he will collect as many parts as flipper to match the number of matches and a little more, this is, par of ten and nineteen minutes. So far he knew according to the Ptolemies tion both of eccentricity and diame three epicycles, to the extent of which there is a cent tro land, to the center of the epicycle: the rest it was to him that the size of these parts he would certainly propose some menfura. Here I, with Pliny, marveling at this I will exclaim, "Wonderful. by which the dishonesty of the human heart proceeds, I was invited by some little girl how great the eccentricity of the world is, the interpreter of Heaven dares not to divine here the epicycle of rent J is this, how much does the moon fly, fed, by the same ratio of the distance, which is from the center of the earth X, to and of the rest of the planets to the earth fpa- the center of the eccentric orbs H, pri- tia ma fig. in this way: twisted with the intrument of the places of trust, so admirably understood invetgiant Aftronomi) he found while burning. Let us proceed, if you please, to his de- show He visited the moon the diversity in which he suffered of the wire, this is when through the quarter, and I was from the height of the epicycle, and the sun shines. De- They therefore struck this fruitful thing from the center land D, circle PII, which reprevents no I will make the earth twice; KL, who turned through cem heads, and center Moon L, MNO, through the firmament, who took the turn rat of the greatest circle: both of the two lines of DM, ra, the place mteried between truth and vi- through the center of the Moon LHO, DN, will be the place of the rope of the moon, which is called by the geometers the true place of the moon N, alive. O: and known folet afpedtus diverfitas, to contain gr. will be the arc MN, by Aftronomi's more min. This is done by the cen-, with, &MO, by obfemti. onem; from da- z tis trum of the epicycle in the next third Jff Jrtis Magna Liky IX- Qofmmi. Gnomon. (Part I. this greatest mass of the earth, do not give co femel or twice, fed centiesfexagies fep- But they believe in reason while it is Problem Otherwise, the distance of k Earth will be affected by e through the shadow d ejufqueparallaxitt. git circle b DYZX, land to s fenfibi-
tis bows MN, MNO; fic knowledge mouse proportion vine DL, to vine DH, this is always the smallest thing The moons from the earth are half a meter long catch Let this triangle be trusted HLD in it the angle HDL is known for the well-known arc MN, to which it is pointed: the ancients the MHO angle is also known as the given arc MO, therefore it will also be known whether gulus intrinfecus HLD, in a triangle DHL, for the two internal corners of HDL, HLD, are equal to exerno oppo on the shore by of the first: therefore he was known to us lit external angle MHL, other inter nus HDL, will also be known as the rest between the HLD nut, which is known as the HDL angle, The angle of the shark is known as MHL. Be known therefore will be the angles HLD, Sc HDL, in the triangle if I do DHL; therefore it will also be known as a snake DHL game, the complement of the two returns rum But from the doctrine of triangles, co known as the ratio of the angles there is the proportion of the sides: therefore it will be known in triangle DHL, the ratio of the side LD, on the side of DH, which was sought. found out that, rebtam LD, leu minima diftan then the moon from the earth, to contain three parts more than tenths of one part male dumDH, the land of the fire half-diameter is one of those parts is defined; ideoquefemi diameter of the concave half of the lunar disk tros lands is completed three am more than one half-diameter lands. Hence the result is easier, and with less effort then to the craftiness of the lunar heaven, the circle which, as well as to the rest of the Planets or bes to forgive, progress is Ptole- according to the rules of proportion reducing to the environment, and reducing Mathematicians don't give fphasras, prasfer-
the light of the mathematician Archimedes: which I, in order not to be too long, will gladly omit The whole cx-to; but in the last place of Firmament lumsoin to be added, collected from the propofit reason Let the light, which is so great, let it enter steiu pu- polar ftcllas orbit, than that. diurno the motion of light includes the whole of the Sun's Heaven bit, clothed, ret, and not tightly enclosed; because the fus fenfum seems to be fleeing: for who it can be done like a polar fleece, which a few some degrees from the pole, the circle de- It rained so great that its surroundings were hearty the body of wax, the smallest part of which is the Sun, lis AP, and the horizon RO becomes phyphic, fi ve fenfibilis, XY aftronomicus, five in- fanfiable; And the verb becomes known in parts half-diameter lands in mil- with curls; XY plane; CA verb gnomon rebbus At the time, therefore, when the Moon It is opposed to the diameter of the Sun, which we have
A lunar eclipse takes place, and the moon will be removed from it meridian DY ex- very balanced CAV angle shadows, which ray of light, five shadows with gno warn CA, in the phyphic pundto he makes, which take the shark at the corner of BAE very carefully go When this is done, the AV line is produced cis in E, and where the Moon makes a circle, ad that punctuate another line CE, from the center C lead the lands, and a triangle will be produced ACN, by whose favor the difthance of the Moon by this art thou shalt raise up any thing from the earth. An The throat C makes known the moon's diftantia from ver tice, that is, the arch of ED. The angle at which which DAE makes known as the angle of the shadow VAC, equal to the angle DAE, as you can ad top: here futradtus from o. steps He leaves the angle EAC: but two notes the angles A, in the triangle EAC, thirdly, the AEC will not be able to move aside; also at the corners, and on one side of any one triangles, and the remaining sides are known the same Let it be, therefore, that the end of the angle E, ad line AC femcliameter ground: note, thus the end of the angle C AE to another; produce then the line CE diverging the Moon from the center three times shave St Sciatberic
'ix qaxBtx Or so; as the end of the angle E ad AC mark, so the end of the angle ACE to another; will be produced the line AE diverging from the Moon from with the eye of the menfore; That mechanically pras- you will be able to laugh; for let be the line AC, which; It refers to the semidiameter of the earth, in this it is two thousand miles, and the same menfura the remaining sides of the triangle AE and C of the oxen, the Moon will give the EC side the difference; a the center of the earth in the parts of the side AC, la tus AE diftantia Lunas from the fuperficia lands, fire with the eye of the menfore in the same parts. God we found the moon from the earth which had to be done. Problem The breadth, the thickness of the shadow to find earthly r TT little by little, and by parts to notice the size of the bodies of the coelefts let's get down to the basics first let us examine the earthly burden, as from it how many, and how wonderful they emanate Ledtor is worth a look for the curious. Shadow We call that whole cone earthly the shadow, the dark fire, which I hope The mentioned lands are illuminated by the Sun. They are but two with the first to be offered in it, Craffities shadows, five diametrical width in that place, in which the circle of the Head, and Dragon's tail, and the moon in it At the time of the eclipse he did it. Secondly the length of the shadow: five, which is the same the length of the axis of the cone. To craft in regard to which it is necessary to note the width of the diametric arm from the semidiameter lands in by taking femper to decrefce, for Lu nose in eccentric, epicyclic luo polishing don't take the bigger one, and the bigger one: go I support indeed the smallest, the largest in after finishing From which pundits the greater which escapes from the greater eclipse. So then How great is the diameter of earthly shadows? whatever the latitude of the eclipse, you will be employed in this way. Let it be, then, at the time of the lunar eclipse day b obscured; fumma diligence bfcu you will offer his account; what will be done, be in I will find some habitation in the plains I stick some board through the intake hole Ram Lunas you should trust carefully, same- At the same time, the latitude of the Moon from Ephesus compared to the meridians, or the calculus, ha Be happy for to these he will give a double diamond
trum umbra quasfitanv But the matter is an example let us declare Let there be a circle of shadows, which the knotting of the knots produces the the ecliptic DAC, the Moon will pass the shadow B, pass and indeed I was already fuming with obfuscation the date also takes place at the same time by taking each knot from the other The latitude of the moon, for example min. God"1 with this half-diameter the shadows of the earth" nose For the latitude of the moon is nothing it is something else than the deviation from knots, five from the ecliptic DAC, which AB refers to, which de lineation, ciitn exfuppofitionefit44. min. therefore AB will be the middle diameter of the earth's shadows ABCD has the same number of min. which he doubled up on gram shade crafting min. will give what you were looking for Tycho, Quantius Copernicus fummi Artisans found fe miiameter shadow lands, the Moon in the apo- amne- gaeo conftituta min. and the same Moon in perig2eo conftituta min. Utverb receive the full intrusion of this thing, I will talk a little about the lunar eclipse here whereas, with one end, the other by no means can be understood Note, therefore, that the greatest eclipse is to be used the variety of the lunar threads, so you diverge where that the caufas are the ones who make up for it. The first is the latitude of the Moon: inasqualis: for it be so or there is none at all, or a little fault, by no means cit the greater eclipse, and the magnitude, and duration, with ipfi through the middle of the shadows it must be run: fed qub has been from the ecliptic more distant, so much more quickly thence fe ex on foot, so that sometimes the shadow can hardly be seen gat The second is inasqualis, and infta- Earthly bile, the shadows of craftiness, feu fpifi. fatudo, also an anomaly from an incomparable god the rising of the Sun from the earth; For the sun in The more remote the eccentric support, the more distant it causes the shadow to be extended; Sun ver5 for prior, so that the same may be abbreviated (viz while it is clear from the laws of the shadows) it is caufa. From this Copernicus found that the half-diameter the shadows in the place crossed by the highest moons, fire at the supports of the epicycle, the Sun in the apo with an eccentric gas, half-diameter I say that he found shady lands min. do But the Sun in the end of the eccentric s in the epi I was a supporter of the remaining cycle, a half-breed Again in the completion of the epicycle, viz Zzz o Attis magnae Liber ImCofmometn Gnomon Part II eonftituta in the lowest place, and the Sun at the bottom antrici fiimrna affide exiftente, femi- the diameter of the earth's shadow was found to be min, do But the sun in the heat of the summer b remaining in the perigee, the feniidiameter min, yi do this, indeed, in the eccentricity of the Sun ma. The third caufa is uneven d from the Sun di- graft For the moon quickly shortens the theme pus of duration, the slow verb that is longer for draws: whence it is made, as the duration tem pus both at the apex and perigee epicycle, while the width on both sides if it is the same, it becomes almost equal for at the perigee the shadow is fpiffibr, tan to the movement d is veociors so that the Moon has no having breadth, both at the apogaeus, and in perigseo the shadow of the dark earth but it is different from water almost at the time zdipfttfxe tranleat From these sayings they rebut the difference The rule of grow up give how much Lunar asm delay, total or partial eclipses. Totals what is done, by what the whole Moon is obscured: what again they are double, with pause end delay The total delay is when as long as he lingers in the shadows. To such a delay to such an end, when indeed the whole of Lu na is obscured; fed from the swiftness of the shadow emerges again. And this is done in the cafu the moon's diameter and latitude the shaft is equal to the half-diameter of the shadow, as in frequent Paradigm it appears, where AB, fe- the middle of the moon, AG verb its width; which two fimul jundfca are equal to the shadow femidiameter It is a partial eclipse, when therefore only one part of the moon is wanting; and it is triple, or indeed half the diameter of the Moon it falls short, either more or less. More fe it falls short, when in true opposition tatedeliquium tjonc the latitude of the moon was smaller than the thigh the diameter of the shadow, however, is greater than the diff bearing the semidiameters of the shadow, d. Half of the femidkimetri fails, when The latitude d in the ecliptic is equal to the semidiameter
of the shadows, and the moon sees Less the half-diameter falls short, when the width b be greater than the half-diameter of the shadow, my fire nor the aggregate of half-diameter shadows, And the moons from which they emerge in light these are the rules for the shade of the earth: I will give rentables. Rule I If they stay at the end of the total eclipse, they appear the diameter of the moon half, di add half the latitude of the moon, in it at that moment, it will be held infallibly titudo, five craftiness earthly shadows which thread Rule II If the eclipse was partial, d, fumma the obscuration was the half-day of the moon, it will be next to the previous demonstration The width of the moon is equal to the semidiameter shadows Rule III OI verb only a quarter of the lunar day the meter was obscured, and the Moon the same from the Sun, and the earth had a distance which he had eclipsed in obfcuration b that is, min. you will have a crafty um brae, be a quarter of the apparent diamond three lunar futrahas from the latitude of the Moon at the same time; for he will give the rest the skill of the shadow acquired. (2{egula IV. IF verb f lemidiameter were obfcura- tae, you will have the craftiness of the shadow, fi ap parent diameter b to be added to the width find the width of the bra with almost no problem you will be able to smile; as a little poft in ipfapraxi will be declared Problem X The apparent diameter of Lun-d, Sol, and from these, finally, the size of the body rum, and both shadows in to come From God is weak the line of human life to in'obfervo the number of bodies raised to be caught; so that it becomes scarcely palpable to the eye to reach the light from the snow will be helped In addition, various media by which the eyes were strangely deceived, i. e what is great is small; that pa- ruum, large; which is angular round exiftiment. So we see the lamp push the torch close to those looking at the pyramid issue removing the verb fphserica to appear, as in a fruitful book fufe is oftenfum. From here? reipfa semicircular light radiating let us look at the circular: whence the apparent ftel- due to the largest errors in the diameter of the it is noxious, and it seems scarcely possible to do so anything that has been said in this matter is proper nature so that I was not able to do so because of the reparations highly reliable variety the most Another method, therefore, to be made in such a way business truth must be obtained, must be held which we will produce in the light. He found yet the curiosity of the human mind is different I will give you the tools I have given you here we will explain, in which the better btu in the diameters of the bodies of the ap to the parents, as far as possible, Inda Aftronomi were to be used as gands. It is the first Dioptra of Ptolemy, whose fa It is a brick that is made. Let it be brought cubits long rum AB, in which, juxta pun- dtum A is normally erected another rule which is in the middle li nea, nve in pundto D, pa- ruum has an opening, to which the heart I will bring another answerer From the line AB, so infer, as in as if in the canal where let me move normally from here from there he But let him have af bring here a mobile two small fo branches LF, which in both a part equally removed from the lint a line D, and would have intru- chin prepared. Give it to me trum then of Sunday and Monday ap so you will trace the parent. Ex the moon or the sun blushing, Sc in me they laugh at the refractions they avoid you give it refpice by fo ramen D on the moon, the same a dioptre by advancing action FL, in the fuo channel here and so long, until two the extremities of the body o, d, that is, the diameter of the smoke, and the lowest pundtum vifu com catch it, and it will be a corner IDE, or YDX angle, funny by which the moon or the sun are seen and which diameter of the Sun, or Monday night. Various others in these ways the diameter is taken might, of whom Tycho see in the former Progymnafmata. Then note the diameter of the appa rent d, and its diftant a ter ra, we know the shadow of the earth to write down the truths for portions in this way. Let it be half the diameter of the earth known as AE, through whose ends they are led two lines, which I have disturbed B. Let them wait for so many minutes the corner of which Paulb before we find the apparent diameter d so, however, that either line EB or AB
let them contain that is the half-diameter of the earth: distance}) from the earth: like a triangle fa cies on the other side of the diameter ACF, the line that FC and EB, in parts AB, in D pro-5 the trees will give the shadow of the earth. True to us, the mechanical operation was restored no, geometrically this whole business ex- we will teach you to grow in a more efficient method, as it is done. Given the first apparent diameter o, d: therefore the group o ABC, the moon F, of earth M: therefore FG will be half the diameter of Lu nae perigaeae min. Fe. thrice, OP, the semidiameter of the shadow is m. do which lium MN is part fivetfo. Min now return OK, which touches the femininity- trum of the earth in N: erit therefore FK double iptus MN, by cl. Let them be carried away parts from this HK, which is ae the quality of the return of the OP by. Euclid. it is also falsified straight GF uebit GH, min. Er complete the chin is quick to par, is min fec. three For GI, MN are equal read by Em cold therefore let it be done logically as HI
or MN, li ve part so NH, to NC, that is, to MF fertile min. distance d from earth to I will heal the absence of the Sun from the earth min. fertile from which none We will find the business EC. For as an end all ME, meter o fic le has min. djftan distance q from the ground to half-diameters, min. which contains the semidiameter of the Sun. fer&que Which are expressed as cubic numbers, JO -tionsi Artis Magnae Book Ij. and the mouth of the cube is divided into a smaller one, The true corpulence of the Sun will be brought down by the coolness of the sun the earth; the heart of the sun was filled with fire greater than times, and a little more. Moon the land will be greener times, and a little more The axis of the shadow will thus be found: Abfcin- of AR equal to LM, will remain RE, already as RE to EM SicLM part to MQ femid. ​​min. pa- the sun also rests, this is the corner MEN is found in min. Therefore decline The sun's greatest corretta turns out to be par. min. almost, and the eccentricity of the Sun is equal. min, almost. All these learned I have drawn a mathematical proposition, as you see rent as many principles from one, wonderful, pa radix See Table. Table of the halves of the Sun, the Moon, and the Terrestrial Vmbrce, and the same dijlantijs from the Earth. Apogasis Media
The high ratio of the earth's shadow to measure Two balls AI, o, that line, for example A, I de lines, as their semidiameter fe to inu- they should be able to use f2. to diftantia quo that between the drawn groups let the difference of the Sun be three times ra. If, therefore, these two bodies two lines BMC DNC include them, they will form a cone DBC, the cone of the shadows of the earth NMC proportionate Geometrically, too he can already With the triangle ABC AO (which is produced from parallel OI, to the side BM fta) the daughters of Lint by elem. Euclid will be, as AC ad IC, so AB to OB, five to ipfi is equal to IM, and they divide so, as AI to IC, so OA to OB, five IM: and it is from the ftippofition AB party equals, of which IM is one. Why? OA will be therefore the same reason is to which lines of AI, which femininity contains tros terras ir to another number, which explain the amount of shadows of terror IC, Qofmom Gnomon. Tars I. I which is repeated by the golden rule what half-diameters of the earth. so much therefore there is a shadow of terror; quantity At- J that from this he gathers the uviverfal rule the shadow of someone else The rule of unfverfdlis about the shadow behind to grow Flat, like the sun's diameter back diameter to back diameter thus the sun's diffluence from one side to another, per the golden rule; for that will be the length shadows Problem The difference between Sun and Tena in half-- to look at the three They are stopped by two waiters two terrte places fub the same meridian removed as far as possible: it would be the easiest of all Antasci bring forth things, in which through the shadow
I would smoke as much as possible Ridiana from the height Let AB be the land whose cen trum C, Sol D; south IDH, water tor CG, places of obfervations B, A; H the vertex of the locus, A; GH, the width of the same degree min. Zenithloci, B, ejufi which latitude, GI, grad. Gnomes r B, A. Then divide the arc IH, bi it will be done in D, and there will be two CDs diftantia So lis from the earth, than in parts of the half-diameter earth; So you will find BC. Arc Gl added of the bow GH, will make the bow HI, which follows the Diftantia of the arc AB. Because therefore the arc IH, of the arc of Sol? s ur BA, DH, or ID the middle of the arc in the middle of the ratmtttm' a. u AN, or BN are fixed, as, and angles fciatheric BVC, AXC; whether you are subdued throat IBD, or VBC, namely degree min. of five semicircles, you will have the angle DBC, or IBV: you will therefore have three known terms, DBC grad. minutes BCD degree min. side BC, so the side CD cannot be sided. Yes for DC in parts equal to the parts of BC you will distribute them, they will give you abundance The sun was taken from the earth. Because the word Sol is unevenly used cent Sciatkerian geometry.
the center of the world, so that the power may be eccentric tus, is moved, also unequal difthan tiamaterra is a strong force. When then, therefore, at each eccentric degree a the earth is gone, in a little poft to be placed on the table The rising of the sun and the moon will be seen from the earth. Problem Another much easier system inVefiigandct dia meters of the Sun, s of the Sun and the Moon in objeu Immijjarum's place The problem. XII (the first half-day of the Sun takes place, in the find the third diameter. Let it be the Sun. A, his app a female parent meter BC, than in Inve the previous ones we taught him to d center of the earth In triangle BCD, ha we will drink three terms acquaintances sweet corner BDC, with which appa to the sun we found a rent which we wolf down I am drowning in the sun. my nut CD, by pre giving way of the earth, throat CBD Therefore, as BC to CD, thus the diameter of the earth to the diameter of the sun therefore the diameter of the sun will be at the diameter of the earth trum', as Pau Pus- Quae om nia by noftrumentum Vranome- you will add treacherously to the trice, as it is said. Qor potter. Hence the reason for the sun's fertility, ram you will easily find: for with the borders s, quo- leaves have a threefold ratio ho- mve-m0[0g0rum sides, will be the Sun to the earth fecund this mortgage, as ad Table diftantice of Sun, Moon d in the center of the earth parts of the semidiameter Gradus difta- Redarii aLu- Gradus difta- Redarii aLu-] tise ab apogato na ad Earth tiasabapogxo na ad Earth degree defe- quantity. you will bring Lu- in the parties of fe- rent of the sun nx. diameter lands.
QpEmpore coverage the bus of the chamber of any left, by ro punch some hole in the pla board for the transmiff of the Sun, or the light of the Moon be received, whose face is in ink, I am gone rubric was written around. Let DEL be the body Sunday or Monday opening HRI q figu ra leaves, or the moon in a dark place in ta bula reprsfentata Since then the radii In the opening of the Sun, let them intertwine, leave it quent neceflarib the corner of the shadow iE- what kind of bright angle to him at the top: it will be done therefore, as q R, the diameter of the projection of light in through the camera adRX, or q Xnotes, yes DL apparent diameter of the Sun known, ad or the matter from the earth, if the verb is the Sun's departure from the earth was previously known, and the diameter of the Sun what you desire: let it be, that RX, or that X, be marked ad the diameter q R thus XL, or XD for others and it will come out with a fixed diameter. Find the size of the clipped wire let Jic proceed. At the beginning of the eclipse they are transmitted -Ciinduftria handed down to the delinquent Sun, or The moon's rays on the walls of the interior of the house tem, or a table prepared for it, i. a by which you can divide the circle into fiim, and this in so far as here and there for move, then the fat circle, divide that I project a circle of light from each side fpondeats will manifest and confeftimlu cis fragment jjSol in diameter, parts?
leu fingers ecliptic I a a a tdtyfts total partial mgne LikrlX cofmom Gnomon. art II. JLrtificium Verum eclipfeon Lum folanum, smoke with the ease of stealing. rO Egula Catholica: When the Moon erc- The S-gione of the Sun has a wide latitude, or greater, or equal to the aggregate of females of the diameters of the shadow, and of the moon, iphius the light will be affected without any damage. But when than ipfa, by the third by aequa will lick in the punished G, therefore AG, the latitude of the Moon to the middle of the eclipsis I want to explore how many fingers the Moon should fail: so work. De- uot di i: I am the latitude of the Moon; from aggregate femi-mima de. of the diameters of the shadow, d will give the rest mi. do which fic place in regulate compare mi. do they do digi ftctat, to give if he has a smaller one, he will make some, or cluot: let the fingers procreate mi. do I was of the whole light j aduram: how much let it be allowed to hunt in the paddock, it is already difficult. But as it was already a little while ago, a double eclipse: partial or total. It is partial, when I was only a part of the earthly shadow sizzles The total is threefold, or at the end of the delay, or the CNM delay, or the central one: of which we will give paradigms instead of tongues, as an inquisitive wounder of an admirable nature; work let him see it better, and the divine near to him mana; discovering the strength of the mind in him let it be admired and admired. But to the point let's come Paradigm I, but from the decimation of the Moon from the ecliptic, dia meter of the Moon, and the amount of the shadow of the eclipse to steal Therefore, let the circle be defined in this fchemat casting a shadow in the place of the transit of the Moon BCDE i B to North, C to Or then, D to the South, E to the West. Hu right circle center A, semidiameter um bras AC, the diameter of the Moon GD, Eclip the tic portrb represents the CAE line: Iter and the lunar FGH so that F becomes the beginning of faith The moon is already before the true polishing um touching the shady circle a duller and a depriver of earthly braes of light The middle of the shield, the true fire this, let it be in G. Finis eclipsed and whole Lune emerlio, inH. Let the lines be drawn AF, AH, both of which contain the aggregate of the semidiameters of the shadow, and Monday. From the center the shadow is also drawn the perpendicular AG intersects the line HF, In this pad you will find finger, the fcrupula of one finger. It is conflated therefore not the whole Moon to fail j fed f. since the moon is only a part of the moon to care Further, fi minuteCafus, livepundain-Tpfiatri- of the cycle, which; they are nothing but mi- tcUpfiwk the sign of the Zodiac, which the Moon traverses So the problem was covered up from the beginning, and so on to the middle of it, be it particular, or a delay in the total end, or from the beginning to either end the beginning of total darkness. If you are universal when there is a delay: let these things be done, I say to trust, so to work. Let it be FG minutes cafus, the liveliest incident; , to whom they are equal to the greatest fulfillment, you see cet GH, but these are explored through penult. first elem. in this manner. Let them be refined multiply the minutes first in the fruitful one tion Let it be AF, fec. AG of the fruitful: and it will be square AF, square AG draw a square AG, from the square AF, almost. r. elem. eritq, square GF, or GH, whose side is tetragonal. the root of which drata fecund. what they do my nut pr. these are the most important to be cut down, to be filled with fire, this is, of light and recovery: who how much time will you spend on the bus? let it be, you will add it. The movement of the sun is scheduled it is But on Monday Ex- the head of the moon I was successful. by which I will be divided distribute fecund to be cut down pray first, that it may be done in the third; neck ges time to cut fcrupula, which; the hours are like a whirlwind. And here mo in all partial eclipses it is a vandal. Paradigm II. Eclipse total line delay, a lion in the shade Given the width d, the diameter of the same the shadow of the total failure of Luua, fid from [that delay, or manfione in determine bra size. Let it be in some eclipse of the moon
GB, min, fec, half diameter um bra Jfrometrk-fciathettca. br% as AC, fec. y. thrice Aggregate ex utroq: as AF, f. te so removed from the aggregate leaves min. a fecund. And the diameter of the moon is y. minutes, fec. which they make fingers It will be Monday. digitorum, fcru- of fleas; that is a small particle of the moon next to the calculus, it will be clear to this point. If, therefore, according to the operation in the preceding If you work in a traditional way, you will find F G less ta calus, or GH, the fire of replenishment the light of reason through the penultimate of the former elem. fbrupul uninsjgradus Utverb you have a duration, it must be selected from tables of the hourly movement of Sunday, Sc Monday. Let it be but Movement of the Sun hourly l But on Monday Mecunda Therefore, on Monday J And therefore the hot time, a whole hour when will give fcrupnlis. Paradigm III. A total eclipse with delay. Given width, diameter mm bra, to trace, how much the Moon in um his arm rested. half-delay gefima, ideftGI, orGK line, you will be hunting fic. remove the problem a meter i from the half-diameter of the shadow, vt re AI is left, which is min. fertile that is and it will be Square AI, fec. The square is hidden. DAG, Square GI, do whose root ipfa line GI, fec Hoc it is m. do These are the most important things of God half a death therefore the rest are fexagefi ma incidence namely m. Movement g horarius le. i excelTusu Therefore, it is time for this to be divided oftentus, hor. m. usually Time au tem half a delay; o hour m. Paradigm IV. Central total eclipse. Given the width along with the diameter d shadow, eclipjin in which the Moon is full in the cen tro ipjius shadow to throw down, to swear. therefore in some cclipfi of the total central Osemidiameter of the Moon i4 min. do Semidiameter shadow; min. lec. Aggregate from both min. do The true latitude of the North Moon is o. mjnut, yo. Let the semidiameter d in some ecliptic be m. fec. semidiameter of the shadow m; do the aggregate of both as AF, or AH m. true latitude m. as Why the latitude from ag gregato removed, they are left m. Fe. whose diameter b m. do God therefore the gites of the ecliptic are with fcrup. This is the fi diameter already elfet finger rum with about thirty, of which it is really tan then it is but still in all its glory I was undressed. In the same way as the previous line GF, or GH, is found in fec. this is it m. do And the line GF contains He was equally distressed by the incident, and gave a delay I. exit in middle pumfto G: why lexa- Therefore, because the center of the body of the Moon on so that it does not exist in the plane of the ecliptic, at any end advantage, or by mistake we will spoil the day meter, that is min. pushed of gefimis incidence, or of fulfillment s at pro A a a a z VJtgulA broken Artis magna Liber CofmMetrl Gnomon. (Part We have girded half an hour, that which of ag clustered half-diameter shadows of the moon which, the rest is, quickly min. 4o. fec And the hourly movement of the Sun is do On Monday I did Exceffus, live performance Monday, do Therefore, the time of the first hour, min. Half time min. usually Finally, the fingers of the ecliptic with fcru- pnlis, Paradigm I Oedipus Sol particular. Given the latitude, parallax d, half- and three o, and D being given, the quantity Eclipjis Q to trace. The first four strokes are drawn heaven, and likewise the journeys of the luminary the same letters as before. The true latitude of the Boreal Moon is min. Parallax in Iatit. m. do Meri dional Therefore the apparent latitude of the moon is Borealis Paradigm i. The total eclipse of the Sun. Given the latitude, parallax, femma- tro, ? D, to eclipse the total True latitude of the Moon Borealis min, Parallax in latitude South. min Therefore, the apparent latitude of the Moon Borealis min. o. do
Fan the Climate which fi are not mistaken about the odd climate The semidiameter of the Sun is m. do Semidiameter of Monday min. do Aggregate from both thighs. m. Rule: When aggregated from either side that lurninarium halfidiameter fuperat ap parent latitude with the Sun, fecun while afpe&um noftrum conjuntata, no it may not be any part of the body of the plant to be taken care of So I found it in the same way as before mouse ecliptic fingers cmn fcrup. Sixty-second incidence, feu minutes cafus GF go min. do Movement of the Sun srarius Monday, Excefus ve to Monday fec. Therefore, it is time for fcrupula, feu minutes of one if the latitude of the moon were not apparent, it would be fed central junction True in feb then the climate of the ecliptic fingers would be with the third, because that is the half-diameter of the Sun. fcrupula with dodrant, Lunaeq. i7. fcni- chicken with an ounce. And GF minutes of incidence min. do Moais Solis Horarius lec. Moon but He died on Monday, why time coffee, one hour min. Note On the proportion of movement to diameter Lively min. fubtendit, fed in oppofito femper, however, which is the proportion of ad That is the motion of the Sun in the hour to the diame trum vifualem But the day of the life of the moon three times in the height of the eccentric, epic. min. fubtendit fed in the height of eccentricity, op you want to grow epic. still, who the ratio is to that is the motion of the Moon (in an hour to the diameter of the living vessel. Qu all things, that they may be understood. Note On the manner of offering the diatnetros of the Sun. I Wtolemy, m diame lights nose ob- they are boiling Jfjkonomk $boto-jcktherica. once there were two main ways of offering the same hourly movement were the diameters of the lights in the ufo, or for by hydrology, water management ras hunted are the quantities of lights, as teftatur, and teaches Cleomedes lib. no far from the beginning i or through the ages ae of the five-night sunrises, according to the signs shadows which on the day of the Equinox of the East te Sun in Scapha, or Hemilphaerius excavated with great care they loved you, how very much for Macrobius libr. of Som. Scip. almost at the end. Hydrology in the wind is the diameter of both the Sun and the Moon, the fiftieth and fiftieth part I was years old. leu of minutes, and in addition, fertile. Through the shadows ro ninth part of the equinoctial hour, which contains one part with a belfe, of which jtfo. they wash away the whole circle; but because hujufinodi's offerings are deceptive, and so slippery, that it becomes very much inclined to hallucinate, therefore Ptolemy both rejects the mode c. and often diopters detect the Sun at the same point to be contained at an angle, the quantity of which He took it as a lust from the moon's delight which, while the ipfa revolved around the epicycle I was a wretched man; for then the corner that which is the body of the Sun it was due: by this fact he found the sun of the sun trum fcrupula with three When the moon is farthest from the earth, The diameter of the ippus was affected by failure. It is not difficult for the same reason that Lu nae the humblest and nearest to us trum game is, fcrupulorum with trient, as the book explains. Porrb, that they may be made to do difficult things, obfcuris nothing from Ptolemy dilfen- They are more recent, among whom Ipfos is not so A prodigal man agrees. Albategnius puts the same, but Ptolemy the diameter close; the moon; to the most distant one brings only new and full diameter Icrupulomm with the femifle near mo while But of the sun about the perigee with the good manner in which he did it it is partly the obfuscations, partly Lu if you notice differences from another side, see Purbachiis pro in the manner of the Albategni, fi. . Cut from this place it appears, pro- he eats Epitomes, as if per Inanus the traditional Regimontanus prefers the death of the catcher was washed away; He also delivers the rules of how to own the tables from the hour.
rum goes of the fruitful But just like feha bet ad thus two lcrupula21. fecun. ad 3-fcrup. 13-fecu. But the wood is from the boards echpfium Purbachij diameter of the Sun pofuL mouse After all, that of movements diameters between fe poffitelfe Analogy and similitude, that from it is perfect for the wide rivers, from which con- let them both shine when they come from more lands the mother is rich, and therefore the least appa keep his eyes, proceed with slow motion, Why is it read, that what is possible is also done sometimes the eclipse of the Sun approaches the universe the issue, however, never appears naturally he can, by reason of the diversity of his affections, as ro you are the Sun, the whole earth; will be universally eclipsed. next to Tmu the earth's bra is continually growing smaller, ? on the contrary What but the earth; the shadow grows The sun approaching its center, i. e It is manifest from this fchemate, in which ipla earth A, the body of the Sun farther E but closer to B. When, therefore, Solis cen trum in B, the shadow runs both ways to C which, however, the Sun in E, it is sent to F, nearer the ground. Listen I came near Let us suppose ED and BG, 8c AH, semidiameters of the Sun, and of the earth, elfe pa rallelos: since then ED and BG are equal half-diameter, wear the same proportion to AH, by quint. elem. During the fourth spring EC, to AC, fi cut ED, to AH, &EF, toAF: Sure BG, to AH; which matter by EC, to AC; BF, to AF; and through the same EA, to AC, the figs BA, to AF. But the first EA is three times greater tia BA, from hypotheli; therefore AC fertile ma jor is the fourth AF, per But AC length, feu axis mm brae, the Sun holding E, fi- cut AF, while Sol in B it is nearer to the earth: and by lec. elem. cone ACH to cone AFH, ficiutadAC, AF Hands Therefore, it will be hated, the shadow of the earth together with it rijs Inminarium motions the diameters ipfo- diCta, and rurfufe the same in let it be permitted to reason, which you have divided by one example, I have done the same 'declarafle fufficiat in the deliquio of the Sun of the year cuiiin is. Do not let the moon fail Aaaa ftarn border the greatest eclipfis Lu na Why the moon jingles Trienfibii let him not cast down. Artis magnct Liher I2C. (fofmn. Gnomon. 'Part II. bounding in true latitude from the ecliptic 6y. mi-' nut For the greatest half-diameter is Monday the min. do in the shade, when the sun was high we are min. fccund some con they make 6j. min. i. fec. Therefore I became Lu for the full had such a breadth, leu Boreal, southerly fire, will not fall into the shadow fed only by its edge it will shine all over the world, It is clear enough even now, the Sun and Lu for he should not fail in the light of the light I was a hunter, because of the latitudes of the Moon shave, as on the moon; appearing in fire, as in Sun's fault Let us form these three bodies ra, the Sun, the Moon and the Earth The journey should follow the same straight line; either none, or with a narrow width, it will not be able to touch the tiredness of another light. Un- de manifeftum e it, eofdem defedtus om to become the greatest and most formidable, fi cen among these three bodies the same re- They took that line. Other verb mino a thing for a fair part of the breadth, Total It is eclipsed, when the whole body is obscured of the centers of the three bodies, as The Gracians say, ue! , feu as ahj He&Qi-vi. Partial, or with the same bodies, as in what way they occupy the same redfam li Neam, read Cleomedes of Studious, who of the first elements cherished Porrb on the ecliptic boundaries and the lamp of both was given away. Ari- ftoteles at the end of the fertile ae heaven, among other things the reasons for which the earth is round: he says, also draws the argument h Luna: de- the fatties, which the ipfa suffers in the whole world the shadow lands. For it is confounded the same a little before, and after the full moon, as never corniculate, so femper to appear hunchbacked and puffed up: on the contrary, failing, while the shadow he enters, or a rarfum emerges therefrom, fem I was made by a cornicula. Whence manifest it is the end, the shadow of the extremity: Lunq's shining part faded from dullness
ta, necredtam exiftere lineam, nec cavam, led curvam, ac propterea ipfius umbrae fu per ficiem rotundam effe ac circularem. For other abfciffions of hujufinod, feu Utipfe also calls Ariftoteles, dtirvtlfA&t the light of the moon would by no means be done in everything Monday's delinquent bus Whence the iplam is made Effe the Iphaeric land: for I am a shadow I was a body, from where it is said, how much can be imitated at all. Scio autem mirari Studiofos harum di- fciplinarum, with which fblerity I prehenfum it becomes the Sun, who scarcely appears to be pedaling, far away fuperare hanc tantam molem terrae; with through the green moon, which is the judgment of the eyes it follows the Sun, but the same is smaller earth Likewise, the shadow of the earth; it becomes conic. Finally, that defedbus lighting on For many years they have been prophesied by wood not only in the place of heaven, but also in the hour of the day Nor do they undeservedly have such things surprise For the line of human in- Genius was never involved in such matters He could penetrate into the knowledge of God a certain forerunner, as Plato in quit in Epinomides. Why are these gifts of God? they are to be conflated with every tumult, propa ganda But the complete method, ta men to invite the Studiofos I want them naked to demonstrate the effectiveness of the method at the end to recite as soon as possible. "The most doctrinal method of eclipji fer- vata by Ptolemy. I. ptolemy parallaxin Luna: mira he explored the truth, and the true Lu- vfri, Uax: the width of the nose increased from the apparent, cut teaches chap. lib. For on Monday It is necessary for the defendants to have notice rae of latitude; likewise, as the Sun obfcu- reason at the end of the apparent breadth, and so the doctrine of parallax cannot possibly forefathers, as is clear. From here he judged another thing, and then the maxi mam Luna: novse, or in full difthantia nifiantia from the earth, pronounced geometrical way Lam half-diameters of the earth with one fence. Porrd had from other offerings no the proportions of the radii tricycle and epicycle, and eccentricity of the Moon as it has been reported. II. Then the quantities of the apparent Smidianx- of the diameters of the Sun, the Moon, and their shadows, offering in conjunction, and in the full moon, from obfervation The bus game is this way. First dioptra: Ufu noticed that the lights were contained by him in the corner, while the moon is shining in the distance. Then he used the two defiances of Monday; in which the other with the latitude of the Moon fet of fcrupulos with femifle, shadow dimmed a quarter of the diameter of the moon; in the other, on the other hand, is half the diameter, while the Moon would have a width of nice But in both he was tired and the moon was near the end of the epicycle. From here it was evidently a quarter of a dia meters of the most remote Moon to occupy in Coe lo fecundum noftrum afpedtum fcrupu- Now with the femifle, and the trident. What fumes four times the diameter of the moon, then fuifle fcrupulorum with trient, to whom was equal to the diameter of the Sun. fiUmbras finally, half-diameter to the left the ciimbefle of the fcrupulos; indeed, the center of the body of the Moon then he touched the extreme edge of the shadow. Hinc It is slightly open, the diameter of the shadow fe to have the diameter of the moon figut to f. jfftmnetm boto-fciatlertca.
to y. and take down that perpetual account He throws in all the other offenses of the moon. But it is from these things that the shadows are manifested the diameter of the lunar diameter; yet the moon is not soon made of it the smaller the earth. III. Therefore, according to this geometrical way, feu jux ta dod: rinam of plane triangles con it bears the apparent half-diameters of the Moon, and umbrse, with the diftantance of the moon's farni Pit, on the other hand, by dimitting his daughters triple ratio from cubic multiplication of a given reason. Since then Solis he who is freed from the earth becomes a perin of such to it will be the body of the earth, fig to For these cubes are produced from in both terms. Therefore the sun is greater you will shake the earth a hundred times, and so more In a similar way you will find the Moon scarcely a fortieth part of the whole
the diameters of the ground; where the earthly group was discovered; the same Sola ris body only part, because to its diameter has fe, as fig. Ourmom- at You see, then, how many even the parallaxes of the Moon; beyond for this thing has a fire in it in predetermining the obfucations of the Sun, ex Ptolemy also reasoned the same first, how many square meters of earth take the interval of Monday, then ex at this ipfo interval the account of di is hunted of the measurers of the earth, the moon, and the shadow; whence the shadow of the earth was revealed to the elf I will kill From these he further collects Solis St a wall, St quantity. But we want to turn the sun's parallax through the intru- menta hadid obervable, ex ejufdem in tervallo conftituit, and pronounces, 8tc. Elae in favor of the futuidoforum, how few mis" he liked to mention. But if anyone what about the quantities of others of the Arabs, the legate Al- bat chap. Alphrag. diff. and reli whom; however, they vary a lot. As in an uncertain matter full of conjectures. Why? ca Ptolemy passes this whole place it makes me But we have already done as much as we were allowed to do clearly explained, let us proceed further. Problem Injlrumento fimphcl all the heart of the heavens pore diameters, sizes, um= bras, widths, with each other's help to delineate the threads to the vice, fif to steal Let there be a certain rule in the manner of a standard, two-footed, three-footed or whatever of magnitude (for he was greater, tan to, as in all other Cfcior whose larger arm IL becomes y. or anyone's feet; the further it was better; less true IB twice the size Let these two arms be in in the center of the 1st vertebra conjoined, so that IM dit fe half-diameter of the moon, only tife fcrupulorum with fecund. of which The half-diameter of the earth is 6o. It is clear, then, that both shadows I will conjecture, the figure of the fire of the goal, failing finally into the beak, and therefore the Sun the greater the ground, the pedal only be made, He could not, therefore, be concerned with quantities of these three bodies of iron tia, the depth of the moon meters stolen before they betray rallaxes on the same day For if the rest let us put the unvaried mortgages Lu Nay, what a distance of earth. meters of land, will be found near the same do a triangular column, half-diameters brse completely equal to the earth's half-diameter. Thus the shadow of the earth would be cylindrical the effigy of the column was waxed, and it had no fi to use the words of Pliny. Rurfum, fi ad let us here take the greater removal of Lu Nae, as half-diameters of the earth, offer there is the half-diameter of the shadow (in the place transit of the Moon) hemidiametrorumter- Doubt of the race. So the shadows on this Monday diftan- soks kTer- tjam with the rest of the mortgages not changed, neceflarid ETFet ldeft, form ca lathi, the fire of the whirlwind of the net; fic to unite with in length and breadth also to infinity it grows, rc. IV. From these porrd the arguments of the same way there Ptolemy, the removal of the Sun from the whole to contain in the middle three half-diameters rae Solis also contains the semidiameter the same half-diameters as the femifle. Whence The diameter of the sun to that of the earth is at At the bottom he finds the axis of the shadow of the same diameter. Why ex the slowness of Ptolemy's eccentricity of the Sun contains half diameters of the earth with in the next quarter: which, however, from Alba- hemidiameter. Vi of the same head, V. Now the ratio is easy nes of the three bodies from the data. to retrace the diameters, for by the last elem. fphae- ra to each other in triple ra- $6o jirtis Book l2. greater to be moved in all degrees of the semicircle poilit When I have done this, draw a line in the middle arms in two lines IK, IM in I con running, it was broken out, like a cen tro hemicirculus CGE ini8o. parts from very rich After this, from the panfo circinus from I, long fruitful arc MN
rule of thumb: IM is written in which arc from by only one step the distance between the line drawn in the arc MN, qua: iniilorefecabitgrad every one of them ius of the circle, which should be cut off at an interval of IM. This degree M again in parts, five a few minutes, and he took steps here fua minuta, rich in apparent minutiae of the diameters of the celestial bodies walking, as will be seen; that bow the larger it was, the more will give rights lius hemicircle, or quadrant FHC, which center K on the line KD moving, leu curfo- ris has duties. The green line is IK, or IB in any number of parts, for example iooo. or even more at the discretion of the divine artist is given, for the more minute division had, so much better, and more prosperous and each of them again in ioo. it is supposed to be divided into parts. In as many parts divide the IM line in the greater arm; of hence in both lines IB, or IM, from the 1st cent beginning with tro count parts, quot that is to say, a half-diameter of land: miles ha we found to drink, and this meters of land he carries in the line IB, IM which you will be able to Take this as well two strands of ferric, wax previously strengthened, which in fpacia fpaciis semidiametriterrae ae such as you divide, affixed in the centers (semicircu- CGE, EEIK cloths with which they bind there are threads: and I would have an intrument in front of me as you can see. Canon I Solis, Tendi diftantla to find. Um conftet Lunam fiXoTOfAOV that is, while it appears to us that the damage is twofold, a Do not burn in the sun, not even at degrees. Since moreover, the line AOC from the center of the Sun to the center of the Monday duda line IN he made to the corners: ouranometric noftro, hifce fup- having polished the distance of the Sun from the Moon, that which it's a joke Numbers from intrument Ouranometric sheet precedes. verfus D di the distance of the moon from the earth too much in the average half-hearted meters of land) parts, and there extend the wire, so that with the line AD the angle (which will be easily done, fi I recently promoted the quarter Qofmom Gnomon. (Part II. pound, wire then through you will lead. Then from the center of another le- of the small CGE, the second wire should be extended by the degree, where these threads are fpacio, in which he compares one with the other tur for these sides will give a difference of the Sun from the Earth, and from the Moon Or not the threads divide the fint into parts and intercept the circle match JjtromYma fihoto-fciatbericd. and it will be as IN, or NM j so difta tia of the Sun from the earth to the diameter of the Sun. Since therefore IN, the side becomes known in the female parts the earth's diameters: will be NM, the known diameter of the Sun in the same parts. HaC held, with the fint diameter in triplicate reason, easy to notice the size you will arrive at five leaves of the body. parts f6. in the basic line IK, vi-. I am interspersed with those qooties in both threads be contained; for that will be the difference of So a dispute over land; for it is a triangle this is similar to the large triangle tia of the Sun and of the Moon from the earth, together with the third side diftant: the Sun is founded by the Moon. Ha bito igitnr one ktere redto, the other sides fe ipfis innotefcent j but in this fig. NB give The moon is ftant: therefore it is placed known from the earth the other sides will be notified. {The side of the tree then AB the earth's distance from the sun is measured the half-diameter of the earth, give the result the distance of the sun from the earth. In another way through the end. Let then the land of Bin old figure Illuminated moons part of the ION circle, obscured by fplendido solving and it becomes fub ipfa line IN, qL It is directed to the eye of the nose in B: because but the fplendida part of ION femper fedda It touches the sun, and it happens that a line is produced CO, normal line IN, ipfa to Solis reach the center Moreover, it should be a corner B degrees as many as the moon it recedes from the Sun: therefore it will be trine ABO in the corners notum: aci B quidem gra two of the wolf's work: to the center of the moon return the rest A grad. will notice sides will be notified. So that's the end
the angle A to BZ is the distance of the moon from the earth, namely half-diameters of the earth s thus the end of the angle return to another j will come out AB the rising of the Sun from the earth. Canon Given the apparent diameter of the Sun, feu angu lo of life, the sun's departure from earth to find the diameter of the Sun in semidiameters terre. Let it be the corner of the living room, the fire appearing to the diamond thrice Sunday min. in measure from the earth diameter, which is hemidiameters rum of the earth: you will find with the help of threads, how many le- The diameter of the earth is the diameter of the sun neat, this ihduftria I stretched the threads so are joined in the center of the hemicircle CGH, as one by the other by threatened it is drawn at the level of MN, the line of the greater parts: IK being equal; parts in li- at the end of the standard arm drawn that is, as nea IM, the weak will give the height, five the angle which it makes at becomes min. when the distance of the moon from the earth qnafitaun. Corollary. Diffused from the earth, and apparent its diameter, the same ratio lest the greatness of the diameter of lu be manifest nose to the ground: keeping the word in proportion; the greatness, the fire, the splendor of the Moon: by the ruler lam about three times the proportion of the diameter rum, but not so much from the preceding bus, led from the third book of Art noltraema- genetically fufe defcripfimns, soon unknown telcet
Canon IlL Diftantia Lunet from the earth through the injtrumen then to inveterate the other. O Epetatur figure folio propofita, Where by offering, deliver there so we find the triangle AEC, whose an throat ACE, becomes f. steps, shadow: an gulus CAV, or DAE, becomes grad. little lo more, who fubdudti a degrees re they leave the corner CAE: the corner parallax, will be AEC. With these findings, none almost the business of the distance of the moon from the earth with the help intrumenti noftri Ouranometrici fol. you will find it polished. Place the semicircle FHK, center fura line KI, in particles that refer to AC the diameter of the earth: in miles then draw one thread to the center af fixed by 4f. degree of quadrant CG, al a sharp wire attached to the center of the hemicircle K by the degree of the quadrant H E: where for let these two threads kill fe, where they are trusted the number of parts carried in the wires or if the fi is not taken, you will apply the fi light the red line IM, divide it into parts that is to say, the corner of the living room, which ap the parent diameter of the Sun fubtendit: in thread au tem, feu line IM, count the parts tae they will give a triangle ifolceles prdrfus fi thousand ilbfceli, that the village lines from the eye io in the center of the world together with So they base the issue on the diameter of the living thing; as lint two the wires IN, IM, which are at the 1st corner of the beam and in length parts. which is the distance of the sun from the average earth Canon IV irtVeftigation of the altitude of the Sun from the earth by inftnment You will be able to use this tool to detect the distance of the Sun from the earth I promise this: First, let's start the parallax So issue at the time when in the meridian grad. is elevated: for at this height the sun is refracted B b b b Artis grande Book IX cofmom Gnomon. Part itions Then the degrees of the ecliptic true at the same time near the horizon the elevation that you will have, be complete chin elevation pole tuse region, five to the height of the occupier, add the declination the Boreal Nem of the Sun; or take from the same He was from the south: for these are of the decline Complete the steps added or removed on the chin of the elevation of the pole, they will give the true So center elevation above the horizon a liter of smoke Then from the fuperfic three times rae to the fenfiable Sun, ele the sun the south wind will be covered by the shade. tJt in this figure, fup. in the Moon; offer it was done by will; and there will be an elevation of the Sun from the land of lust; oblervata neceffario with a greater elevation of the same to the center of the third compared to f Which; difference verb, which mathematical central altitude of the Sun fat phyficam, is called parallax as in It is clear from the prasfent fchemate, in which C earth, AC half the diameter of the earth, FD mathematics, five central altitude of the Sun, degrees of the ecliptic; any one's pawn, how much
The sun takes over; BD, same phyphic height do, which shows the angle of the line; shadow felucis, &ftili; would have a triangle FCD, whose angle C, is known from the height the degrees of the ecliptic; ; "parallel angle D" Ladticus is also known, so that you can make a difference between physics and mathematics in depth the day of the Sun, which the aggregate fubtra dnm by degrees, leaves the corner CAD Therefore, with the three triangles known on one side CA, as you can rae in known miles, will be the rest the sides are known by the intrument of the noftrum. This art in ID land, five center K fu- for parts, then with one thread from per the degree of elevation of the Sun mathematically Is it the second one from Kper phyfica? lift up extend the degree of the sun: for where this two threads of fe have killed, there in par they will manifest themselves in these half-diameters of the earth The height of the sun is reached by the earth, in the wire indeed I mathematics, but in the real K phytic See Intrumentus, fol. Problem The proportions of the diameters of all planes taro to the Sun, and from these finally the shadow to describe the lengths of the rum. Canon I What is the diameter of the sun, the earth? his shadow PRimb by traditional fup. fol. take it the diameter of the Sun and Moon appear theme with the fruitful abundance of both lights nose from the ground through canon II. honest I would proceed with the help of wires a fanted triangle with a cofmic triangle of Sunday, and of Monday, in the mouth of both ends, And in the center of the earth was founded a likeness; by which bito, the ratio of Sc to the diameter will be taken rum and both luminaries in the parts of fe the diameter of the earth. Then you will find a diamond have the diameter of the earth at the diameter of the moon re, as to y. the diameter of the green earth ad the diameter of the Sun is effeut y. to or as to y. a little more Of these proportions help, shade the earth; with the help of the intrutum so you will investigate. Let them be made according to the proportions of the diameters of the sun, of the earth; first in In the center of the first intrumenti fol. carried away the little one was carried to the circus by the eagerness of the circus lus, whose half-diameter you translate in li neam IM, that is thousands and hundreds of times drags twice, a moderate speed of the sun from the earth, and there the diameter of the sun should be rest according to the given proportion of the content spinning the diameter of the earth. Wherefore, let it be done fixed with two threads in the last pun&nm dia of a meter of soil, so you apply to the earth globe, that they may touch him only a thousand pounds; then with the threads of the same length, until they become one let them gather together, and this cone will report Shall I then become his shadow? transfer the length into the IM line, give it is a bit for you in parts of the femedimeter of the earth the desired length. But if you are lunar shadow trust to make greatness within the cone of the earth's shadow, beware of the threads threatened according to the proportion of the diameter we came to have faith, as to adapta the lunar diameter: that is, fi diameter the earth will be divided by the moon diameter in equal parts divide the diameter of the earth into parts live That will be easily done, if you intercept the cir dinner jiftrometrU f? hoto-fcktberica. buy in the diameter of the earth parts io. fcilieet double the diameter, and so enter you will apply the shadow cone, until the terminating lines of the cone touch; and the transit of the Moon would take place in the cone in the shadow of the earth From the center of the tree there the moon was turned within the shadow and on either side they will cast shadows on the female parts the diameter of the earth, the length of the shadow lu the nose of the body, illuminated by the sun, is cut off; or even a space of wires within the moon diameter, and the apex of the cone is cut into a circle wide in line IM, there he will attach ma the size of the lunar shadow in the semi- the ground Corollary. Xnc is clear. The largest shadow of the moon the other half-diameters of the earth matter and take a piece of it from the ground with a depth of half-diameters of the earth, nor touch another planet besides earth I really wanted to Canon XI A distance of d from the center of the earth, and each ma to investigate the size and shade. Thus obtain a distance of from the center of the earth twice See when the 2nd is most from the Sun yields, and when he was in a greater epic cli evasion: for it was noted by
Aftronomis the shark from the earth with the sun moderately distant from the earth to have, fcilicet femidiam. of the earth But Ephesus will give you these affections Merides, tables Given therefore in time take the apparent diameter by in- ftrumentum Vranometricum fol. de- min. Then in line IM, the velinipfi threads determine the distance from the earth femi of the same diameters, and the number of wires from center for min. feu fec. bow MN. For if the terms of combine the red of the earth, it will give you have body diameters in parts the mark of the semidiameters of the earth; than Sc Mathematically, you will be able to have: but in the end you will have it more precisely. T. I mention 000-thousand-diameter arc of the corner &umbm tis diameter2 thus to another, for Mercury, the diameter of Mercurial's body. Here so you will find a familiar shade of it. Diftantia farthest from the Sun, it is from the artificers in venta hemidiametr. lands j diame three times of the Sun, as from the table of proportions in it is to be placed on the fertile ones, it is to the dia meter as to i. If, therefore, I be helped the fecundity of the belt hafce the proportions tfian-.
conftitiias the throat, so that the threads of the diameter of So in the data falling from the Sun will give j the length of the shadow of the twisted threads illuminated by the Sun in the parts of the diamond the land of thunder; , viz. and shadows the apex from the Sun will be half-diameters terror; Corollary. with whom it is easy to know whether Mercury's shadow was eclipsed by S he puffs For when the apex of the shadow was difteta Sun half-diameter of the earth: Venus au tem from the Sun (as in fertile it will be seen half the diameter of the earth: i to it he will not be able to reach Canon III. Friday's distance from the earth, O Sun y that shade, size, and other things proportions, by shadow, lu to find out Let us proceed further, here first, epicycle must be drawn, as from its proportion to the great world let us come to health. To be noted, then? to be at its greatest distance from the Sun steps. By polishing this, it becomes the center three times ras O, from which, as if in the center, a red line OB, the arc ABC was drawn, in which both sides that you number degrees: each line OC, OC, be within the hafce circle from B de fcripferis will be here epicycle quafitus whose supports N, through X, enter this circle is variously spaced: for from N the half-circle of NCX, when the Sun's neck, that is to say, is called eart&ipos: five vefperugo s fi verb per hemicircle XCNperagrat, he compares in the morning before the Sun, five Lucifer is said. Bewildered but it is here in the last times from the spring lynces Aftronomis, almost the same annual increases decreases of light to suffer peacefully, which; d menftruo is allowed fpa i. e. Thus from the light of the Sun emerging from N X dftfixopim s in A in PT fine it seems that the fire of the sword That fan around the world He provided the Physiologists with an impressive nature; philofophand material; from which indeed the wonderful phenomenon of difficulty tur, qua: the retrb of almost all the ancients Aftronomoruint strange in moaum tonit wr, characters, while they are unable to grasp, why cir- majl, r ca pengasus minor, about the support of the ve- e rb should appear larger. Caufa of this verb ex information about modern phenomena is very easy to pa B b b b s tet. Jietis magu Libet lj, ofmm. Gnomon. art so If in N is exiftens, fe per mo nia then the sides will be known first qt& while the Moon; He has full possessions in every neighbor, that through the intrujfientus of Ouranos metric fol. o. delivered, with this effort. On the line IK find the distance of the Sun from the earth found in previous ones hemidia- I measure earth; : or even inIM, fi IK ni it would be short: and the term of these was broken of the numbers apply to the center of the K quadrant mobile KHI'. When I'm ready, stretch out one wire from by step in which pulling CG, another thread from K through the degree of the quadrant HF, in the line IK; (or
by the degree of the quadrant HK, if desired semicircle in the line IM) where the wires fe inter- they will feign, the body of the Moon will be buried there; So if you fasten the threads in the parts, the lines IM, or OB, prsfen. fig. they will give you fi light OC, distance from the earth; wire verb BO has a distance of k o in parts of the line BC I would be happy. BC quoqne, a half-diameter epi the amount of the cycle will tip the shark rich from the same; hence coniequen- three times the circumference of the whole epicycle of the globe, and they speak and speak. Diftautia where that from the earth, while in M apogso, while in For if the difference Sun dichotomous from Venus, feu which is the same is, add the semidiameter of the epicycle di When the sun rises from the earth, you will have a great deal of time I fell from the earth and became the same woman meter BC, from the land of Solissa you have taken, the rest perigss from the land of God it will manifest itself. Augis punito, quafi full, 8c cofen- whence it appears the greatest; I won in P ver6 but when Augis was punished, he was not punished The moon was greatly diminished by the light of the sword he faces From which you learned, if I am not mistaken, clearly it is clear that the difficulty of washing But already at a distance of from the earth, and they trace the Sun let us proceed. Diftamidm from the earth} by borders to find light shade. OBferva is at its greatest distance from the Sun tion and find the Sun in this with a flat square: or something else with any aftronomic injury, diftan its distance from the Sun is degrees: and it will be li nea viiual CO, on both sides in the same plane of faith in the body OC I say, it will be normal to CB by el. Eucl. fiet- which triangle on both sides CBO: in which on either side, iint returned, BCO, COB, degree ABO, degrees la you too BO, the sunshine of the sun from the earth me Diocris a half-measure; Om lands Investigate shadow Umbra itantvetigabis. Take ap xim f. handed over, and near the corner the diameter of the beam is and the diameter o a? with the guidance of the wires, make a triangle, enter that the proportions of the diameters correspond there he will give the beak of the shadow, five apex of this triangle, each with a diameter of ma The size of the shadow is times the diameter of the Sun the diameter is in proportion: which is net of the earth Accordingly, compare these data you will cast a conic shadow ea profuse reason, which in the preceding we taught it to be done. But if any Arithmetic more will be destroyed, so that this pragmatism does not to make it easy for the Goth. Indeed, for the lack of it Friday from the earth, so that the end is all at li whether the completion of the greatest elongation from the Sun grad. so half-diameter of the earth to something else; And he will give the fourth number OC, a distance of from the earth. Let it be done again the whole end to the greatest straight line; longitude from the Sun degrees; invigorate x to something else; will come out BC diftantia a O search You will find the shadow in this way: app Not the moon it reaches shadow Friday Shadow Tuesday no high level ri-as piant now the shadow it reaches Proportion of the globes ccelefiium to each other Jftrometrid fokaflcktberka. apparent diameter five finus returned fe the sharp corner of the living room, where it seems to be di ditas diameter to the whole end, thus appearing diameter to perigceas diftantia a ter ra i the fourth will give profit. Corollary. TTlncfequitur, Venetians shadow maxi- i3-mam, elTe femidiametr. earth; hemidiameter terre From which it is inferred, not concerning the Moon wear a romantic shade, when the Moon is from So le diftet half-diameters terree, Canon IV Apply shade canon XJumbra, magnitude inye- Jligareper the shadow of Jupiter. Diftantia Jupiter from the earth by parallaxinf meter, and the apparent depth of each from the Sun His distance from the earth, let them die through the shadow of Jupiter. Since This is revealed in the last days that wonderful phenomenon of the count bus Thursday and Saturday t by their movement Many things were unknown in earlier times to know these things: and the movement is indeed daily the count was surrounded by Jove hours; at which time twice also it was discovered that they were hiding. Therefore, these prcefervati, so we will invigorate his difference of Venus from the Sun, and proportionally
the diameter of the one to the other, the distance between them and Scheiner. Let it be Jupiter the proffus reason of the shadow of Mars, ficut j R comjtum orbes LKIH, earth F, So! in proceeding he was touched, moving around the horizon: hiding the count there When, therefore, his diftantity from thee, pq; the shadow of Jupiter RX Let it be is made according to the above rules. The triangle RFG is bisected, whose sides RF, meter lands; with the help of the threads in the noftro intrumento xacies a triangle, to which the circles gj let the g0ijs refer to the earth (which is a triangle o Rr Ct inviia nrnnnrfinnps niamerrnrnm x n. r G, according to the proportions of the diameters and the shadow of the 8th will soon be manifested in diameter Corollary. From this, there was no shadow on Mars of the planets to eclipse with but the neighbors of the Sun are very fint, and T? from So le more remote, fint, than, as the shadow can reach The size hiV from the fligerf, TLiTAgnitado is held on Tuesday, as in pre. lvJ. r. edentihu' with the help of the threads from the pfreeognites make diftantijs you will form Therefore, because of the interposition even V-counts in TIK first side, then in the shadow of his OPO, nothing required to know the sides of the triangle I was like a bow, which I was the first to see by worshiping in the shadow of each let's get to know each other But we know him very easily in this way: let it be hours a month the daily count to the whole circle light, orb grad. thus guide the hours (tem pus, namely, that in the arc of concealment they smoke) to something else: it will come out dry TO ini7. some steps To this king receding, through the apparent diarne- vertex FRG will be equal to iy. degree trumeijus, and by its diftantance from So. e. j I; jgj. n The sun's departure also from the earth in rtifiance Its apparent diameter was found to be known from the line FGj; therefore the remaining sides g L Quafi minutiae: diftantia RFj RG, were known to the artisans. So spread out in his own vero ejus a Sole femidiametr. ter- intrumento noftro onranometrico filum f tx If, therefore, you have already known this, go through the wires, and the other through the degree of the quadrant with the help of a triangle whose sides GFf Then take a certain rule 77c- minutes diftent, five minutes in which I intercept femidiameters ter- let them make an angle with fervata also di- rx jn the parts of the line IM. This space in its distance from the Sun: it will be clear as soon as you adjust the intercepted rule within the threads. diameter in half-diameter lands con- ur one thread is made to the normal rule, al be tarnished; whence the proportional thread of the space was intercepted by the termi ti fphasrarum, emerges, and cries as net and would have all the sides of the triangle to thus to the earth. Moreover quadra-nota in the parts intercepted fpacij, fisu Iri are you going? fexies, thirty in the con- nece land, IM. Or even so it's easier on the line you will see the young; but the earth intercepts a hundred times from the sun Lent; and it will be a little more, re then with one thread from K through o. degrees than triple to d, and more than double to the other by degrees g, paulb less than ftibduplus to the contortion of the wires, for here the earth will give a trian to the Sun finally i as f to an igulum, whose sides in partibus IM, 1IK, lunt learned. By the end of the verb thus ope-, Romanian then our numerical Jfrtis ftidgn# Liler l2. CofmOtn. Gnomon. II. rarely Flat, as a fine tangent of degrees to the end of the whole, so half-diameter of the earth, to something else; the RF line will appear tia of the earth by Jove. affecting degrees, thus ad something else; the line RG will appear, the diphtanta of the Sun k Mars size So you will have the shadow of Jupiter. Bring me the great importance of the Sun x a maxima Thursday will be left with the greatest need V a Sole half-diameter of the earth. Hac held, according to the preceding precepts take a meter o to find the diameter in fact, the ratio is divided by one the fifth, namely as to Let him be
tur, ut ad so to come forward bit shadow Jupiter half diameter of the earth quadrilateral Corollary. From which it is clear that Jupiter did not cast a shadow clipfare Saturnus, as you can not on Thursday distant from the earth's diameter: shadow au tem together with its difference from the Sun (fo- lum extends half-diameters. Por- rb held in diftantia, that is, of medium size thrice and his apparent half diameter min. will be held in proportion tio of the diameters, and finally for a portion of the fphaeras, as in the previous ones God is Diameter Saturday night ifual min. Photb-fcUtbericd firometry. Canon VI. Shadow, doubt, greatness even T? to grow X parallax T? Tycho found it, near 'the precepts given above, his from the earth have a medium height tros lands HoC therefore interval, fi with the help of threads together with an apparent diamond three of its quantity min. determine portion, and from this mechanically difpofed, the size h, to use its shadow, as we find that it is nearly extended to half-hearted meters of land It is true that the heart of Saturninus he knows the inequality of the pores, the diameter he will see that his will is hard to get. X This is done: fi ftellse fixed by us 'nondiftent, nifi femidiametns of the earth, as some wish, to poflfe them from Sa to be eclipsed by the shadow of the tower. Whoever therefore He succumbed to this obscurity, not much O new and paradoxical world, tell Thee let him eat. Canon VII
ftellte to be made manifest by this For when FE becomes perpeudicular ipfi DVj is the triangle EFD whose DFba from the apparent size of the shadow in notefeit, &EFj fused with the quantity of Ityl inherit, as long ago. Quareinnotefeit angle DEF; which is based on two things push, the outer corner AEB will be left. Porrb the angle AEB is the complement then the angle of elevation of Hellas zontem, with which she explored it Therefore the triangle EAB, known as the angles AEB, EBA; together with the EB side, which con flat from the lands half a diameter, innotefeet AB side He then fuses the ribbons from the center let us admit that the lands are diftant, hypothefin, of course as the shadow DF becomes no tabiles, FB the semidiameter lands to AB some reason, which the fub fenlum falls, in- it is understood that it was a demon fraud. Qubcl fi, indeed, no shadow can be brought forth, I have a certain business, the fire of the canal applied, by means of which the cloth should be culled fo ret, it would be expedient; for it will be done a tube leg instead of a tube, a lifeline instead of a ra- dij; finally a line from the hole of the tube in normally cast a shadow on the support drink The twinkling of the fixed stars is terrifying to cast a shadow (QTellarum fixarpm when it becomes so large from the center tertx diftantia, as a certain dimension by means of damages can hardly be explored it is done, nor even any parallel is given in which dem from the earth motion to come we prefer: not ob- still hindrance you, I say, be a woman it would be so bright that make a shadow cujufinodi effle the little dog Lyre, his help in confidence so notice of let us come The thing is so demon- let's break Let it be the earth ABC group its center B fixed strap A, fty- game EF, shade fty in the DFV plane, normally inherit s it becomes DA, the radius is A, I say the height ydlk, the fiibtiliffima system fixed by the third to become invefiigandee system. A Lia's investigation fane fubtiliffima through an- the parallax of the world is fixed from the earth the prodigious prowess of the admirable you will die in this meadow. May the earth be indefinable BC orbis, Sun HG fixed to the iphasra of the cloth rum, it becomes faithful in G, and the proportion of three li nearum BA, AG, BG fenfibilis. Let them be mo A earth, C Sun, G faithful, in the same reda, there will be no parallax, because CG, AG lines from the Sun, the earth in the fiaus dudse coincide Let the sun no longer be in C, fed in B, and the line AB, is drawn to D, or H, You have fixed the position of the Sun. And because the Sun is in B, that is it is a pound, to which Tycho relates ec- centricity, and support, and motion folds of the orbs of the Planets: innotefeet er go from the rules in aftronomia tradi folitis the quantity of the angle DBG, between the line ex The sun through the earth, and a line from the sun through fi
s to the moment by intru chin innotefeet F place of faith G fub fixed, .qni cx the earth A appears. It will be held therefore the arc between D place of Sun Flo- when you believe in life, which is the menfura of DAF ahguli; and because the proportion of BA is to AG fenfibilis, B verb outside the line AG; in therefore, BG, CG, AG will bow in line, and the angle DBG will be the angles BAG, jundis, as you can by external internal IngenioJiJJt- tnus mode differences fixed X find land. Offered tie Comet rum of fate from a Tjchone. Drtis grande Book IX Cojntdm. Gndmon. ars II. ppofitts triangle asqualis, and it will be parallax BGA with which polishes will be noted fatus BG: diftantia vide BG Solis a They call it a vulture. Let it be a globe of earth dianus AB Vranoburg A Prague B Star Vulture F, C, Comet in the same vertical FCE; on both sides FC, vi- to trust AG but the lack of faith from the earth j BA, too, the sun's departure from the earth. These things There is a difference between the leaves, and there is no EF here parallax, because it does not reflect, nor throat BGA, nor EGF, fed DE, men Lurat angle DAE, or BAG. If, however, two angles A, G in a parallatic trian throat BAG, fint sharks angle HBG ex- the third of the internal faces, and the fimul of the jundtis: the whole arc DEF will be given, known; from which The arc left DE leaves EGF, t an throat parallax shadows, with the help of which quan then the diameters of the bodies mun the divine of the Danes it works even more Canon VIII Kyejiigare the altitudes of comets from the earth. They are smoked with one and the same noon no two places differing in height; and the Planets will be forgotten, one and the same ra by some thread fixed in the same south not exiftente diftantia, and it is noted that they love thrice parallax, be what is done; and innotefcet from the angles and sides of the triangle The height of the comet. I declare the matter by example. Tycho and Hagecius, he in Vranoburg, here in Prague, which places the fub they are about the same south; he fell in love both at the appointed hour, St day, aflummed in with the same vertical exiftente fella, which la was i7 degree min. wherefore both He bound him in the same place of Heaven: a clear fire, a comet, the moon, etc that the Planets have given me a palsy let it be more luscious than the snares; in D. Vranoburgenfis obfcrvator it ne- ccffarid vidiflet in E. Ergo height humbler, and more often than not It would have been more remote, so that the line was clear he was shocked. Hence it is clear that those Comets who The larger Moon is said to have palsy they are henfi, and the moon is also a coward as ipfa convinces the parallax by nature. God and when the earth is from the center, then You are thus attracted by the hypocrisy. guide half a meter lands on the whole end, pro- and then at the end of the return pa the largest rallaxis, St producft will give di- ftantiam Comet: from the earth quasfitam, k cu right to the square square root square root God will give the comets from the earth fu- finish: for AI is done, prepare the fine return! laxis ACI, le has at the end the whole IC so the half-diameter lands to another, produce tUrque IC, diftantia quasfita. Jluer. You have two planets nnalinmrnnrmf3! in or taiVDfitircc parallax of any kind in the sky the greatest, the St. of one of them the land of the poor The leaders of the war were given to the end of his life in the name of parallax maxime, St produ- dfcitm by the end of the parallax the remaining part ris, and the fourth proceeding from the division, no mere will give some kind of phenomenon diftan- tianl. The mammoth of the Comets. Habita diftanting Comets from the center three times ras, St its apparent diameter through Probleai, go ahead, let it be done so that the end is complete finnm uAftrometrU Pboto-feiathericaT the end of the angle of the vifion diameter folded, thus a comet diftant; not from the earth so to another, the diameter of the comet will appear in in the meadows, known from the earth, known in diameter, nothing will be easier than in knowledge of the fertility of the whole body through the matter the appetites already fpe delivered to arrive. Ve the time will soon pass, I will drink myself too the chanic of all those that came here uC
mouse, 6c how wonderful things can be done here fint, the genius of Ledor, in short let us teach three times. What will happen, when first pra dida in tables rendered with one fynopfi we could OVRANOMETRIC PINAX In quo huc ufyue operoje trattatumeft unkoinrulm} fynopfi comprehetidu.
Charadeters of the planets Diftantia Pla of the dead from the cen the ground Proportions hemidiameter of the earth to the 1st half diameter Planet Quantitative Boron Plain col- wide to the ground Proportions diameter of the Sun adamant relied whose place neD Diftantes ma from the sun that is while Sol it is at its peak. LJmbrse maxi mae, what fun dunt planet red body Earth Semidiameter the earth contains a thousand middle di- Jiat mediocre d Semidiameter the earth has faith to midwife tross Earth containing tmlliaria fe has adfolia wealth SolisadiTerram use6. to The earth is rich d Sole fem. earth Earth's shadow most confident fem. ter.
fem. ter. As ij. ads- as to ITj fem. thrice fem. thrice
as to as to i. as to i. fem. thrice fem. thrice
as 6-to-1. as to fem. thrice fem. thrice as i. ad o. fem. thrice infinite shadow
as to 2Ty fem. thrice iy. fem. fem. ter. as n. adi
Sciatherko-cojmo-machine metric The use of these tables is huge, and wonderful; for by his grace, according given the proportions, the engine tefts, to model nature those efforts intrude, so as to eclipse the luminary to the living are expressed, of the rest also the planet relations to each other in number to weigh and menlura, in the shadows, and that threats But let me make the matter clear in a few words mouse Machine I Given the proportion of the diameter of the Sun, re fi- whose planets, together with the difiants, mechanically de- to terminate A Take the globe of glass, which the Sun r fentet, to whose diameter I was made in proportion to the diameter of the other planets nat, near the first! Let al fphra, which brings the earth from where: which material whose half-diameter adfphs ccc i Spbara Cofi mometrka conftrmlki Great Book of Art glass semidiameter solar fe ha beat, as? to put these two groups there next to the first column in the diftantia such parts as sneter earth: is Then I was forced you will illuminate the tree inside with a polished light, and you will see that there is no feces in heaven before you the first breath, as much as beyond half tem earth: the globe will be illuminated quan take the earth's distance clear then through the earthly shadow and all, where? they are taught hither and thither, as the other you will naturally look before the arbiter. If true you will make another ball, which is next to the filter for a fertile table? have, as at and this group you would be able to be in the right place next to the difference where k land goes, that is to say in the middle cri diftantia diameter of the earth? become this, I say, you could have a ball within So lem, and the earth, all eclipsed by the sun heresy, and those who eclipse the Solar system of the people those who will see, those who do not, you will discover. Yes the verb motion will suit both bodies if you apply it three times, it will last even longer you will see this, and other, which? Aftronomists They convey intricacies, and how earthly? let the shadow of the lua cover the part of the fuperficia, di be filled with incredible pleasure before You will look at it, a fool higher than the heavens. If the verb leans near the body, and perishes guorntA gs? a o, casteraque eccentrica pundta you are promoted proportionally then com- you will also perish the diversity of shadows, injfhara and crafitie of the same, not fecus and fi will be able to control the pace of the two lanes. I said a glass ball, because with these fphasras It should be brought to light by the sun, as ex let the eclippleon spread light over all bodies nature desires better dignity. Double but it will be possible to be enlightened three times: at the first pole put a candle inside not from all sides of it threatens, that in this matter the great mo it is of the mind, to be covered with fubtiliflima paper fet: for thus the light is more equal to the whole fphsera? will be able to communicate Another way to use
sheds more light, thus better effect fattum lortiri poteftj sphere, live ball Cryptalline, to which the light is applied behind, it was spreading from the sphere until the whole fjahas- the ram inftar of the fiery ball will light up, he will have that the Sun of the Sun raised up in all ages a mule, to be used A mirror too a hollow that receives the light he will do the same X' Magia Lars I Machinery II. Adapt the bodies of the planets to the body The sun, and the earth according to the proportions in displayed in pinnacles. the body having a learned proportion you will do, and according to the difthance of the same from the Sun, to be first diffused, the earth in the meantime He will offer a place in the middle holding lefe not only wonderful for you, led black which can be said to be delightful fpedtaailum: for first, how much shadow? the body of each planet illuminating it does, it becomes length, see how much breadth it will be bitter, whether the shadow is the same ground, or another does it touch the bodies? and as much as one shadow the other becomes greater? what part of the earth would the shadow be obscured? &fimiliahujufmo- give me the praise that can be said clearly they will be open. From this it will be clearly evident, whether ftel- Lm. Now? let them have their own light, whether. So le shared? It will also be seen whether the earth, illuminated by the sun, the moon in no to get some reflected light innumerable other things, which curious Le I leave it to be entrusted to the master. Machine III. To crush the Cojmometnca sphere. This fphasra should be better crushed, according to Copernicus's 5th, let it therefore be in a hall with an ample field, juxta fy Copernicus 3's plot for this nor find any of them the most suitable because A glass cup was placed in the center of the sun It is better to be strong in this operation will be able According to the given proportions bodies, and the difference between them body, feu fphaera? And the sun and the earth let them become orbs, each one of which moves the planet must have a correlative; that artifice, in Mechanics of noftra Thaumaturga fufe will be explained, you will have for in by which all the wonders of heaven may be looked upon let it be If the bodies of the planets are equal they would throw a liter from the Sun the amount of fertile shadows that the figure is startling, so that the earth would throw a um beam A3 umbra B3 C; shadow D d E F, all different, jux the difference of any quantity. Much has been learned from this point to Aftronomy they could have uttered falsehoods. Ve rum with that from other places of this work they must be gathered together, lest they become unfit to know their limits let us transfilire, confultb fubticuimus. Already verb light of the world copiofa feffis, his fub shadow Concluded books the shade must be made a little lighter so that they were inaugurated by Light and Shadow; the wire let's stop the getters; Let us conclude this universe of Coe- AJlrometrlci Tboto-fciatberkd. the size of their belt in order to bring out man's talent, what do you know? I intend to celebrate the discoveries silt so also, that which is more worthy ad I love our hearts in the wolf's nose of things to excite and inflame the matter I want to be safe because it is so big, and also the vastness of the heavens, cheap in lust the lands of this future become for us, as we see beauty and beauty. For Whoso earthly things shall not fail, Heaven affecting the immense size, curfi- fast bus, wide variety of fabrics to whom Who has rich halls with gold and silver? What wealth does he not despise? Take it back mouse" in memory of those words which Philofos-s He was almost like Seneca Chriftiana He taught with piety. How helpful (says he) between f der a ipfa wandering the rich pavement I did not laugh, and the whole earth was covered with gold I say only that which is necessary, and must be done admonishes ce gave, fed that which in secret carry avarice is preferred; nor could he before con keep the porches and ceilings of ivory and gold lightning, and thunderbolts, ? derived in do- Mosflumina} which all surrounds Cedum, and a ter- how ridiculous the boundaries of mortals become! piin That fani, like that in which we fight, in which na let us live, in which we set up the kingdoms. This Self
kill us with the same we close jfrtismagna Liher IlC. Qofmm. Gnomon. Part touching the whole world, a corner, for a great part covered by the sea, even those par- thee, in which there is a wide fqualidum, and or ujlum or when he is standing still, let him say to him: which is divided among so many nations by iron or by fire. As you can see, what a large portion of things are done in words How great are we in the kingdoms We part with iron We are leading a small group of triumphs on the side, Indeed, that amount will be taken by fefeBata It is great indeed: I yielded with a jellet cover Compose, the punBi will be cruel, or be blown to women, Here I will be the faith of men, here that of beasts. And the bird of the house: how much do I make this bird sing? Steals from the ocean E error the surrounding moisture Here the sea, add here the lakes and marshes And before the rapids let the rivers shake down the mountains Vertically, or lazily, they languish in motionless ponds And while they are raping with this force, they are drowning the world with this surge The greatest part of the earth is founded on a small foot of water, I was buried in a great depth like a small puff Does this amount also float, or is it equal to the sand? Or swell in the end of the waffle, the end of the tree, the mountains t Either it burns with too many flames f or it is numb with cold f Or does it lie in human unruly manfuefcere worship? Or to make a great animal in the faner of the fuccini f shame, b ftolidipraceps vefania voti! How much part of things is the faith, in which the glory of faith takes away Wrath roars, fear suffocates, pain burns, despair He forces the riches of iron, infidels, flame and poison! Of course, they will be furious with the human uproar. But what is the need to pass through Heaven, when the field of Appianus and the wanderings are lost This is how the Aftronomists have declared, as well as to us, the innumerable larum that are fed in it Or you will invest in this world. For in this way the Coeleftium of things is delightful. tis, let Coelorn's breadth be allowed to con- Templar? Wherefore, when he was able to pay the price of our Idaea, he did not take it in that part, the earth appears twice; narrowness, become when ca let us begin to fill the mind with the things of the leader; woe let us enter into the mind of the Heavens poor journeys; the delightful vertigo of the larum; let's measure with a most generous and awe-inspiring spirit it goes more to the dignity of the image; Fed even when he gave us greater pleasures let him lubminiftrat, those who conceive, to fp here at last that fupramundane branch, whose center everywhere, circumference never we will always be happy. ATHA- ATH AN A SII KIRCHERI From SOC. JESUS PRESBYTER GREAT ART LIGHT AND SHADOW Book Ten MAGIC LIGHT AND U M B R AE. In which the storage of Light and Shadow was effected bus applied to various ufos, is treated. PREFACE De Magia fcopo of this book. DEM us in this work It seems that il to those who while conVtVium of the people, and every greedy full of rum they flowed in small pieces, rarer in the last they put off the meal. smoke hither and in the nine whole books of the Light, And the shadow of miracles, openbufque admi with the lances, with which the wild beasts will perish with his help, fuse we were to die thank us at the court We believed that the fum Leclore would enter, ji this ultimo l. bro, eluti in anacepbalaof qua I will give, whatever is rare, I know, prepare doxumj prodigofumque fub Umbra, fqua- lore y Lucifque was hidden in the darkness, m we would rescue the light, and the human race rare and prodigious, and so to speak we would bring wu&tywm to hide tmm riches mexhaujlos evenfub vi- Contemplating these things, Le ctor, that great and admirable Nu a man at whose nod everything was blown up by whose workman the hand has worked so much for everyone, co- He would praise and love what he knew, and at last he would permanently poff. What an idea too. than as a deceptive habit, Juper- Jlitiofum, impure, impious, Devil We are exposed to the tradition of Magiftro, to whose even the name of Fhnfluina's ears abhorred they must f Double that natural one let us flatter one: one contemplative P the other producer. Contemplator Ma gia rerum m arcana nature majeftate pe the secret of the hidden ones is more fertile, and
ftrufiorfapience ejl some parts of which Mr. Toteles, Theophrastus m book de with surprising hearings, and that very against the hidden miracles of nature they touched the plate Another effedlrix of works innumerable people, of whom we are in this world bro we propose (every magic name fi- bi more commonly u fur pavit) while per incom lost accounts whatever in fnguhs difci- his plims, and his arts are admirable, in lu it pours out Hrebitas, powerful in this art wood pigeon with certain balances it is called fpcndife; as the aura of the spirit includes He would fly by pushing through the air. Hnjufmodi work The Great Book of Art TC Magic Part I suadum 0pus rn fpfapd. prodigious &ufilCU'r7l J I4 J J O Archimt- JtlCO exhibited tAvCblfHCUCS, u6V: y. I am happy to kill my silly jibilantesy He presented a lot of ftabdtob quafe t or how you do evil art bus imbutum, accufdturn, damnatnmque fuiffe complains. Jlbertm trunk ari Dumfacio about two hours fron I took out a rich, flowery ornament, and wept, and so innumerable; so much so that so many MCagsx you will become natural, how many disciplines are effective Arboy chi- AiVarnm's abilities are enumerated. So Ma- mica Alber- r gzaChemical portentofds of metals transj- it brings forth changes and mixtures. Medical let's choose you are a paradox? from no one I will not say that I shall betray him toss, fed and lively indeed. Second Partfff r contains aralfanca, as well as rays of reflections rather than refractions digiofeqne operations to light through fires Vanascolorefque lights are produced. Ter-Magia, ca- Various things in vain things fj) from all the blind generating the support of the fiVe tranfmu tation is carried out. At the end of which a kind of parerga acinedpnnir In which Indeed, we have said this to everyone, so that of the experiments carried out by nine in the treatment of infirmities, he brings forth more effectually that I should become an equal public, more exotic Mufiica} foreign Mia- j we would make the world, so as not to be certain for the uncertain Ven- tics j Optics, Mftronomy, so much we will defraud mfohtos expenfls: no'in emm i they produce effects, so that none of them can be easily multiplied, unheard of wonders, for many the reasons, who are well acquainted with the mysteries of the town, send how much mania they pour out on them He ascribes, And to these also not undeservedly; yet both reason and experience can be counted JVC driven by LucisQd 'genter brought back to the anvil, they claim Irx, to the fubtiles of whom, O not indeed any, the pyxter him} who to any of the following reasons when he joins the fn they are also added to the gaps in the minds of ff e. Of whom indeed they betray many things. to arouse astonishment to no doubt bet We divide this into three parts. In- we say, how much more pleasing are the ingenuity of Ventatis fofffhkf mdm we called him clever. For those who love magic, we trust this future. Horographtcam, feu cie Horologiis proditur briefly pr Libati s y now opus ipfum giofis j m which movement of Light, Shadow, I attack. Radioactive activities for horological effects PART ONE MAGIC HOROGR A P HIC A SIVE ON CLOCKS Prodigious All these things, which; to store hours to register, to pretend, faithfully, they are opened in earnest. Definition of tfifyfidgia horogrdphica. We've lost this match Tera Magic Horogra-1 I will put it where I am The book erases these things let the system begin and teach lest some be separated from the common Iiomin ufu removed, not in hours so much, led the rest of the rest by the drawing of circles, who bus effeds are produced, to whose cau- do not easily reach the fam, even the expert things Hence Horographic Magic We have not undeservedly called you ijMira. For it is iZirt, wonderful V1S of Light Shadow; , which; while om in these things the cat will get involved, and everything else they cling to the gentle world, the same in them They seem to preceft that in Timasus, Ani the mother of the world, that is, of all things that are profitable effusive and exotic operations caufa origin; but he is not a fool
it is true that he has instilled in all things combination But now the matter is over We will be shot. CHAPTER I About the occult, horography, radio in part re flo j partly reflected refrattoye to be instilled "PvEHorologijs direct, reflexes, refra- Ldifque fuse lib. delivered it is: he repeats that the rules handed down there to Ef now ap let us pray, let it be so. Probleme I. Barafcevafticum Oyum horodiHlcum clefcribere, in cpio lu a certain spot in a dark place hours instead of the son's demonfiret. Whenever light comes into shape, when- in any way cutting into the dark, um-tum L he casts a beam will offer a cat in obfucuro lo with the shadow of the confection in the face of any on the transparent plane of the border, the figure is opaque; great-grandson Again, whenever the light in the Pronunciation opening, however shaped, five tutn the ends of the dark endings occur, ex the light shines on the transparent plane I hide the shape of the li- What kind of figure? , opening; All these fuse book You will find a demo. Hifce principal I relied on him for what reason leaves in the light, or in the shade, in dark places let's see if we can sort out the nonsense. Take a hen's egg camels, or of another's flight, the greater, the better (as in fi the first gure of Iconium vigefimiquarti, li gnata letter ABCD, it is clear exempta- that the white with the yolk through two holes na CD, as if in teftas polis like ax to each other, the parts tranlmif- They are so firm that they are both horodis grasp the egg by the protruding side of the axis To overturn the sun at will he is able to strengthen it wherever he chooses. In me dio the length of the egg by the weight A, Ramen should be made very minute, through which the Sun a ray penetrating in the opulent part of the light ro tunda horam deradnftret, Hora; but in ovd Egg yolk horodicttd Vtdefig. i. Iconic
Magna Arti Book X. Magic (Part T. with this egg they will be defricated. chemical a stick of egg ACBD, first thrown into the plane tur: I do this from A pound there is a hemicircle EBF, which is divided into twelve You will divide the parts: for by this division punished from A reda; hidden drawn faeces bunt hemicycle oui ACBD in punitis s through which; parallel lines in the egg; du-. give they will give the polar clock to Ipacius indeed, the heliodrome is filled with that prodigious ra tion, which lib. y. pr aefcripfimus True It would seem difficult for any one of them with the aid of the obfervator, which fol. we decripfimus, and hours, and Ipacius the helipad, without any difficulty feri bet, be an egg on the time table he had the shore as the equinox ray the matter of the south entering through the opening with let the plane make an angle at the full height equal to the dinis pole; for on this account on the beach with a clock of any kind type, it didta kinds of clocks together with fpacio heliodphomus, and so to ta first mobile dodrina in the egg delcribe- there Any of this egg is wonderful. First, be the egg of the valve of ali whose wings are in the dark instead of the protruding parts of the axis, burn in this way hell, to cut off every ray of light also gives the equinoctial live line CD, in the egg there should be a beach on the level of the water toris: It will happen, like the shutters, oblcu- and in the room, the rays of the sun through the doors an enlightened man in the wealthy part of the world a kind of transparent egg yolk, ve- the clay will form a lamp in a bright shade, which running between circles all day, time ho- xafque demonftret the fummo of those looking on pore, while they do not see, whence this light It has a fugal origin, and for what reason conftanter hours, and the rest of the first mob The secret issue will indicate. Qor potter. From this it is clear, by what reason the other day tificium in all these bodies cem tranlinittentives, provided not om no diaphanous fint, of any kind are cer then the kind of marble, paper, parchment whether, an empty egg, and its daughters whatever the figure; have been, they will be presented. Problem I was surprised by the figure of death in a dark place, so reprwjentare, as though the shadow were perpetual in inflatable, now it grows, now it shrinks,
however, they were stretched out in the shade li hand inside the clock perpetually demonstrated. piat primb papyrus cylinder ACBE, of its figure, which Wheel; nuns organized languages; they seem to be angry with light this is the figure of death together with the spear from the char I will cut off those leaves instead of D You will expose them to the sun and thus you will spend hours in the interior of the city cunning trickery; take for the last ftylx the extremity of the finger is spread, and next to it according to the rule, the hours of the cylinder read the book propofitas, incribes. And being situated magnetic cylinder, so as part of the BEE, in- trorfum vergat ACL but extrorlum. And so the image of Horodidic death con- It will become a storm, so that the grass and the grass will shine out of the shade finding the finiftra of death confined within the hours of the poor demonftret The same will happen with bo papyraceo, it is done. Let the papyrus cube be BDCEQNO, Alia pra-m from lubtil paper, but the corners ending, ?er cu6umi and making a paper out of lubtil, and thee on the wood, within the sides of which it was painted the clock in that prodigious manner, in which Protea fciatherico Probi. VII. fol. It has been handed down that the size of the pipe is given the side of the cube, but its apex at A, lastly the weight of the shadow of the figure of death. Figure and death's graves on the side of the cube ECNO, that you exfcinde so right, that terminating parts, the figure of death per- let them express themselves When you're done, you'll Nephthys is brought here in some place of the valve The cube was first magnetically fitted, so that it was wide ra, and a papyrus farm from every side relpici poffint the sun shining there is something bright, and a fantastic death tis shadow on the opposite side of the cube, whose the extremity of the horasj finger is attached thereto outlined This test is more difficult We also showed no end of fear those who gazed, while they could not grasp by what artifice would this shadow be betrayed, and how, when the femper becomes changeable, however, I stretched it out with my finger, so firmly in it on the opposite side he would demonstrate for hours. If you rb you trust to present a black shadow, from a certain plate, or sheet of paper, or wood, death, or any other thing you will make a guar, but it is suffocating, as if from outside only a mild fceleti will be formed. That Horus you will set up the dinner in the open side of the cube; wild so that the tip of the finger falls on the pound A, brm And the sun overshadowing the star, outside the cube, black hours of death, as the previous demons breaking the shadow, inside in a dark place will present the confection. Corollary. From these it is clear that any figure of five lu some, five urnbrofam di da ratione to be exhibited, of any kind here in Aquila We have shown the shaded figure in which pedere N a small crack through which the Sun ra- passing a long time in the ill-flooded plain twodixt Hemifphasricus S, horis inignito in the shade ttfmejfipf- fa the eagle will strike the hour with a bright ray N fms. if, indeed, a bright, eagle to display defiantly- J Sun eagles figure bright point un D d d d brofo thing, cut out first the figure of the eagle, relidtoqiie in an opaque stone pundto, as before from Sol a cylinder or a cube will be placed; and will project Jirtis Magna Book X. Magic (Part I. the brofo showing the hour within the sides of the cube. If you porrd, you can make different shapes with this pad you will have, and their arms will be so dilated. so that the tips of the gnomon can be refponded: you will be able whatever you want exotic Problem The figures of the seven planets in light, yel shadow, to present in such a way that one in the days of the culvert, the same was attributed to him hours of government Olat is first a cube, a parallelepiped, or papyrus cylinder, receptacle a delicacy most suited to this business. Se- cundb, let the wheel be made of thicker paper BA, CA, DA, EA, EA, GA, HA, divide; in whose clay they are painted with the star of the Planets, or whatever any figure of other things, as a figure of this problem he teaches: one of which each, or fceptrum, or haftam, or finnle what he has in his hand, whose the ends of the wheel A are pressed into the center they give, where peak the shadows of the five light ho- we have been fed up with rodents. Thirdly, these figures cutting off the fertile extremities, as in
He must have given up to the former: then this wheel in the window of the room you attach it so as to surround it and with which he likes to go round at will, cen as the wheel falls, the side of the cube will be sharper. Quartb, the wheel of fic conftituta, verfatili in make an opening in the side of a cube or cylinder equal to one of the roofs; then in op- the side of the papyrus bes, according to the manner of lib. traditional, hours planetariums with as many circles on the days of the week in which order, and the charadeters of the planets I would have the adfcnbes of the reigning the number of planets Here is the clock. An hour of shame loSii would make a planetarium, for example on Jo you will turn the wheel in such a way as to turn the wheel The image of Jupiter exactly matches the open a rasp on the side of the receptacle; rays foliar fubintrantes and extreme figures Jo force fringings in the paper receptacle la they will cast a bright shadow on the ground I say the figure of Jupiter, whose extremity with the scepter in the hand of the image put the cube in the freezer for an hour I made a net. But the hour was settled, fi, which planets are governed, noffe if you wish, proceed within the circle of Thursday assigned to every hour that the light which the scepter terminates, he indicates; with the same in the place of Charadter the ruling planets com it will be a match. tura (for potter. TX in this unique lucumbar paradigm It is clear, by what reason Horodidic flowers of light and shade by artifice, the weapons of the nation were also forged disputes, and others to a miracle? they can be presented. But it is close to other things oar, that is to be further explored with curiosity We wanted to leave it to the reader. Problem In a difcontinuous place, with uneven walls And what diverges with the fuperficies, and planifque He will confide in all kinds of things, and he will be able to poff into them I'm stuck with protruding teeth the hollow of which mountain, or even within Pa of Latium, and the wall of Ecclefiarum, ho to delineate that art, but no one is an artist no one knows for certain what to conceive point, or lines, or shadow He was able to decide what to do. The place where the clock is drawn while the interior of any building's portico A B, multi-layered variety nous, as fig. V teaches. First take it in the fruit of the Mefoptic noftrurn, and that instead of someone who is at the clock to be drawn up by a prudent engineer He was more alive, that is to say, in O, thus af fix, but cannot be removed from the same. But before this is done, the damage is done with this skill you will prepare In the veil of the intrument from the point G, as the center, a clock vertical, right to the elevation of the pole of your mission, as lib. fuse it has been said, you will outline: or become a veil of the bottom don't wake up, the pandta of hours in limbo they will make light of the wood. For the wire from C He was brought out for a few hours in limbo of the time lines shown on the ipfbs screen He will report the registered. Second, the GF log it must be arranged like a line or a wire from C in pundto G dudtuin, make an angle with the plane of the veil equal to the complement elevation of the pole. To this end, oblong red cane, or charcoal If you have such a place, it will be higher than so that by plowing it may reach as far as it may go, the whole business, and the easiest of all, luminous ray in the dark, or reflected On the Sunday of the day to be prepared by means of bread it would be. or even during the day, do not enter the room the Goth would be expedient; obfcurato in place and magnetically before the screen fitted, lu you put the threat in the pundt G diopter, but that rule of confidence from the C center of the clock gii is brought up by the points of the hours: quo in fact, the shadow rules in any way divergent the best the most prominent plane anomaly is the shadow line he will throw away the fat; juxta which fi in didis pla if you draw a colored line, often let the same line give a certain hour: no I'll tell you about the rest of the timeline by the green light reflected, so for you give up A mirror is placed in the middle of the table la horographica intrumenti noftri Tire- tic, five obfervatorii fol.
in which, St horizontal clock depi- while it is done: then let the whole ma be twisted china, so that the end of the shadow of the femme for hours he shaves in the tropics; St the fimul punda reflected from the Mirror on the wall notes and they will give you a pound of reflection in the dark line, the tropics in the wall, together with the ends of the clocks li where are they from? Having therefore duly prepared everything, as in We said at the beginning, it was a sure loss instead, you will be so firmly pressed that you will make fufers the veil is precisely in the first vertical plane rii, St tigilum EF, meridian line re- foondeat". When this is done, let the thread be stretched out a wolf's pound, for example an hour in the morning: then applied to the eye at fo ramen G, see what parts in the objects di- I will stretch out the thread with continuous fuperficies it happens; by hafce for rubrica punda- tim marked, you will draw a line, you will have the line of the hour is fastened on the two plains. whether r6 does not want to touch the pole to the slats places, to proceed in the same way through luminare dioptro Goppofitum, St regu The trust from CE was eaten, juxta the shadow of the matter gluttony (which is the easiest of all) ho- you will draw rare lines. After this, ap a pound of copper wire folded through the hole G, put it in a small hole give it to the wall; St fruitful in this line Duda will give the line at the first hour. Not fe cus of decribing time lines you will proceed The apex of the phytalis is any part of the axis He can lose a pound. And so the pound you will find: by applying the eye to the hole G, slide through the center of the clock H, in webs of wood; for here is a ray of life will refer to the axis of the world. Therefore, to each one the extremity of the thing falling into the vital ray He could blow the end of the pipe, which would last for hours to demonstrate Therefore erect a pillar instead of a thread, five quid pendulums on the beam falling from the high half, five from the side a bus projecting something that touches the ray you have brought down the living will be broken The clock was therefore prepared you will have what you want with your eye on the weight of G the foal will appear; outside that ver6, in addition combine the different parts of the lines you will see nothing: whence as many will see they will be amazed, and not understand the reason for this
they will be able to perceive in any way. This au- tem clock redC conftrudum eflq, so demonstrated When the clock is vertical on the web it becomes fat; the veil of the primary is also turned heat will represent the plane; axis too fertile corner suitable for con- the eye becomes open folded into horizontal lines 'that the light of the Sun sa-em in the weight of G him nan fed the Sun in a circle, for example an hour G neceffario also in the line of the hour in the veil will fall, St. Coufequen- three fertile radiographic diffusion dia- passing a cloth screen on the wall into it it will cut the line which the ray of the eye makes while determining the line on the screen. Alas! even this meadow. If the axis of the material is cut it is allowed to be drawn from the mass, G, through the center H a fertile line of life in either direction the wall will be the border of the axis in the wall necdfario center clock, St axis ex the axis of the world will be in a fit of fuppofition. Since so turn back the clock on the screen too delineated (we oppose; the sun will fall shining, the shadow of the axis necelTarib into one St the same time line on the screen, St di I doubt the level of the objects. That's it A clock is painted on a screen and becomes nothing else. than the actinobolous pyramidal defection, fett rays from point G into equal objects. P d d d st tes 8o Artis Libet X. Magia art doubtless; but all fedfcions right pyramid, five oblique, fivere&s, provided that the parallels are int, similar pro they are partial, etc. demonstrated it is It is clear from Prof. i. the propofit of this Corollary. UX this is clear, for what reason the rest of the hour- types, use project circles ctions, in the lower planes fint For if the hours from sunrise and sunset or the parallels of wood with a polygraphic screen infcripleris, then the said method for you will yield you will have hours from sunrise, and cafu, and the parallel planes of the wood registered in a strange manner.
Of this place are all those clocks what is to be admired in Protheus notro Sciathe we taught him how to fight richly; which of these I would like to help you. Problem V. Aftrolabium Anacampticum, Jlye per ra long reflected, so covflruere, as a ring in the hand of someone's flatus, hours, pa rallellos S soles intact with bright lines demon- jlret: id efl, ring [peculiar so di- to place, as a bright ray complete parallel the lelum of the Sun, which given every day the Sun in he will write anything on the plane, project it on the wall ciat, ojlenden the motion of the entire prime mover tem: which, indeed, is a bright ray that does not move until the sun rises from its setting, daily, fid own fertile Jiiccefi he will offer the fion of the Jignos so conftantly, as radtofd all day, flve bright hyperholte, for example, projecting something on the wall motionless, poflero verb dte one degree af- eendijfe, veldefcendijfe with the Sun to be seen. Again in this bright line another (complaint so artifice we order, as in a bright line immovable fplendor afciticius from the rise in the occa the smoke advancing with the sun, for hours by feli e demonjlret s in which nothing indeed is more wonderful I believe that this type is covered. We have done in the Hebrew work, entitled Salomon Itatua pofuiffe in the forest of Lebanon, from whose eyes ra the gods promising the whole heaven derent: what a hiftoria most of the beans lam, many autu the magic of Itatua fuilfe they maintain: we are a purely natural thing, ex no other Magic of Light Shadow dijlfe we are not so much present, led something We will try to express it more intelligently in this place. First, it will be drawn on the screen of the intrument noftri mefoptici clock of Anacampti when, live reflected in the East, or Occi dentally, according to the rules in the art of Anacampti And let the shore be lame on every side: let him reflect the deep T ortivum, the S occidents the sun Dilpofito then intrumentum in fe- neltris S, T for that reason, as the screen in the pla it is not done in the meridian s then applied to the eye lo see where the hourly lines are in the transparent ve they will make a wall, through it Cta lines will give a clock that the beach If the rest of the same screen the stars of the sky, and the hours ratus, then by means of this the same in you will be nailed to the wall, there is nothing to be done, nor like a piece of glass reflected in the light of time ftrantia dilponas in both feneftrahac ratio in each left S, T, in the pile G, the log GF, two are placed annually large legments of cylindrical ipeculi, or co, so that their plane becomes in the plane ae quinoctial of these which e'cv fru- a small amount of Ipeculi agglutinated and it will be prepared clock. Sun then a laughing ray entering through the darkness cem in fpeculum T reflects the incident in opposite wall A; and the Roof he becomes cylindrical, he will throw according to the rules The whole art of Anacamptica a parallel case, in which the Sun is also mentioned, all day immobile s from the plane verb Ipe- with his butt he will project a circular light, through the light while the whole parallel in front of the meridian tem pore proceeding, hours, csterofque the left-handed circles Sole verb midday with pleasure, little by little feneftrae S will begin to be illuminated, in op the same will be demonstrated by the hungry wall: which re& It is scarcely possible to say how much wonder ex He mentions in the Ipedants, while they do not conceive, how the parallel sun shines all day motionless, after the verb day with the Sun gra while you may be seen as alcendilfe, or defcendifle the light of the plane of the glass through the bright parallel It is no other way from the rise to the fall, and fi be brought forth by any living thing, let him proceed in an orderly and consolidating motion. If the verb fegmenta cylindracea fpeculi, five I got a ring on the finger of the fattest man in the world next to the left side of the window you will be tired of whistling, you will already have that which The Hebrews marvel at the Salomoniacs so much I would say that the miracle of the stone whose ring is the whole of the first mobile dodtri- for he was in a dark place. Poblema Another clock, no less, should be Jlupendum to complete, with which the imperial group, which in with the hands of the emperors lens, in the plane of the shadow, the threads reflected in the light, and
hours, and bright circles, projebtosfmefty- lo, the shadow of the mcnjlrare pojjit It is a hollow cylinder, in which in the middle an Imperial group, as figure prs The magic of Hoyographka. fe fert, conftituut, who how con it must be done, it will be said at will. It was described according to the precepts of the book with the help of Tabfila? almu- the cantaro-azymuthic hour clock zontal, in the hollow cylindrical reli which of these will be thrown out, to be used improperly. you sing, and leave the azimuth of the leaf hours, other lines tion, and I would have the clock ready rate A ball is made of the segments of a circle cylindracei in the form of a circular sphere, and the colors will boil, projecting the azimuths; and the middle, taking the turns of the waterman, He will throw almucantaras on the plane: and it is done fphtera you will put some ax in this pipe. And the hours, and the rest of the circles ftrabit: first fit the clock, so that group north of the clock let him hold, turn the globe, and fire away while one of the clothes sticks in the plane muthi folaris, live, which is the same, he will wear let it be rightly diverted from the Sun, whose stick you have twice, let the light be reflected by the cloth within the plane to project the returned clock line. This at the end, where the circular line of light, which the equator reflects, makes the azimuthal li the neem reflected by the garment, there within the lines plains will be shown with a garden, then cir the ass of the elephants, whom the Sun at the same time obtains Note, however, at this point, the almucan tares should not be removed from the center of the ra, fed from the center fumpto in fuperficia aquinodtial For otherwise you will be done, er the diameter of the group Ra The reason for this is clear. Hifce so duly performed push, the greatest amazement of the onlookers to be born, to be seen in the plane of the hour, and the rest, with no veil, no shadow, fed with a bright knot, of bright lines circular, and return to the interledfion not rufi fphara for a certain reason. You will do the same in the aquinodial plane: where however, it is known that I will put everything in this place to be reprinted j otherwise the bright lines It would not be seen as a projection. This is the location all that horology, which in part. The problem of art noftra Anacamptica. y. we have delivered which you have not with an infinite number of other inventions they would run away Problem YII. A fantastic clock on the wall so de+ to write like the reflection of the Sun's ray in darkness so much, and close the windows, hours of the flutter with the windows open Jlike device with all lines the colors disappear in moments, walls at the end of any remaining lines. It is a closed room ABCD, to the left of F; G a hole, a fissure, through which in lo when fpecies of things come to an end: horo- But the drawing will be done in this way. In pun dto H. let there be a hole of its size which the task requires. Then I smoke with the intrument of our mefoptic, in his thee la diaphana horizontal clock in- as you see, it is painted. Then with the rod EF extended, so that the extremity of G redte pundto G, feneftra fits, ocu- lufque in pundto G is applied j delines-- and in the outer area, a convenient clock gium, next to the clock in the web then, with the same profuse reasoning, as a little It has been said before: I would have a clock confederate To continue this clock Profound magic, that is inconceivable to pay, so to work. First, I'm lame and every receptacle, outside it in place feu fpacio open KK long poles, vef string, reeds, or strings stretched in You will arrange the rays in such a way that the fpecies of these per G hole feneftra, five tip of the log EF radiating, the clock lines on the screen de- let them refpond from every side: where? omg nia with the help of this intrument of noftri meloptica You will be able to easily use the applicator. This even when finished, be a fanciful clock when you trust to see: the brokenness is taken away mefoptico, and lame feneftra lo fiu- bitb of reeds, of sticks, of poles which confusedly difpofited fpecies through the forums they will show G men radiating within this hour a log in which a bright spot ob- to make the wall of the receptacle; with the light pouring in
bit, in the illuminated hours not in real color fed by a profus fantaftico delineatas, maxi but it will show the perplexity of the fpedants. When the word has been opened in the nether world, behold, to and this fantastic device disappearing in a moment, leaving nothing behind and walls destitute of all color will leave Such a clock once upon a time Avenion presented by me to such a man lest he be seized with astonishment, that he might desire more I am so proud of this cake when you are cheap, so that it is not a bad thing D d d d sfil The Great Art of Lther Magic $arts I with the help of which it could be done, Perfectly All these things were done more quickly and more mysteriously they will be done, fi hours through the delicious reflection they are oftened. This should be noted qubd tantb will appear arundin difpo- the more wonderful, the more complicated. Ma cula verb lucida, five index, so be it. Glo a special bus outside the room, somewhere between the clockwork reeds are put on or it may be drawn, as if it were the line of the axis of the world he touches wickedly. For it shines from the Sun tus together with the shadow fplendent spot inside will show daily movement hours demon- smelling But all this is better from figu ra here faced will be clear. Corollary. Hence it follows that, by the same reasoning, by which we have drawn the clock, delete it all the rest also want to be rejected; lines which in lib. declared, as funtAl- mucantaratb, Azimuth Afcendentium, 8t Defcen of the teeth of the pawns of the Zodiac, Do the lines of the muum Goeleftius, and others, whose affections, and fufe in the cited book let's write it down, so that the phantastic aftrol The great wonder of all is the obfuscation of two things tion, five colors, and material lines can be presented Nor does anyone think so only in the fpeculation of fucceffum to have someone for this is their wealth make a mistake, try it how far from me the truth of destiny and he confirmed it. In fact, everything is easy at work because of the induftry, and the infrada patient They will be able to be brought back by artificer, fi ha: c three he came The first time was received the back of the ass According to the clear exhibition of fpecies on the opposite plane I extricate those from it hangs from the diftanting murfe in the deep crevice; G. Thirdly, the sun was born; for the higher was the Sun, so treacherous, all things came out they will be drunk Problem In the middle of the interior of the cryftall the hours so]de to write, so that no one can confide in the secret He began to conceive a plan, and everything the nature of the work will be interpreted. Method I TiyCodushnjufmodi operation VXin cryftal preparation, how so you will finish Pity the Crypthallian group, whom by an expert craftsman You will see to it that the women who wear them are fecundated, as the same again assembled, no division the fion in the group of fadbe the information Having done this, I differed on a different level
the hemifphasrium of the globe was inferred from Horolo horizontal, vertical, or polar and it becomes the Crypthallian group ABCD, two hemiphscria ADB? in the plane of jrfagid Horograpbicd, do hemifphserii ACB, the hours are inscribed, as in the ophthalmic plane LY father. In the Miffhserio ADB, let it be known that this clothes Let F be the locus of the fthyl, from which pound the fubtiliffima drill, let the crack be GF; long tudims of the vertical clock gnomon, fi indeed vertical in the plane of the hemisphere pheni ACB, deferipferis aqualis; become ver6 polare defcripfers, the length of the thread IF dug out from the center of the ball will give then When I finish this, I become a ball, as I said. when you have gathered it, it will appear in the heart cryftalli clock with one curn phthylo: where that cavity, which the fthylum refers to the shadow fua on the plane of the cry the hours of the phthali diaphanous are not otherwise, and, fi it would be an opaque plane, to demonstrate Because the innermost springs of the hours are dear Ceteres through the middle of the denfius suffer in the same hour bes by the obfervation method fol. traditional The clock is more polar to this group, as to any other, when it is done universally and easily there But offer the way by means of an intrument to bring down the same hours, see ci in a hidden place Mode
Hours of dejcnbend in a cryjlallino group. This artifice is carried forward by a mul aris fenders, fortunately, when due the dressing is carried out. And so it will be justified. Sedo Crypthallinum group in two hemispheres ria AD, take another ball L, cry- ftailinum of any size; from cavatifque in both group of major bife- di plane, concave fuperficies BC, of such a capacity that a ball of crytalli whether they contain exactly the same inlaid and the golden ball into circles meridians, asquinodial in hours you will depart as destroyers: therefore, with the ball L, In the two cavities of the BC, hemipphazria A, D, are thus fubtily Coagmented, lest let there appear any rashness of commissure; that which will be done, become a golden thread, which refer to the meridian you will run: but you will have thread, become a thread again I made another circle around with gold and silver the poles of the Crypthalline group are arranged. So when you finish these, you will have a clock the traitor, whose body is here. Located a globe near the breadth of the country, of the world let that four-part play be an hour you would like to know: turn the circle, fire me moving from side to side until um bra is more reda coincides with something click on the clock on the inner dial neato for here the hour of the day in quino- the dial will soon be displayed. But I hardly said it able, as far as this device is admfi it excites the reason, while it is not conceived, which For this reason that group was assigned to the greater one (hours taken from mobile meridian2 jtam conftanter through the middle of the denfius mon for the ball was almost twice as large within a greater enclosure, than outside, com- it seems strange to comply; not even di- ftortus et, fed for the middle cryftallinum on every side the quality of reproof is equal everywhere the matter in the middle did not fece to the earth which I am surrounded by heaven, as fig. F teaches will be confounded Corollary. It is clear to you, by what reason -ftema of the heavens, one globe to another bringing in, dida clothes, and many other things to the movements of the heavens fpedant as you can how the whole machine magnetieb ri poff, as the mold of the ball Angulos movement 'TMnot in glass Art Magna Book XT Magic can be done. The referents can be made ready. True with ha: c Thaumaturg noftro Mechani We will return to them later we did not want Mode In the interior crjjlallo hours infcnhere. If the verb mentioned in the cry- I want to show you what you believe in full, so proceeding Be it a Cryptallian cylinder, or a glass EFGH, in the center of which the hours this way you will present Let it be all over the bottom of the cylinder ABCD is futtilifiima with that skill, which the best Venetian craftsmen do they are When this is done, take the cat leaf the most fubtiliff tic, in which horology, and with what figures you draw s and this lo then through the crena AB, and both ad the bottom of the CD thing: a pound from the trembling of the phthyli it is smoked outside ma cylinder luper fiction So this organ fitted, So polished liquid, ho ras will be shown in the cylinder head heart by ma butt in the extremes luperficia fadam which means nothing can be seen teft, prtefertim fi I will flash the glass so the smelter the glass is closed as felenitic fo lyum, with the bell gio, piduris never again He is extremely passionate. Hac Certain things are prepared by the art of Venice
fphtersE folidse, within which dasmonunculi leniently depicted through the hidden crenes thus they relate, as if naturally incredulous to them, or they may appear to be impoverished by magical art. Problem Another watch is to be conjlituere} in whose place not even a number of diverging luminous circles imbued with colors, but one. only from them circles with a luminous hourglass capable of flaring Primb fiat from Almucantaro-azy- horizontal clock face; by which you will finish the anacampti cylinder with this garment. Let the Ipecula roll rice A, or from glass, steel, or from cat- adorned with a brilliant cylinder, in with which the paper roll, or some other kind the material is covered, such as a reading cylinder cea: Ipeculares EFGHI loiumraodo em let them deny Or make a more mysterious artifice
if he pleases, put as many rings on the cylinder things, each of which is made of different glass it becomes in color, darkened by mercury; or be made of glass you don't want to have colored, fpe material the opacification of the eyes becomes of a different color, de of which more will be said below. Hilcepera- special forces are imposed on this cylinder CBD plants in the form of colors, ha- and drink the machine prepared. Polite redig. i. therefore this cylinder in the meridian line hb- S jj' of the clock, so that the center of the barrel of the cylinder is from lo co flyli horologii diftet Ipacio femidiame- three barrels of cylinder i the largest with admi you will see so many circles on the plane for Jici, how many peculiar shoots have been in it a cylinder, all of different colors, first bright, fertile red, the third force I laugh, the fourth pink. Out of all however, this time only deterred the only one to threaten him, that is to say, who only from the pla let it not be lost, what was the height of the water to which clock was the collision that is to say, he will show the ring E with this garment: Gyra will wear catoptrics CBM, until the light reflected on the red line be projected, and where from these E a circle of light when he has done the last thing, he will show it there the hour requested: and the rest of the circle, etfi in this they do not let the snow to decorate, ler- yet they polish with power, be the particulars of Horolo gia adipfos you have broken down. Where did they come from? so many horologies, so many spectacular circles I did, that circle would show the hours, which it would differ as much from the horizontal plane as it would be the height of the stem of the clock, whose hours demonstrates (or potter. Polfet this marvelous machine the light is most conveniently presented within the fa a round brick of any kind bring here to Rome: the Pantheon, in whose portico a cylinder of such a size: craft, quan this would be the third part of the didi orifice. For the sun radiating rays in different colored rings, circles throughout the inner fabric projecting, a wonderful variety of color to imbue rum, with no one supporting him I'm a little bit of radiation. CHAPTER II. De fciathericisprodigiofs yfnaclajiicis3 Jive about collapsing through reframing clocks Of the broad fciatheric refradis and the luperque it was handed down in Arte noftra Anaclafti case Mfdgid Horogrdphicd. already on the same basis as the beginning of the Phylico-aftrologici fol. Figure also the golden moon; full; it becomes depidain in that place of the zodiac, I saw a picture ram z. lmi.
smelling, in a certain way from the common people with the remote concept r will be given as quanta mi I gave rabies from the foundations of Hujuftnod The curious reader knows them. Let it be therefore Problem X Horofcopmm prodigiofuminVtrea fphara so as to delineate, as first in the center of the aqmglo The shadow of the ball hung for hours in the opposite direction it stinks on the side of the glass, not feces and earth in the opposite region of the Heavens, my eye was on him it would reach: then hours patio for pria shadow hours in fe ipfia defcnptas oflen gives: Luria also eclipses the third part of the exam let nature present itself in glory. I'm working on this clockwork machine they must go The first ball it must be established in the center of the water that which We have taught that it should be done in lib. Art Magnetic part. I. of the Static Magnet ca. Secondly, the registration of hours in the group, the revolution that Iphum in faith; for which reason that it should not be done, ch. I know more Magnetic; it has been handed down. A third of the hours in the fphoro fuperficie defcriptio, which will be done according to the method of lib. p. i. problem y. through rich Therefore let ABCD be glass Globule G; From the shadow index of the hours the shadow of the button G, which you roll in fe DB hour; in the circuit of Iphoro delcriptanBB a horizontal circle dividing the owl from inferior hemlfphorium. In the hemiphorium you go tur the clock will be drawn with in all the circles of the leftists, they are prodigious by reason and method, which book, pro- problem y. we have delivered it safely: and it can be had what a magical clock. Ufos his will be here. It is situated near the line at o'clock in the limbo which, polished by the light of the Sun, will become like the rays of the sun the middle ball incident, the shadow of the ball buli on the opposite side of the clock, reli- each of the lines to the left on each side o
What are the rebuttals in which they demonstrate? and that strange and almost prodigious force should be, while the shadow of the ball through the middle liquids like an earthly shadow through me diffuse another day, in limbo it is given an hour to wait: in the proper truth revolution give, the middle of the shadow will also be an hour axis, which; the femper will retort in an hour; mon from the shadow on the edge of the glass case. For this reason the eclipse of the demon of the moon I open the fihmhcrm to be opened. Inscribed fciathe- demehjlrai with the head and tail of the dragon in Zodia- with the glass of that profuse reason, which We taught that this should be done in par. jsPro= Heliffem by which I foretold that eclipses should happen; shadow GE necefalario by that pound of the Zodiac traversing in the figure of the moon a fragment of the moon of faith; will present All these things so they naturally occur, as if one were lein heaven raptured to see everything before the ar be bitter But this machine It is very easy, and with almost no business it is done It should be noted, however, that all these things are perfect will be exhibited for a long time, fcuro has been polished in the bottom of the fire hole you are not capable of Iphorus precisely: for it is a shadow balls with a multitude of light due to thinness it is scarcely possible to see it, in the ipfi hourly lines the circular segment of the conical shadow at it must be stretched. Problem XI. In the yafe of a certain grandiose fufra aqudrti I would live with a boat with Jlatua to draw the fish in such a way that what hours, and the rest of the hook Jignet This device is requested from Art Magnetic book fol. Problem Sjren with fpeculo, fimul and Vitreo mdn He was expoflta, swimming in the center reftcxo-rcfracle hours will monflrabit. Olt the vessel of each shape AB, in cu- Yidefig. right opposite the sides near the height1 fpeculi at the bottom of the clock, near the front received in Alte Anaclaftica base That which shall be done, be Ipeculum in the hand of Sy- kidney piercing in the center; for the ray of So passing through that hole in the opposite part of the boat under the water refracted for hours; in This, however, from Ipeculus refracted-reflected j ver bo the reflection of the ray With this green reason through the magnet D, push the bottom of the shaft GD then it will be as if a woman were moved by water, so fe firmly, as Ipeculus lyre on the plane of the spring We have said in the process that the coast of Tical tooth problem, figure rat To whom the utmost care must be taken push, become a delightful Ipedaculum from friends run away and trust, hidden somewhere Sy- the kidney with the fat, and tied to the lolls j with which he smelled the dirt, soon from the rush in he will contribute to the center of fe, where fe is like a julfafi it will be yours, soon after Ipeculum pierced hours, then refracted, then refracted-reflected below the waters showing off I will eat Arth Magnae Book X. Mdgtci Lars I Jcoms-mus 'X5CV- O-ilO IV IProir. 'iPrel if Hor&grapbkd of the Magi. Sy Problem Horof'copius to write with that artifice, as m an infinite multitude of confluent lines, of sons and daughters, but this I will certainly throw into the chaos of things pure clock ordered, exalt this show the demon-firing race. where the top of the gnomon was shadowed for an hour, He will stumble boldly, he will offer to the blind in despair Which the matter, if it were to be handed over secretly, could scarcely be said a what a surprise in the onlookers he cites, as long as they do not polish to catch it, so much so a multitude of lines and lines afpedta has become j the greatest fane of the eye a joke Flat first machine CEFD, of which you bulus AB, containing a polyhedral glass clean when he finished the clock you will deny Seorfim will be drawn on paper in an hour logium vertical, utfig. teaches that then you will make each part individually which line number the hour; to avoid confusion, I wrote. This at the end, take the primb particles at o'clock. which he applied by eye to the tube A, the other spread by hand in the table CEDF, as per the hour was returned to those touching the glass; let them appear. Then proceed in the same manner pies particles an hour; the first, which thus app cab board; CEFD, as it was de- from the hour of ha
beat which he will obtain, be the extremity of this he duly joins the squares of the watch with the buckle, and the parts have been adapted to the parts; I don't care about the ca; tens hour lines You will work on the level of CEDF nor did you break the whole clock. Yes but give me back the work you have done, this it will be reflected through the tube A, ho The watch has shown that figure, which before the parts were made, he had, vi he loves the square. The outline of the sweep so you will adjust the clock. Alone the machine that was worn out and fitted, so that the plane CDEF becomes vertical in the plane primary: then applied with the eye to the tube light A, with the other hand somewhere in the plane here you will twist the gnome there for so long, until the shadow of the peak in the common pundtum inter- the hour of the feast, and the parallel of the Sun; for there the wild gnomon femper was fixed the task will be executed exactly. This dress you will make a magic clock, which from nothing through the tube, no infinity of lines and other pidtures confusedly inferred it will bring chaos. For with the hourly lines outside the pundtum A vifa, they report nothing certain, and let them lie completely differently, whatever among them to paint, to form any of them figures, any figures, 8t gnomons you will be able to outline; it is the same; for nothing All these are to be seen by the watch through the glass refradto: for let the hour be determined with If you have a mind to be a temple, you will apply eye to pundtum A tube AB: &cde suddenly all that multitude of lines eva- nothing but a clock? in corollary This may be a major to arouse the excitement, be made of something obscure in a certain room opposite, and from the Sun an illuminated wall, in which everything else in addition to the clock, it becomes depilated; through you bum clock Innumerable other Ledtor fagasc from this unique technique he will find you easily. On this account I proceed the clock together with the shadow clock didactic on any wall, suddenly re- can be prefented, it will be said in Steganogra- catoptric phia CHAPTER III. Of the horolahii catoptricis, fiye de mirifa-S a perfect display of clockwork. Problem To write with that art on the hourglass, as an hour passed through the shadow of the sun in him indeed, nothing beyond that which ho let him present the watch, and not even close to it to the finder, the figure should appear The clock was first carried horizontal together with the Zodiac gnomon co, I was a gnomon intrudtum Then he The game will be transformed according to reason, and me thodum fol. traditam: that is, in pla no horizontal is thus depicted, utfpecies The differences do not prove anything certain; fed in a small cylindrical era 'rwy they appear to have been recollected. Therefore, you will be pampered Hifce to all, to be adapted efftylus, this ingenuity A metamorphic figure will be located fruitful world's plagues, together with the cylinder draw and from another certain fciatheric ho turn to the clock near the hour known to you you will take any other gnomon on the plane metamorphic, with this art, as the shadow of the gno the common slaughter of the monis in pundtum to the exact time of the clock and this faith is firm to him. But he can instead gnomon and something else aflmnl, while its extremity is on the axis of the world falls: and I would have a wonderful clock, which was eaten by the Sun, thus as a part of the fpeculi exhibiting the clock, it is turned away from the Sun E e e e a plane ijirth Liber X. .XCagta Lars and the metamorpliotic plane from that Sun threatened, nothing but hours in the fpeculo it will offend Problem Another way is much more mysterious, to all bus impenetrables Where is the clock in the small cbm should be equal, not only from the horizontal plane, fed by any difcontinuous plane thus a repercussion, so that no one can conceive the meaning of the matter be worth it PRimb on the paper some fblidiori cylinder A bell is depicted wrapped around the dro gium horofcopium vertical ex deftinato puntfto, whose defcription I will support there is an intrumentum of the mefoptic fol. registered Record the clock take out the paper, which next to the lines you will pierce a rare doubt with a needle: or, that you will be more supported, having cut off the lingulas li neas horias, relibto only about cen trum fpatio, with which they can join together.
I pass this paper into the cylinder normally folded in the former position she was polished by the sun, and she was polished: and behold the rays of the sun passing through the hourly cracks in whatever you object to, you will be horrified They will paint the gius, because of the closeness, inae such as you and the planes are very different, and distorted. I will therefore eat according to the proj You will paint a little girl in two objects log And since besides the clock nothing is reprehensible in the fpeculi, to the artificer What is more and more to be hidden? like on a metamorphic plane between di- You'll be able to draw some timelines. III. Have a prepared Ipeculum cy- lindraceum, of the same exact size, Whose cylinder is wooden or papyrus it was: you put this in the place of the papyrus; and behold the faces of the clock in different planes transformed by some optical pharmolin in the fpeculo recollected hours ex- they will demonstrate Yide which from fol. We have handed over each to for she They will bring light to traditional things. Sty lus also, feu list of hours, as in pre will be accommodated by yielding. Corollary. From this method it is clear, by what reason show the same on any small plane ri poffit True when in the fertile we will deliver it more quickly, here it is a matter of great importance let's keep quiet Problem Horus catoptncum that reason so that I did not rush to a certain interval a determined jpatipunclum applied to the eye let them go together here. Olat first D G Ipeculum cylindraceum Vidtfi. the length of two spans from the palm any material that is supposed to be fu- for plate XT, square in the center tables Secondly, to this you will introduce another papyrus cylinder AE, BC, double of the former, who is wildly complex with the internal there, and have a wooden, hollow muzzle, broad B C, which; into a clepphydra, a vessel of fire hydraulic HI, the width of the muzzle of the cylinder dri papyracei B G almost equal, entering water will float on it. Moreover, in the vafis hy in the middle of the hydraulics let the diaphragm LR, by which dripped from the waste H, water little by little falling down into the lower part of the cat exoneret: whence epiphtomy in R, in- it is necessary to make a ftrud, or something more supportive Let it happen, fyphone curved LIM. Thirdly, where by open water, or by a typhoon egrefla juxta menfura hours (in for so many hours, the fire parts are in the middle of the cylinder the papyrus drus must be divided little by little it will fall, and put it in the hole, fire fiflura papyrus cylinder (which is done in the middle must, and by means of which the interior is filtered cet the time of day from the reference table He will be happy. Fourthly, the hours here with the art of incribable plane scraping; fuppofitte: prfi- m6 leorfim with any affumpto ipacio, fir it measures the diopter G, to which eye it is applied it will be seen at the next hour. Quintd, after filling H, Goodbye hydraulic water, so many from the center tab lay the leaders of the circles, in how many hours of the cylinder The interior of the building is square meters, see licet by describing in the first circuit ta bula; twelve o'clock next to the method while, on which fol. transformed figures we taught to paint: or even mechanics ce applying the eye to the diopter, de paint the number in the first circle plane horte which number is exactly in fpecu lo dignolcatur, the metamorphosis of numbers In the first round you have done correctly. This de- I write; open epiphtomy with water the cylinder will go down that way, until fpe- what is done in that place, when the reflection is of the circle, and every hour I took out the inscriptions for him he is very hungry. Then the lame epiphtomy in in the same circle the hour or that reason do not inscribe, which in the previous operation lest it be unfathomable. Thirdly, epiphtomy again open, the fluduanseo cylinder falls and so on, until Ipeculum is in that place, in which reflexione hora fpacii circular exci pere ere poffit: fic about the remaining hours face to go But if I choose this method it seems to be more laborious, the hours for that reason He was writing lingulas in lingulas circles, as in lib. part. propels pr#fcripU a mouse; or even by the same reason with which in the preceding clock I used the light; in the end he will be overcome by delusion. And here is the head of this clock. Im full of bells and whistles looking through mine rolls of papyrus
let the dioptra display the hour open epiphtomy of the hydraulic valley, allows to defend the cylinder: cylinder papyrus in the hole looking through dioptra femper will present the hour why rent so many clothes, as no one ever did conceive of the machination of fecundity in your mind really poffed; fexnper hour running no other nor anything else, except an hour in It appears to those who look at it through a dioptre bit Note at this point, the inner cylinder there must be a circular pendulum somewhere established in E: for fecus be fi, papy the race will not be able to have any free def- fcenfionis, afcenfionif Viam. of this Here is a rough experiment of the clock in Rome I am sometimes a fumpfilfememinis. That so much so that he pierced the eyes of those who looked on, So that I do not fall into a certain fascination, too many of the men of Philosophers are not natural the uninitiated often fear that this will happen. But we have given the reason of this matter in places quoted closely. As a true clock ma it may appear strange, it will be able to PQapponi's index of the papyrus is in the tabu la fixed length of cylinder DE; who papyrus index in the case of the cylinder, the hours will be shown: Cylin dro hour the same fpeculum bit In fact, the fciatheric hydraulic vafa ordinary according to the regulations in lib. delivered to increase the futility of the art they will be able to the various lines of the hours are broken, within G ho rte aftronomic#; within H Italian, Ba bylonie within femicycle horte plain tari#; within the K line of houses: according to the rules on folio handed down: have- bi-fque finished clock. jfeoli ftatnam thus you will make. From which And when the material becomes the figur# pr#ien- tis, with a staff live a certain rod, which, Sc winds and hours deinoltret, becomes intruded h#c has a matrix within the head within which the point of the axis of the cylinder is driven to make it fit for easy movement For thus balanced by any agitation of the air in he will be driven, and he will be strengthened in the battle, in which is driven The cylinder also revolves around the axis the fire becomes mobile. This is a fruitful cylinder The plagues of the world have been defiled, and in that place openly polished by the wind with the index I turned that part from whence I came tus fpirat agitated, there to show the wind will force But let the hours be aftronomic for you you would like to be shown, turn the cylinder this way and that until the shadow of the virgin tree was parallel to the prin#cife la becomes azimuthic of any femicycle: and will show the end of the shadow in G, ho aftronomic branch If, however, the bridegroom is married you are promoted in H, oftendet hours from or you, and occafu: be in the hours of the planets: K, finally, the columnar hemicycle of the house will demonstrate the left Here the pofiti hate only the chief winds: be the rest collateral whether would you like to infer The column will be excavated with as many hemicycles give, in which particular linguis something to aftronomica I give diri for belonging to be drawn This is indeed a mechanism in the green garden of some prince, pr#ter astonishment, a great one too will arouse pleasure in the fpediators. . On this account, however, it is equally within the domestics tes hujufinod machine can be made, qu# the winds fympathically demonftret, inThau tnaturgo, a mechanic willing to God, will be called Problem XVII. iAttronomiam fciathericamcolurmue to infer the cycles in such a way that column in- trusting, in the circle of the fimul, and the wind of Jpiran- tem, within cylindrical bemecycles ho ras, prepare all the other things then ojlendat video vi 'Proh. Let the cylinder CDEF, iEokisipfi impoli tus A, dolphin B, trusting, who fu- in front of the axis of the cylinder the verfatal is made with a rod with the trident, which and index of the winds, ho and it will be rare. On the circumference of the cylinder I divide the parts in hate, they put them in clay there are figures of the winds with names; in through the hemicycles CHAPTER IV. Of the Helioduftic clocks, Heiiocauftic Horology, five We call Uftoria, which of clay hours I kindle it with fire, and stir up fire, ho ram pr#cise they will announce: of whom with no one, as I say, has yet delivered I'll take their genius for granted and the operation of the digiofa was the first in lu I decided to give it a try. So let it be. E e e e Pro- Iconic 6p Q Magna Likr X. Magia Tars f. Problem Heliocaucal clock, Jie Solare to crush the fruit with that genius, so as not to leave it the light seemed to show some hours fed and the same clay fucccnfu hours with fire I make myself a fire pit, where I do not defecate and drink horology wheels fubftdio phonando, hours will announce 'Ria ad this clock in the first ne- There are headaches. First, cryftalliiia ball, or that fi is not poffi to be held, phphsric bowl full of humor Second, concha fphsri- ca. Tertib, a drawing of a clock in con cha together with the things to be kindled, and the carrying out of the Ac Joco indeed the balls of cryftallins, the bowl j the hollow cup, will touch i therefore where- fphsrica can easily be had, this indu- que jn diftta fuperficie burnet When, moreover, the balls of convex glasses fu- you will finish the hollow shell of the fuperficia; becomes they will all be concentric lines from the center of the pious glass to the hollow conchs fuperficiem between fe squales per i defines Euclid But lines all a from the center of the pie to the circumference dudts are among fe sharks: they are fubtradtis tur semidiameters pies a semidiameters conchs, all lines will remain from con hollow conch to hollow piis fuperfi cieam among fe sharks. Sedhs nothing else are, than the axes of the other cones di- I turn the movement of the Sun from pious fuperficia in the con hollow shells, fuperficiemprojedtorum Focus therefore on the end of the fast cones cauftricus, neceffand femper, everywhere Ftria: to the furnace of glass for you to melt take care of the glass ball as much as possible exactly round: for the same the fus will have the properties that the Cryptal ball Lina: for when exposed to the sun it burns so powerfully, as in burning, with a parabolic mirror why does it matter? Having therefore procured this, con cham done curate, five hemicycle vessel tan- ts size, like a glass ball in the center polished conchs, uftorii cone tip, five fo co, its surface is almost concave reach Then, in this shell, the bell You will draw a picture of any kind. Let it be for example aftronomic within fspace the helipad, that is, the tropics light, as in fig. a. icon it appears Let it be con cha fphsrica LMNO, in whose hollow Helio space is sketched in detail by showing off for hours which was to be demonstrated. How but it is already said that the sale is to be made it is f) epiU Vitrea ujlione. So we ordered the clay to the horodixin cautticam neceflariis: So in the work and you will carry out the design. single It lines the time from tropic to tropic they are so fubtily exfcinded, that yet la the rims should retain some thickness. This When you're done, look at the helipad the sun's running rallel J where indeed he kill the ras, there the fuel from the cone when you are ready, you bring down the most difficult things. In Convex verb conchs fuperficie to the same dromum, with the aftronomic hours, those ratio-pUn&a are applied to the canals of so many canals The case is made from a sheet of iron, as many as the name the country has introduced units of hours; Ho lce cananiculos like a mortar I will give it filled with dust: mortar dust bells are also affixed: that everything to the wonderful Horodixin necef- faria "We have mortars here, and no canalef we have painted, and then we have not worked out the drawing we would make the reader's mind perplexed and also because he is working on this one, not too much we would seem defcendifle to the particulars, in- to be left to the genius of the artist we married Why the method and reason let him speak only infinitively with words. than in lib. professor i. we taught A becomes a glass ball filled with water at the center rs placed, so that lpfa refpedtu the Earth it represents heaven. R becomes the Sun, whose ray is the ball penetrating are united in pundto B, so that pundtum caufticum uftionis B, prscise in let the hollow conch end in fuperficia: I say this pundtum bright sunny hours demon- it will burn, not the feces and the rays of the Sun through a hole in the didtam fphsric fuperficia impiffos, or the tip of a shadowy cone in the di- dto clock For with the cone of rays BAR uftorium should be fixed, but the axis through
those who lib. z. match professor in By the art of the Anaclaftica he is brought back to the house, and unrefrigerated, as you can normal whenever a cone from the Sun is formed, he will do the same thing, which the sun's unchilled ray, or the shadow of a bee cem phtyli entered into the fphsric fuperficia a tooth But hsc on the clock passed the hour fedte demonftrant Therefore, the focus of the cone which was to be proved. Vfus horarii [auJUci Qltuaat first magnetic machine with a glass ball exactly in the center spinning, supported by a thin support from the Sun put also with fuel through which the Sun will pass through on that day, far are you it will be done as soon as the focus of the cone ex the ball jhia can put in al tari con- diBa is horrified to be lit pojjint stegano graphics EjfeBus are increasing starches fct rabolics Horographic magic. the ball is thrown and reaches the horizontal line it will start, in a moment the car will be fueled pat: verily gunpowder and gunpowder, or filled with mortars, to use the same fo gently next to the kindled coals, the dust he will raise it into a flame: this, the mortar grafted, it will eat as many bombs as there are united tes hour running (which focus ipfe coni between the time lines shows) will contain In order to become the focus it runs into the line of the garden poft south; behold, the coals kindled will kindle the dust adjacent to it by a small canal Here are three fucceflive mortars he will eat the bomb. As many bells and whistles the bull of the mortar was impoverished tus impadtus in bells, prater bom ox three diftindtos, as many fo- the hour of the dawn will show. Of this kind I exhibited the Horodidic machine mouse with so much pleasure follow wonder, that no fpedta- to find some wonderful occafion pra3 let us rejoice CHAPTER V Of Magnetic Horofcoplls. U A M VIS lib. Art noftra Magnetic fufe of this kind of ho- We would have treated them with gnats, but nothing they will repeat here the things that were handed down there while we were married j fed a certain newly from me found in this place because of the great Magnetic rays have an affinity for luminous rays I wanted to propose an analogy mouse, don't do anything in that We would be seen as a prodigious daughter. Problem Totius's first mobile teaching is unique magnetic needle demonfiring. A kind of princes are more worthy to be presented to men among other things Cafarea for the relaxation of the mind j that feparata of aftronomic matters you wish to delineate the most beautiful fpeCtacula, this also propon- lchemata; cujufmodinos while I was married. here we ate four and the tongues fpacia A, B, C, D, for fchematurn clays assigned to the drawings. If according to method in lib. Artis noftra Magne tic cap. within fpaciumA, Italian, the Babylonian clock through the tables you will decrypt; fi again in fpacio B Aftrono- flash in planetary hours li deny in D, finally, a family of houses circles; in others, the signs of the ascendants fchema, according to the method, as we said in book Magnetic Art chap. Probi, r. f. the traditional cfelineave- CoYollanum I pX this is clear, at the given hour he loves For this reason it was given in some altar hour, candle, and lighted lamps viz. led to fire Qorollarium II you will have a fchema, one needle of which is NM balanced in the center P, all given in the appro- uiutaui uuiam wcvuu. un ciijuixxj. xur vuu. r caught by the fibi, when by the rope, when by lu-: Paa's demonftrabit. For delineate cem, they want to manifest; with which all things are accomplished here, and that capula included, rmqualhi in an oily color, which inner hour is let it rest. If the sun-polished cup and turn it round until the shadow lines in the glass cover drawn at o'clock. coincides, he will show you the needle in the mold the claim of the fiftieth case. A further sweep ufum apodixis quares in Arte Ma genetics in the cited place. See figure Ico- nymphs pAtet also, by which reason the two ad con- ns For two hours I was with the secrets of my mind. let us advance more quickly, let them be the work of others We will not stop the bus. With this help elsewhere
we bring forth a feast, which is given to us, and by the movements of the limbs of the whole body He is able to do what no one can do with the strength of nature He believes that he should dye the pofle. Corollary II It is also clear from here, not a tan ball then the glass, fed fpecula turbinata parabolic, as well as hyperbolic, focus on projecting many paflis and poles hidden, and understood by no one henfis effedtibus carry much more perseveringly with force pofle However, the application of these with the support of the sous, as Ssingeniof Ledori You can buy the same magnetic needle. Ql word at the end with the help of a magnetic needle taught you you would like to be shown twice; I will tell you that mon in the center of the figure at the right angles, of any size, inherited. Shade for in the shape of this first magnetically fi- your- Mriis Magm Lihst X. Magia Fors L Tconijhms NtvaA- Jhsla&ii iavtnth grant you the parallel of the Sun he seeks, there a fimul hour in each fpatia will demonstrate So the same shadow m Ipacius From the Italian hour, and Babylonian cam i in B aftronomica i in C planet- riam; in D the left house, which Sol He was at the same time. From which it is easy to pa tet new aftfolabiornm fciathericum defctibeodomm reason, from no one, that I will, still delivered; what do you do to the reader We leave d to be further developed. Problem X X In plan ano Mer tkalitdem to be designed DEiineetnr in the cylinder ABCD Uranus in the manner described in lib foh jyo, we taught. Let it be game Magic Right V S normal to the cylinder in each instead of o'clock. Then the magnetic needle the top of the cylinder is placed j on the moving ve- Problem Machine magnet with crush in which the Planetts were planted in clay bowls Cluji hours of government derriorijlrent in days, Videfigur Icenifmi. In this place I have discovered a wonderful technology mus j which clay days who Lamented he governs, whom he directs into human activities have made, what in plants, stones, He preyed on animals, secretly, and I received him with this movement, he was clearly offended. Take the bait bowls, according to Arithmetic proportion even smaller ones, and smaller ones, as here you see s whose tongues; have an opening as much as it sends to a magnetic sphere I tend to make it narrower, wider; ne verb fi fi li gluttony; filled with liquid, too heavy they are broken up, and they are cut off from each other they must, as you see. Then the spoons and bowls in meridian circles, that is ho the rare Ipacia, with which tongues rb cylinder foot pnnflo D, infigaturadbu! o5 pwpomontfos, and magnet-feto tic said elt, unyielding, and balanced. Within the tentacle of the whole machine, or a hydraulic valve, or a rotary one you put, which; a bowl below the foot; val perpendicular Itylus fubtiliffimus DX which functions as an indicator of the hours. Therefore, the clock is here: Polito cy the sun shines, and the needle turns quietly cylinder from both sides while VS Itylus shadow parallel, and aa should project a straight line; Itylus DX, in common slaughter, azimuth point parallel to the Sun, hours re the liquids of the first mover. Note, however, gnomon DX femper lying on the plane the needle, the fire of the south should be strong, so that ex tremum gnomon X, femper lub fagittse a diculum from the bassoon B brings back the demilfum: ni and the hil is destroyed, which is diftautia h in the cylinder the gnomon is missing, when it is normal in the common paral of slaughter the hours of the Sun, and the hours of the hourly lines demonftfet Corollary: You put which; below the foot of the praitfe vali while the magnet Y contains the fufra fe, the space of a few hours, so the beach, that the axis becomes parallel to the horizon. For the machine X, together with the magnet Y, the axis of the magnet is parallel to the plane of the plane bowl A will go round; at the same time magnet A will move magnet B; here C; ball verb C, ball D; fic com often one will move the other to either side lastly, so that all the beads are magnetized fpacio hours let them complete the curfew of those who were taken. Today glue the beads the rum of the Planets distrusting them. with radio I read in my hand, which I hold every hour at home
he will demonstrate the planets in the water to be straightened And the planetary hours are thus in- From these it is evident, that all those bodies which Icribes with clay bowls: A rem niTidnviuinc nvivimne Vitr J dib. Chapter We produced, Magnetic to escape, be a polished gnomon of any kind on the o'clock line and the magnetic needle in ver tice of the bodies, and the gnomon was sharpened from the side correfpondente, utdidumeft, hours, re- draw some lines on the body I do not believe anyone who is magnetic which foundations he had not first completed, this new magnetic horodixes; system I am not able to perceive it: whence I do not deserve it we store among the prodigious clocks, here the greatest Romm becomes fifteen, mini mouse nine (for we omit the minutes here) equinoctial verb hours; Already that divide the whole bowl into You will draw, for example, in bowl A first fpacius heliodrome: Then let them count there from the hour of aftronomica on both sides fe at least an hour; with tropical, care in the tropic 'jk, on both sides in the secino- diali, by three pundas terminating li do not bend; they will give the horizon So the dispute of the east and west: Deniquefin- throats hofce three bows of the tropics, and asquinodial in what parts are divided Eff give If, therefore, the prni&a were tied in bows if you join them, you will have a horolo gium of the cruel planets together with ho clock aftronomieo fpacio ver6 heho- the trees of the Zodiac were ascribed to the tree, or fcala menfium In addition, the planet hours Inscribe the lines in that order, as at o'clock. planetary, xax. aftronomica; o'clock ver6 planetary hours d. aftronomic let him rest. Characteristics of the verb of nets in the dominant hours z. fupra, iib. Art Magnet match c. iprobl. traditionally, with spoonfuls of a bowl they will reply in a few days. It should be noted for as many bowls as many days so that bowl A is the first and largest of the regime rqonftrando of the planets on the Sabbath travels: Mdgu HorogrdpUcd. Viat: The second rulership of the planets on Jo- auppication. And there they are, some of them On the third day, on the same Tuesday: Sunday, the fifth day, Friday: the sixth day Wednesday: the seventh day of Monday: May he come to everyone with the magic of magnetic magic, therefore, rightly there, with this device, where this kind of thing has been treated from the beginning it will return YTT we will use Ufos engine. A machine with a bowl should be placed in this system lest, as aftronomic na sa. planet let them obtain a medium heat in the bowl. Then the first mobile XY, to a certain ho the aftronomic branch was raised and excited, all the potsherds of the bowl shall be moved together put on, you were distrustful of groups, of his staffs in the circumference of the bowls hours ltrantes; of which, however, the true government it denotes that the leaves are broken, which; current inscribed with the name of the day; the bowl was included do So let today be the day of September Mercury: I want to celebrate which planet rules net hour aftronomic; and the gloaming Bulo injuring the name inscribed, ray I will give you an hour. and next to her racterem g. So I will say Mercury here an hour to drive Let it be again on the same Wed The court inquired on the of June, the folftitial day while the government wants at three o'clock aftronomic noon: See therefore where the circle is at the hour; the third; , which he showed in a bowl the fourth, live will make the tropic s, where that you will find the planetary hour with the cha- radtere of the ruling planet. Let it be finally, on the same g day folftitial day. De at three o'clock in the afternoon the government to search for wool: see where the circle is the third orator, whom he caught in the water in the fourth bowl, live demonftrat, fe the tropical cetacean; for there an hour plainly tarry hours aftronomically correfponden together with the ruling planets chara&e- you will find out. So the sun is parallel to anyone running through the sun, the planetary hours together when the ruling planet is registered with the same you will find If on Sunday the word government is clear tarum feire delideres, the same speech ra you will proceed as in the previous example
plow, and put it in a bowl for every current day assigned to the rulings of the planets You will find lUBmh hours. If the effect of the planet incompetence the reigning rums with wonder, what every few days, and hour you have to choose between moments push the business So you will find three surprising things. At the beginning of the aftronomic hours unifor the demonstration itself in clay pots issue Second planetary hours. Thirdly, about a certain divination business and human activities To conjlruere a magnetic clock, in quo Lac er tu! a, or any other animal a small piece of paper, hours, hours giving, s? Defcendencio, jpacio hours the rum demonflret See fig. Iconifini TUJufmodi machine among others, which Jt would like to arouse admiration fpe- Cators, often drowned in my Mulas I give adorned with that artifice, as the Lizard la in the column and by doing so for a living It demonstrates that almost no one becomes a person who moves Let the lizards understand the reason. For na tural movement advances furfnm, deor- fum, and yet there is no adh of any thing; not which is ridden on wheels, nor is it admitted from the outside supported by nothing; you'll get rid of it soon where he was reburied in the column, an hour it will repeat itself. So this machine this you will adorn yourself with intelligence. Let it be in the form of a strainer for square hollow receptacle ABCD, as fig. teaches: in the midst of which in a thin and base rule of ebony or a thin plate, it is likewise, a wooden suit ris EF s within this column; hollow for you will fit the strongest magnet, string it with genius, like the face of a magnet's axis it becomes parallel to the magnetic field, and the same distance rem EF bronze rule slightly fuferfied he shaves; the first thing to do was to the lizard to move, and to animate the requili. Again, like the Lizard hours, the Lizard hs- he afeandat, and afeandat feipfa, and horaf roitiffi He will show you, so you will do. At the top of the column face AB hydraulic wheel hours Ipacio's trowel round, wooden lite ra V, and let this wheel have conical spokes in the circuit firmly inferred, as the figure I give cet: but the waves at the bottom, the thinnest fo fint branch This wheel, so prepare rata, the four axis of the pole around the it must be brought down through the vessel AB; and the axis of the string it is to be folded around, at the end of which ma gnes, of which we made mention a little before, must be bound; who have a double duty bit for I weighed the wheel inside the vessel AB revolves around fspace in hours rum and by defending the femur within the strainer for a square with one fecal needle lybeam through the middle of the lizards. body la he will pull the tranfa&am tentatively: and it will be seen lacer- Magna Arti Book X Magic (Part the laccrtula fponte fua acendendo, de- spending hours in a row, fummaintuen- to demonstrate with wonder: for the conic in the wheel V di-circumference fpofita, immersed in the water I attached the weight of the magnet to the gravity of the emer The nations will fill up the water that has been raised, through fo the small branches of the ground, I went into the field whether and this in effect, and so the wheel fpacio hours the female will be around. If so on the outer side of the AB face G the hour index If you were able to do this, you would see the Lizard that Lemper an hour in a plain column; as often as the hourly ray stumbles, inscribed in the plane AB I'm a real fan the ra prophitia will bring you better, than either many twists and turns of words; then she fill up Problem To break the clock, by which the Dove Flying in the air, hours in the same square the column will be demonfiret. See the jig In this device the same co hollow square shaft; axis only to three fingers: to which axis from po- a string is tied around the lower part, in The ends of which are bound by the same magnet, as first Another part of the anterior verb axis dula, the fire should be tied around the wire, when then it can become futile and thin, I saw the most fubtiliff feric wire, as from a distance I could barely breathe. Let it also be in the mouth a column; a hidden tube, within which ab a thread rolled on an axis, together with an annex any weight should be defied. He must au
the reflowing of each string; so intently of gravity, on which the magnet depends, than of the exterior, from which the dove is made into one and the same part. These having been duly completed let it be from the futtiliffima paper Columba N, per whose body is made of steel the needle is pierced three times; tail green co the loin on one side was the most fubtiliff, and scarcely a flexible thread is tied: from the other par te, in the ipfo perpendicular, and in the region of ma hid the stones inside the pillar. And it will be done so that both strings go in the same direction, and In a few moments, it was rolled off the axis. Co lumba N roftello h. internal magnet handed down, let it now, with an equal tenor, now let him descend, all free hanging in the air. For the intensity of the stone was brought, while fe the same for the net of a perpendicular thread he is not able to join the bound, in the middle hanging air, in the column hours, now afcendendo, now decendendo, most important He will demonstrate to the amazement of the audience. It will increase denjonftration, fi table EF it was of peculiar material; Here are two of them doves rushing in the middle of the roft the air will be seen to compete. Look at the picture branch, which; It will explain exactly everything. Problem De Horodix Sympathica, as "Botanics? Cfive animated clocks. Agna is controversial among the authors, lVJ. to give a ympatic clock "Poffit, that is, leaves hidden by force and end hours by any artificial device He will show that some people are doubtful about the matter mant: some profane men reprove. Not at all those who so abhor the matter that even close your ears at the first propofition let them be seen We are holding the middle road we say, that any matter should be given at all in the fulunary world, take it to the Sun let him have sympathy, let him be confounded the motion of the Sun, and the magnetic field of the wind balances the Sun indefinitely. If you go I will divide this matter into equal parts a ball was attached to each one, and in the cent a trove of water; balanced, polished from the region of ftylq there will be no doubt that the immovable perfedte the hours of that clock, per he would demonstrate with his head: which; everything is funnier oftendi in lib. The Art of Magnetic Art chap. on Botanical Clocks, to which I read when we left Ledtor curiofus, where matter determined, and manner of working, and to a great extent the history of the whole; the Jews he will find it written down. Wherefore also a botanical clock con- ftrui poffit, citing instead of the Magnetic Art it is a long time. It is a question of doubt with an animated clock, whether it is an ani it is difficult to give something, because the hours are turally demonftret? At least look at the Egyptians then the genus of cynocephalus They taught the matter during the middle twelve years the equinoctial time is repeated in two hours it indicates that we should find a fuse in the Aftro- hieroglyphic names Some affi- tt5. Some American animals also know approx. , which; it takes a long time to pronounce certain words whether demonfraut; like an animal, which They call it laziness. In the parties The bus tells Olaus that Lari is a certain kind of man by them, iftis menfis, by which the Sun of one, du orums, three, four menfium fpacio per they enjoy lying down, to show the hour Add the rooster nature has given me a certain theme the knowledge of pores and follicles and movement, which he will demonstrate with a morning song. Innumerable hu the right of the meal, which the Authors nar rant, all of which are fusible in other works let us proceed. And indeed of the dead r ites. .Magic clock iMgU turn your anger towards the Sun forever bant, see Mechanics noftra hiero- glyphic, where an unheard of thing founder of the Egyptian philosophy, de Memnonia, Serapidis, Iphidis, we will produce clouds. One more thing The most curious minds are confounded by entwined with this torch then Eft that clock, a kind of in fcypho presented, the practice of which is this. In a few hours he will know the ring he releases his grip on the body who soon rested here a little, widely with the rivers of Icyphus illifii, to them the hour of the thunder it is said to denounce Which fi are true, which they are told; Why am I here?
none at this hour rather than high determine ram? why rather cam, than Italian, Babylonian, or Does it represent a planetarium? with every hour the distribution of rum is made from the infatuation of men, And it depends on human freedom of choice. I hear the movement of the fanguine, and the chicken ly- He stirs the phoenix and the phoenix to the movement of heaven then, to stem this effedum. But I ask here, who is a philologist as, the movement of the fan was lifted up by the movement to square? A feather of the fanguine is also in the nerves of a watchmaker, who ever learned by experience? And indeed, no council, the mud phase was in microcofmo fpacio hours to mo then to finish the heavens: bit? who has so many and so many strokes, not more nor does it determine the source of the few? Why in tan then, not or or Does he do it? When I see that everyone is dumbfounded at these things, There is no one who is so prodigious I will find it possible to attach some It is deservedly returned to me as a joke: no for those who, while no natural reason would be of any use to them, at mo and of the earth, and other foolish beliefs of faith they are not ashamed to send, as long as they pa- I was incredulous in every way a crowd, and a crowd of ignorant men; let them pervert I am the worst of this ex I remember the ordeal with fumfift; Fed femper unruly fucceffu But why not me fed to them the folly before the effedtum? start Here they find that they are weak in their husbandry. But I wonder I am not so weak here in natural matters judgment will be more discerning than with the pious I am the worst of those evil-doers whether fuperftione, while the hujuftnodians I have such easy faith in the laws of madness bent. sufficient to carry out the same They are thought to be eoller; vanity lane intolerable to them I say, therefore, that I may soon make myself ready; the clock, by no means natural, was fed Take this effed from the number of those who I do not know whether it is implicit or explicit they are bound by the pact of the devil; whose kind also all those limits, which; no when have a connection with natural stems, of which there is no reason based on nature can be known I will come with this kind of thing the type of clock in the Magnetic Art of destiny taverimus, thinking that Ium in it here again refuting the time char and to spend Problem On rotating clocks. Do not be curious about this Horodixian doctrine if anything is lost, this place for me It seemed to him that the clay had a kind of vengeance the rums of the organs, which are the various kinds of wheels add each other in proportion to the complexities They demonstrate the hours of ptation, composition. But when this material outside the light um bra to see the border far off the mouse, lest the uninitiated should transgress the bounds of our knowledge we would see her in another work, whose title is play, the nature of things animated by machines, it animates leu Thaumaturgus Mechanicus, conful we have decided to postpone it; in which the tower of Mt of the watchmen's watchmen of the ends, and of the wheels to heaven in proportion to the motion of the bodies, in which to be sure, in addition to them, by the artisans I have never noticed any of the bodies raised tus, also of all natural things movement, wheels, nerves, ropes for example? we are able to present the conformations of nature it will be delivered abundantly: wherefore, let God be your strength He was so generous, Ledtor was curious about the whole thing increase the nature of things animated by machines it will be contemplated with the pleasure of a weak soul. So this is a little about the prodigious clocks In the meantime take it, there is no doubt but these things like a fertile woman as he went, he was infused with his wits, in the most abundant form at the time of natural things I was meffe germination Clocks P Px Mechanics MANTISSA M F A T I O as if they were given a certain weight to them in any way, some fatisfaltoncm I was afraid to give it. I therefore add that these fi from new mo the gift of making all kinds of horology, no Indeed Sciatherka, fed by water, air Eff lArtis. Magna Lihr X Mkgia (Part L take out the elements, such as 'Mechanic, which I will waste time in the windings of words
let him exercise his genius, let him have it, and let him not be in the future imperfect. Technafma I to turn the hydraulic clock in which by defcenfum and afcenfiim water by a ball of water floating, an hour long neither of them are shown. Flant prirab two channels of glass three i or the qnatuor of the palms of the rujufmodi lunt KG, IH, who are confirmed by the fuper bafin GH. Locis G St H. fuper bafin verd GH, another channel of gold is directed into the depths chalc o6to palmorum, St becomes KCD. who it is joined in C, to another channel of gold Chalco CG, St CH: which two Canales so they are dilapidated, so as to make access to the water; flow you in the G H canals KG, St IH. Ca- On the other hand, the InCD channel is longer. in gmentetur vafi AB below in M, co MXYD will be lamented. with the rest of the bafi. But here Canalis should have brought two books epiphtomy, feu two keys, one in L, and the other in M. for he is fervently afcenfui of water within Canals, KG, IH. here fcenfui the water will boil within the deep canals. Poftea Canales KG, IH, are divided into twelve parts, that is, in twelve ho shave, as is evident in the figure; were charged as you see, the natural then you have the finished, ornaments everywhere who will be able to join at will. Araxis Horologii From Kte you will steal all the hours fpa- Xcia, exabtse Clepfydrse, or even fcia- benefit of the theric clock for the flow of which, which through the vessel AB while fe falls into through the Canal, and from here through the Canales CH. open with the key L, precisely water only afcenfu fuo grows as much as it is fpatio of one hour between twelve and productive, an hour within the Channel KG. IH. When you have obtained this fi, then water or defcenfu fuo in the hours of showing in swimming in the water for an hour showing, in both canals of glass. As the verb will show the hours by the end of the water ball so the face s is closed with the key L ape ries elavem M, 8c water per defcenfum It will take hours. Tslam vessel AB, first it will be filled with water that passes through the middle of the Canal vafi AB, connected by N, in L. by epiphtome, the fire will flow drop by drop both Channel GK, HI dendofurfum: rit in twelve s as for ten hours montftret, you will open the epiphtome, the fire is high M, claufa clave L. And fic per defcenfum He will give the hours, in the order in which they first came; Water verb by M, epiphtomium will be discharged tur in the vessel which, by another it will be filled, and it will be poured out it is given to the poorer. AB Caution But you shall procure, as water, which It is poured into the machine, it becomes the purest, and removed from all dregs, otherwise easily the body would be destroyed by excrement. Water through The lembic would boil very well for this business, or even cremated wine. II. Keys, let them have five epiphtomies the furthest opening, inftar of the fetus, as do not snow drop by drop through it, let the water flow down, and in both channels they must be equal; to HGeographic magic. TSf co-horum for the flow of hours you will finish it, as the dust has gone. menta verb qnae addi poflhnt, Artiftasin- they are to be commended. Such a horror We propose to everyone Foreigners, who fpe&at my mufie Q they come of floating globules of water in each place, in each place, the Sirens, the or the females are put on a pot, made of wax, or other lighter material confederate images: . Technafma Aquatic Clock, which Horas kl to the outer index. Flat Machine CABEG which in PQfub the shape of a square, or of a cylinder with cave, as you see here. And let the vessel be cy- lindraceum, woody letter PQDE pl whether water From H. verb in place of epiphtomii, fi and the key, let the water fall drop by drop into the vessel another marked with the letters DEFG. that in Epi to have the necessary discharge of the jacket a barrel; From P. verb, Q. two are erected arms, five square, five round, ad the height of the palm, which is in the shape of a log there is the letter of the MP. QS. Hifce two bras to whom, in the extremity of M&S tranfverfim Scytala MO, or to liberia the copper wire made the matter easier to move not yet fubtile, fed somewhat craflum
8c in the middle of which a circular dia is fixed a meter of the middle finger, or more, enter which wire; fire cord twice round vatur, the axis of which is within the matriarchs M S arms as easily as possible rolled around: Turricula verb eifuper- hungry ACB in addition to the ornament almm it has no smell. Hifce polished, last tate fcythalae, the axis of S. is fixed with an index, which hours in the RST time zone. he who is fixed must cry, and the prostrate must be immobile a lawsuit; And you'll have a machine to watch for hours I will finish the ftrandas. It is followed by a storm. About the axis MS or the circle K. is circumscribed a wire, at the extremity of which I. a fat ball is weighed, in the other with the extremity of the thread perpendicular to L, weigh however, the ball is lighter. This peradroj this padto index in the outer circle ho it will rarely take hours. Fill the aging cylinder PQDEa' water, and the thread several times around the axis the cat, to which the extremity is attached; or by force three boats; in the same way it is used in conjunctions fi wet mouth you see, a well-to-do group that you allow the water to flow freely, 8c it will be done, as the effluent water PQDE, through epiphto- miupa H. guttati nj a group fubereusunl I enjoyed it Jfatts MagiU Lihsf Mdgut $an I. xms the water descends, pulls one left attached and this at the extremity of the axis S, mm Icytkalam MO, the live orbit axis index will move together. This will happen in the meadow A group of hcrarms to be a fool of the current hour at any rate Finally, you will make a list, then the group xas day uo&fcif hours in order, he becomes a to play QtufflLe in this Mkchind. It is the first, as the first on the list of greedy people the beginning of any one in the hourly circle If they have fallen, let the water flow through the epi& Mium H. difpicias, whether to cut off the list of one hour aa the other, the interval deter threatens which you have done properly. Horolo I will give you the strength of the world. Second, a large group, five boats one must weigh more heavily than the other the wire at the end of L afeo i Si verd boat JfCagut it becomes lighter, as the pMtab in the extremity Chords; I have affixed it, you will impose something on him you will make the lead, so that this pact wavers acquire a firmer confidence; when the weight of the thread is attached to nothing else, let the snow make you a fat ball or a boat neat, lest the fcytal hearts be enfolded so And this kind of clock in no- with the Mufti of many years as well It was exhibited Made easily from by this description, if I am not mistaken, he will perceive what an exact hand to my perfection hourly machine required. If the verb fioroiogiote$: us wants, as in la you need a lot of PD. Sz QE. demon hours ftret, that will be done, be the explorers of the hours first fpacia in the said farewell near oblervatiotiem indicators in the horary circle, menfures, deineffi in the list of unpolished ships, which; it will be either of straw or of twine, and this will go You are hours on the inner side of the glass Enter the order using the index in chronological order he will show his ass. countless discoveries here let them add poffem, led them in the nor to be led by the ingenious Attilia; 'com I send (Jijfffr Tccli- JQ2 jtrtis mcigna Book X. Magic (Part j. Technaphma III Sympathetic minfic clock genetic comparison from Mufao cheriano l. Flat Machine, trust the one you see here hourly columns P. QSt RS. outside ctum, like PR they are fixed with a wooden stick; and the column is fint; hollow, in the middle by a bipartite diaphragm; in X. which and the column; turn the clock nature, which is driven by weight; I promise at one end of the string, a strong magnet ap is hung, from the other end of the string one weight, yet lighter on the other; And it shall be, that large attached strings within the first dia- Ehragma difcrimen of the rotary clock enefication, or a thief, or a deorfum movement in the exterior fuperfiCie in the hourly space, show the hours in order by the lizard, or a crab, made of light paper, and a needle the steel fixed to it, the magnet confederate for he was buried inside with a rotating clock the movement will draw poft fe near the strike of the hours, a steel needle, a lizard, or can inlaid with paper; And this is done by force
the lizard must go forward, to everyone with astonishment, cumabftradta again in place -fuo apofita to stick No other property held and in one column tnics, on the other italics, or another hour will show the kind of rum. LeCfcor confutes I offer a magnetic art noftra, 8c The Book of the Prodigies of Horolo giis, and the manner of conftiting the hujulmodi the clock, he will perceive clearly. In the middle of this ftrudfcura: three groups v let the three columns of wood be fastened together, in which rum in the middle, a ball of glass, or ce the guilty, to whom bring the strong fruit of the magnet tur, and an angel in the limbo of the horary ball showing hours; as the verb globulus fic do: Above Column NO. clock it is supposed to be wheeled, wood cha smooth plate movement; Above this alarm clock A strong magnet is supposed to be placed, which fpatio hours around with one lump of feces bulum I. in parts divilum, because of the great tis frtift will move the same cluffum; in at which hour the figure of an Angel im mobile, or Serene's group impinging on mon will break Again the CR glass ball. in I divide the parts of the fire hours equally in the center rollable balls held by magnets these are infused with fruits, in which other things: figs ra: mistrustful, in the limbo of the globes hours demonftrcnt aftronomic, or Italian, or Babylonian; Great media: The columns of impure iron were rotated by the hour log, use the uppermost button fpatio It will go around for hours, so lateral by moving the balls on the side glass Ipheres content Syntagma Horolo- giodidticum, today is the great day of all reason in Mufaeus noftro fpedtandum ex let's go we also drank in the upper part I will transfer to the limbo, the bird, which together with by advancing the movement of the clock, the hours he I will express all this in a few words I brought to share with the leader, Farewell dS favor PART TWO MAGIC parastatic SIVE ON REPRESENTATIONS WONDERFUL THINGS THROUGH LIGHT AND SHADOW ATIO JIG1M Paraflatt cafive tffprafentdti- by "Warms of Light Shadow mijliones, pft Caioptricas refle xions, and refrabhonef} nuru to the Hearing pecacles are presented to the authorities. With this help jBachon was once carried by the shadow for before the disciples removed before the exlnbmjje is carried With this help Arael lArabs about the matter be washed out in the theater, whatever Mhnexem was producing Auditores Vellent. This ad pjparafta mrjiCUp0 Dmofl ratus conclaYia depmge- ticks Ttm. hat grapes, CA all kinds of animals ca with the help of his husband, Iphiudoipho Like an emperor in a certain scene} all Cafares d Julius to Charles V. r e pr a feri they are carried away: whence many of him Magic Va-, nothing else e'sfquam f I don't want to mule it is hidden by Luc The shadow fc, entities, to which they more effectively adfcrtpreferunt, lia from the mystery of Light and Shadow Let's see if we can produce it. smoke therefore m pr a cedenti Parte de prodigiofo Lucis And the shadow of the movement, in order not to the hours Pufque demonf randum ordered, as much I was treated with great strength; now the order praises P as the prodigies of the Shadow Lucifq, unmoved by diclas prodgiofas re let's declare the initials: that as ma jori with the method fiat y de der them plum, aqueif, and from the fire also we will differ with each other. CHAPTER De 'Reprafenlatiombs aereis NATURE pi&rix, while wonderful in a certain way in all things she paints and imagines a variety of things which, in the mysterious representation of things so that we should not overdo it. Because, however, it is permissible for a few people to go to this place Corinth: in what ways NaturapicStri- what she does, and how to imitate her I thought I would mention a few at this point a mouse; Nature, therefore, is fourfold, unprofitable He paints the fpedtacle of things. First in heaven some of which are from God apart from nature tension, in the foreboding of evil? or I will the future of our world is aiTumuntur: so; while in the books of the Machabese army in they are formed of air, and the arms are concurred the noise of these companies is perceived: while at the time of the birth the womb was in the air
He painted the coming of the Eternal Light into the world f r, , J TT. n v Mint qus Ipectactiles tell the almost nature of the Hiltorics every monument, as at Lycofthe Nem, Aldrovandum, Gefierum, Corne the Gemme, from other places the laws were collected, which in Greek, in Latin for digia, cftentra, they call portents, tumui- Gggga twm Miraculous, indeed rum Jjeta the bottom to The great book of art your civil, fchifmat, wars, and other calamities. Second, various meteorological imprefactions logic, comets TrttvTQjuopipiss beams, crosses, and other multiform figures, haloes, etc Relia, missing goats, falling laces, familiaques of which in meteorology delivered Thirdly, the nature of fubindeadmi a certain temperature of the light, the screen you have a variety of colors and a temper to, in the air fpeculis He portrays the most beautiful of things, as if there were none human art, no industria ed to reach can be seen And of Iris indeed I wonder the nature of the fig-paint; work, destiny which was said in the first book. Refatts, as of two ways, the first of which is Nature perfedte of every kind, and no to all I saw only the faintest images in the air He likes to paint these places and times. Second, how the same is broken the precipice of the mountains, the ravines bus, and finally in animals, plants, let's see if he wants to shape it with stones. Let it be therefore. JbfdgUTdrs the matter is known to a few, pass it through in this place I'm taking a long time. I fane since the year Meffitnara passing on many prodigies of this kind initialed, with admiration fane the most dignified in- I will tell you to know the truth of the matter I would find out; I brought myself a king; where many of the more experienced inhabitants of the town this is nature; Helped by a miracle, everyone so afraid to have the matter, as I had heard reported, they affirmed. So that it is also more leafy around the na ture prodigy so admirable be farer, be then of the place, the nature of the earth, go the pore of the sea, the dung while I led: to whom each one easily in so I would like to eat the hidden effects it will be said, I have come. True, like a prodigy will be affirmed with greater certainty, I add here are the letters of some of our Fathers, who IpeCtacula of this nature in epiphtola one to the Lion of the Sandtius Society of noftra, make a man from every side educated dung, and for the time in Roman Col the legion of higher studies given to the praefect, he will write at length. Paraftafis I. Nature. Siye de LTorgdiu Rhegjmrum in Freto "Mamertino, five Sicily. especially at the time when the burning mus Sun a; ftu fervoribubufque Sea Ma He digests the merits, unrelieved by nature and the riches of the fupelleCtiles are futile opening, I delivered to him especially the sea, which; Regius, old age no less than old age rum Philolophorum Lycaei Academiifi that with the first famous Calabria; town do, he expounds the fubinde fpeftandas. Con for it dyes, as mentioned at the time of the re-. wait for a theater in the steam room let the cat really open, I adore such a variety of things born, with so much equipment of fcenae, that ni hil is almost done there, which cannot be fe fped from hibeat: ordinatiffime difpofi the architecture of the palaces, the building and to all the Perfpedtive rules in after finishing the order of the columns projected a kind of wonderful magnificence; in their the place of the gradually disappearing te scenacatoptrica You can see the shadows here cypress trees, other that struck the trees with a wonderful blow the rows of difpofites, the plains immense herds of men, oxen, flocks, and sheep which are crowded with flocks; everything is so great variety of rums, as well as the art. The miftura of the shadows, so alive with gifts as to produce nothing like human clothing can be seen And they call Rhegini this fpedtaculum Morgana. And with these Reverend Molto in Chrifto Padre. Peace of Christ T A mattina detf Affontione della I saw so much cole, from so much new chedi ripenfar- J, r n n deMorgana le non mai Jatio, ejtanco. i armi, che la je. hegino- fio Varo, un vefiigio di Paradifo quel di, che effa vi entrb Che fe aneor l ockkio Id sii ha,
come linen! etto, lo fpecchio voluntario, ove vegga cib che glipiace: quel che ho viflojo, I want chiamarlo fpecchio di quem fpecchio II Mare, che hagna la Sicilia fi gonfib, e diven- tbper ten miles in about di lunghezga, come una (pina dimontagna ner a; e quefio della Ca lips fpianb, e comparve in un moment un crifiallo chiariffimo, e trafparente che parea uno fpecchio, che con la cima appoggiaffefu quella montagna di aequa, e coi piede al Lido from Calabria In which flower the Mirror was present to di colore chiaro ofeuro une fila di piii di Pilafiri duguale larghezga, alterp tutti equidifianti, e di un medefimo vi- vefiimo chiarore, come di una medefima om- bratura erano gli sfondati frdpilafiro epila- wild In un momento poi i pilafiri fifmergaro- no dlalterpci, e fi arcuarono informa di cote- fii aquedotti di Pgma, b delle fu fruitioni di Salome i e refib fimplice fpecchio il reflo dell aequa, fino ali' aequa montonata di Sicilia: mdper poco, che toflo fopra l areata fi firmb un gran cormcione: frd poco fopra dei corni- tion (i formed the real quantity of coffee difpofii in quella vaflijfimci piappa di vetro, everyone Mdna P e tutti: di tina forma, e lavor o: frdpoco, li caftelli rimafero quantitd di torri tutte ugua- U: frdpoco le torri fi cambiaronoin teatrodi colonnade: frd pocoil teatrofiflefe, efecene una doppiafuga: frdpoco la fuga de columna ti divento longijfima facciata di feneflre in ten threads: delta facciatajife varietyd di felue from the pine, from the cypress equal, from other varieties to be born E qui il tutto difparue, elmarecon unpoco di vento r it orno sea ffuejla e quella E at a M organa, che Incredibly unbelievably, S? this hour viflo true, epiu bella di quel che mifidipinfi. J)i quefta hor I believe, che fia vero, che foglia companre in the flight of various colors, e The war did not end in a large way, by nature remaining: by che chiaro ofcuro, fimile d quefii I did not see May. Chi larchitetto, e chi'l brabro fia, from what art, from material fiampiin un pun to le varie, e so magnificentg, I trust che Vofira Reverentia me linfegni, che vive frd le truly magriificen%e Romane, e contempla le ve- riffime divine s while reflopregandole Iddio evening propitiation, I went away from recommending myself Holy Sacrifice Di Reggio di Agofto Save in Crypt. Jnatio Angelucci: Dama remembers this prodigy too in the life of Ifidorus Philofophus at Pho- of that Noflra the people told with temper a man of faith, near Sicily in the field named Tetrapyrgium, and in not a few other places, to be seen the fighting horse of Jimulacra; rdcjuc maoci you have refreshed me at the time when we were burning laugh Similar fpe&ata Neritis interior Apu liae: the city of which he is today the bishop Fabius Chifius, a man in we are all fuming, tus, ingenuity for these things, and prudence incomparable affordable, Xpoftolicus while I am writing these things, in German Ambassador In this, I say, Diocese of the Metropolis, the daughters of nature. mata Ipedtari, says Scipio Mazzellus in Decription of the Kingdom of Neapolitan fol. with these words, Poi apprejfofivede Salito Nar do, Cittd molto antica given to Ptolemy Ne- ritual, la quale e molto civile, ricca, populo- do; dove Ji veggono fipejfo m aero fojfiando i the winds of Auflrali, with which one fpecchio dlalcune imagini di quelle cofe, cheflono all intorno; il volgo, che non conofce la caufa, imputa ad with a diabolical illusion, going all the way through la difpofitione dei luogo, ecagione dell' aria, che singrojfaper lafoverchia humiditd. Un- j can scarcely be said, as much as this ma paraphatic, and how strange in mo while the intellect of many was numbed, while they cannot understand how things are they appear in the cloud, although they are not inviolate arajUtkcL ash fields appear. I, therefore, as it is a pra didlum, so as to be around so worthy of often folidius philofopharer I brought myself to the throne, all the phenomena surroundings with the shore of the place, the land, the steam
the nature of the reef and the sea, and the property crying, at last I discovered the hoods. For the first time I covered a mountain in the region called Sicily nor Tinna of the sea, Rhegio'oppofitum, black which was delivered into Peiorum defluente j green shores, and the bottom of the sea, a lot gravel, five sand from felenite, antimo- nio, glass, and other materials of leather con blown from the neighboring mountains to roll them full of books, In the heat of the sun, together with the most infusible vapor exalted, divers various fuperficies con Let this be done in the middle of the thickest vapors and the mountain is opposite you, a shadow of what kind opaeatte, in fpeculum polyhedron omni bus numbers lift Therefore, in this fpeculiar ad having an eye on the shore, also various things rum obedtarum fiulacra are reflected. It happens that you hit the artificial columns, or from a single pillar on the shore which into an infinite multitude of columns it will go away with a multiple reflection; the same Profound reason, with which even one limulacrum between the two fpeculas returned to the end of the table so within the didta fpecula fimulacrorum pror I was able to refled the multitude of my children let's use it in Catoptric Magic will be extended Thus, one man, strangely within the Ipe- culars of the clouds will be fuperficies and fepiufque re He shows the army bending. Same thing I will say to trees, cattle, and animals while With the green columns let the others turn red objects, such as trees, caftellbrum, ani malium: it is caufa, that when the eye does not fter to divers fpecular vapors perpe with your mobile phone you will do different things let it be according to the rules of the angles incident, reflection, matter also di- verfae fub should be seen at an angle, 8c as Ipecular vapor fuperficiates them in he reflected his eyes. But they are surprised at this point How do you make that material sand? will be raised But they are wondering where to ride the force of attradlion the mind, with which the sun goes attracts the pores, one with the light of different things ma three times in the deep he likes to fuble, more to be trusted Who kills hair, straw, sand, sand, and other things to be found in the hailstones? which there are obvious signs, didlas things, unk with vapor raised into the air, ibid mixed with distilled water, then by force from the cold concrete, down to the ground fcendifle If it is true that Meteorolo- gi report, sometimes with bundles, sticks, fer Ggg Cauf&fpe- cnli air that Death ganam w let them go Mrtis Magna Book X. Magia Part L ro, frogs, and fimilibufque animals they do not grow in the forest region they could, the ruddy first being drawn thither by his mate things The same thing for the glass cup fubtiliffima, and almost indelible, together with lifted up by the steam of the sea it conforms to fiction. Do you have an offer? the name of the caufam It's already shining, as I will give here the Hiftorias, which most people tan- how the empty figures of men weaken let us declare Pomponius Mela reports, in Mauritania Vari tetro Atlas e fle regions, in which it was not about the south within the mountains of several fpedtras Let them comport themselves with those who are born of men They are to be rivaled by all; see you dancing there hear the beating of trumpets and drums you Pliny also reports, within Imaus in Scythia, the country in which snow on the vast plain the shape of human beings and the army in which he was traveling jeffeil you will judge at the time of emiflo, ceu fpeculo, with omni- a bus full of parades and ceremonies of adoration which the ipfi used, reprrn- fanned But the Indians, ignorant of nature, Mysterium, for this kind of worship, would have been reflected images from the leaning cloud cited, the effigy apparitions of the gods, so much so that the devil is the work of nature I put a thousand miles on your minds. Idol but soon where from PP Dominican fraud she was discovered, exiled, and burned the impofterum didto in place of the ceflafi to appear Fe. I have no doubt that it is of this nature phalmata in many places of any Idolola the three have given an occafion, when you do nothing it becomes more difficult for those who admire and admire these things
We do not understand the causes and reasons of which j so much more firmly are we mocked by them, as much as a to us they are thought worthy of greater admiration. Yes, the Mauritanians are pale with the skins of wild beasts midtos, and dancing to the pipes in the hujufmo give life to the vapors, that fame fparfifle tores not infrequently in the grandmother, and it is verifiably precepted deviant, as then the Geographer admire and finally into manifest destruction be conducted Hait refers to the river Oby hon Armenian, the region to which no one has yet penetrated, because of fear lium of the pecters, which from that river par they compare you, multitude. There too the neighing of horses, the bleating of sheep, and the bleating of men and howlings are frequently heard the fat is woven; so that this of the Devils fearing the country, lest they be filled with horror I have yet to try. This, of course, nes recenfinita hiftoria by those naturals vapor in that glass ceu fpecu- lo a kind of exorientation, it is best to they are For Eieri, the beach, nature can let him be such a man of places, as in Ereto Let us describe the Siculus, in which certain years times when the vapors of the glass are elevated or Ipe- let those horrible blows show their legs, which they fear so much. But that varies let them hear the voices of animals, that is through voices of neighboring animals in a hollow rock, or there is no doubt that the reflections on the mountain should be done for you must not be afraid of the vapor things require the sea to be fubftrated; puffy the nature of the place is full of glassy steam. instead of All this is confirmed by those who biUs hifto- quodam in Quatimalenfi Kingdom of Amcri. Herrera refers to rituals; for he says that the worship of idols has been burning for so long rite of the Idol accepting them as truths, Satyrs, Sylva- we were blown away in the said Mauritanian region to compare the seasons with the shores, and give the flutes to lust to play the dances run It is clear, then, that the brass fpeculum was born ra to be done, in which the images of things multiply this certain wonders to men at the end of any work, or the sport of demons, present We know how to apply it they declare that they are active, let us do it while it is Paraftafis II. Id ejl} drtificofd fpUrorum aerorum exhibition We have seen the previous work of nature re- reprehensible: now what is the reason? not by applying the adjuncts to the paffini, with the same skill Light Shadow; we wish to declare it must be randum Let then the oblong iron shaft be in motion while the channel is curved: then store the small pieces Felenitic coals, celts of antimony finished turgidos, and ahaf clods into matter by force (Chemists understand me here gunt) fubjedtoque canal fire coals someone Americans. until with great fervour, let them burn with the name of Anazothl in that place, conceived by force and fire. This through fumpfifle the origin of the nation from here, which atfto, in the region of the canal, of a black heart At the time of the holy year, the idol should be stretched out in this vessel: then water from various sources Some one's teeth, let him appear in a cloud with a chorus of vitriols, and make up falsehoods a kind of deafness. But you should have that suit ready, as soon as you where in which he says that the Indians were made fun of by the coward, that ip, ; You pour out the kindled coals, behold a wonder The smoke of the Idol, of which we spoke before at the vici-, I didfei, as if in a luminous glass, from Every year, the lake is filled with smoke in an infinite place of worship I was filled with the same variety of colors, if 'Jiftdma etc. reflected by vapor to the eye, or to the eye of nature working in Morgana Mamertina envy s fumma with pleasure attuned you will look through the obscuring curtain of glass the transparency of the pores; whence the objects so great a reflection of things in a congested place a variety of colors from the phallus feminarius bursts out, as in human affairs there is nothing pul I would like to be seen as a child. However, the matter in order to infuse it very well, the chemical He will require the right talent. From this single experiment both tis phaphmata blown in the Strait of Mamertine illucefcent reasons, ca- fam so to the eye of friends taus, so that no one would cry out, the caufa was no longer in any doubt
dare I do not proceed any further here; the matter only sharp wits can influence him. A mirror, certainly, who has been examined more closely than this, she admirable, with the help of nature in the exhibition of things fe- let it be done, that no one will mind he wishes to conceive, with a little, I say, all of them far exceeding nature's ways. Nor that let him pervade all his ways a pore suitable for exhibiting hujulmodi for this is evident from thence, that not everywhere in places where vapors rise there, let the fuccefles have the desired business; fed in those wild places, which and the shore of the place, and the particular property of steam He made them fit. Not for the same reason all the vapor procured by skill, fed is tan then to the model of nature, such as As we have already said, it will be suitable for this introduction. However, the business did not, however, lead Ghy- I said to use a small hand, that I was effected be strong, he demands. You will collect with this machine, in a breath with innumerable fumes and vaporous motions beri pofle prepared with human genius doxa, that LeCtor curiofo, machinator that they were left to be spent further The mouse is useless in so many things to say in the multitude and variety of rums, many are few cis only insinuate. Chapter II De pi Brias 'Natur ce induftna, qua in j'oe- to human beings, animals, plants, etc He did not spare anything to the fat. the painting of fimulacra in the novels of the fetus the bus, while it is pofling a certain force to give material to women, the less ge He likes to be aflimilar Which knot carefully examining Lewis Merca tus, when he says fuperefle, prevent something else chin, in which the femen may not work freely let him not sever his son from his parents he loves, that is to say, a violent imagination tem, and various things, which I do not folum among the con to be taken; it is conceived at the time of mation, since this training for women in the same way as a lady there, in which the powerful of the left dominate to the lower ones, and the lower ones to the upper ones because are produced That is why those portraits through a rather intense imagination grasp, as the father's idol, you want in the fetus impresses With whom D. Thomas is a when art. acquiring imagination exert some force in a bodily organ, whence fpi is changed to fpecie corporal rites, in any formative form mature, which works in the woman therefore others from which a change takes place in the offspring, because the imagination of the parent in the congreflu. From here he fuses, that spirit from the image native power in an efficient manner fuas exercises his powers, the formation of his image let him delineate how the ipfa formmatrix, which from na ture comes from the member of the parent. So great is the force of the spirit of the plathic, that from a strong imagination it would be wonderful m are produced: hence totftigmata, n vi, charadterifmi fruits, wines ru bri, 6r of flesh and animals, in childbirth they repeatedly refute imprefa. something be in the face, or in the end of a woman's womb blowing, or cereal, or strawberry, or wine whether it be cast, or poured in, mu lier was pregnant and took it seriously; then a note of the matter m fetu imprefa, depiCtaque fpe&abitur The same thing happens, be it a cat, or a mouse, or a mouse. la unexpectedly impaled a pregnant woman; in for when it is finished, the essence of the matter will be impressed on the notafoetus fpecie radiating through fantasy, fspirituum- with the help of the fetal touch being deVeCta; I am a beautiful woman the animal immediately caught the brunt with his hand brush it, and the same hand to the other heart the part of the pore is hidden. Examples see innumerable examples of this matter in Cornelius Gemma, Veinreich Lycofthen, Gefnernum, Lemnium, and elsewhere things What an imagination the force of women to images in the fetus to form a bus concept, fuse traCfcatumeftin Magnetic Art. Certainly for there is no power of imagination then imagine, fed the appropriate color of When, then, of the women peer, that the form of the fetus is either canine, or they gave birth to a deformed cat, we read or with dogs, cats are mifcuifle fafl; An example as happened in Hetruria in the time of Pius III. defamed Pope to a woman who had a dog leaning Magnae Book Magia f arts I. with the help of the abominable congteffim, sing him
faffa, the grace of atonement, to the Pontiff Or as it happened to another woman in Avenione, which gives birth to a dog, a dog fu- llinuifle he pronounced; and therefore the young Fran- the head of the King of Gaul with a dog it was burned: it must be said against the Atheists of this time (those who lead impiously, man nor can truth be conceived out of befty, and so that the human soul is not a leku and be effete the mortal; these monftras from the femur the dog could not come out at all. Whom very much none of the other animals ro geftatioms meet in time, pro- and the joys and differences of all heaven trariis, etc. i, fus& diiftum is. Bring while there will be such animals, we will need them not to be made of the woman of the brute, but of man, think of a busy woman with such a form tion, and the fantasy of the fetus will be shared, HifiorU Ae Nam even if a dog intrudes on a woman, nothing fomtnu lominus nothing is begotten from that woman, fed monftrtpa-. T. . like a woman's womb it perishes, or goes to decay, at last it was done with the rest of the fords; concept green with the human woman, by the power of imagination, and a monster of thought is produced, by which that woman because of him The dog was disturbed and frightened with fear femper fe thinks about giving birth. this time la D. Hieronymus narrates fe liberaffe mu I am laboring under the support of adultery, while he gave birth to his father's youngest child rit, with a picture of a child in a woman's house He was not a kinsman, Picdrix himself there is a fantasia of the follies of this sort: brush, corporeal spirit: colors, species cx phantafia radiating; tissue, heart tender pus of a child; prototype body the infantile body, the maternal body, whose parts with the parts of the child's tongue they have a meeting. So great is the power of my imagination pregnant women, so that what is in mind they perish, they easily depict the fetus in conception. Cornelius Gemma reports, with Caro- tus V. Emperor from Hilpania in Belgium He arrived, fortified with the most impresftiff fitted with the most extensive equipment of Procerus, the women of Belgium would walk along those shores case, then I use geftantes curiofite ni my anxieties, from the sight of the Hilpans, were lively children working with imagination with black eyelashes, and with curly hair. Re This is the force of the imaginative imagination also in ipfa animals, which monftrofos in the womb they draw the birth of the child a strong view of any thing. In the eggs emnium fi teftisaves too, now killing, now true c. nl human figures, or something like a pinxilSft The authors refer to the fraud. The natural pitch of the rich plant in the stones what miracles In the roots of the plant, paint in reality, and to imagine all things It is better known than it should be said. I will report them so much, which I have offered ipfe. Four There are loose species, in which the plant- Vjir! a rum, the icons of strawberry trees gins of nature are wondrously depidfe. The first rock is the Borphycites, which Pliny calls there in the black branches of the white, those leaves It is different from Impera Nemorophus, others the rock of China, others den they call it dry, with many barks, ce a little inftar conftituta, of which among I would plant the most beautiful luperficias, and of trees, nay, the verb is also of trees Gies represents There is a third, which in po- in the genus Rofarus, placed by the Emperor has images of fern leaves, hence la the pis is called a fern leaf. Fourth leg through the grain dkfta, that of wheat, of other which refers to the grain of fenugreek. In Achat, and marble, fire Jalpida there is almost nothing which nature does not paint: you will see in it now cities, now rivers, now rivers, and animals of all kinds. Bring it to Achat I remember the crincifixus that I saw. Effi also St. Jerome, in a loose depi- dtam, juxtaBethleemitic fpelunca vi-crucified of the authors of the Hierofolymite itinerary they are woven In ferns, from T olfcnli stone china extradtis, complete alphabet, li teres formed by a variety of veins, quan and then I drew out that figure of speech, which Ico- nif fig. i. teaches Who kills Mandragus? for to bear a rudimentary figure before fe? born
I have also made a man of the type of glory, lies perfidiously: other bees of Satyr's honey In Brionias alba: find the root both a human portrait, and still in publ co Mufseo Bononienfi confedvari, teftatur Ambrofinus Nor in roots and plants only man's fur, led others He figures things out over and over again. Who kills in the fi At the root of the law a certain law fed the nature of water lam Imperiale? At the root of which give from effedtu i? didta sting ad- umbraffe, and fic in other roots herb rum Csepefefta, they show the heavens volumes The aftragal root has phyllaries pictures On the trunks of different trees For different readings you choose different figures experience will teach you to find out. At the root the bus of plants is also a wonderful manure You will look at the riches of things. Now the wood Quaiac trunk with a dog's head figure bird "Magia Paruftdtic#,
the bird perfected nature, pinxiffe, me elsewhere I remember seeing it. So while I'm writing this, in ra- I took a piece of gunpowder while it was still tender put on the image of the chest in an oval shape so I find, those clothes worn by nature so that the art of care might be seen to cooperate mhh I'm Vkfia was born ra pt lines work magic pie fiica in which they confide Marrow on the mountain depicted The head hand in Mount Seyl expref time smoke
yArtis magna Liber M. Magia fars At the same time in the garden I caught a butterfly on whose wings the nature of the face of the Savior perfcde expref He had gone as far as the smoke of a fur coat with the aid of the stone, among other natures He was pleased to bring the matter to this prefect, Iconium. In bundles also the nature of the soul of the various lium, pifcium, volucram, tower, flu he depicts the enemy, the mountains, in such a way that they will scarcely diverge from the truths: of which when in To the world we know, I was born from the earth I am afraid, here I have more to say mischievous, so as to fic obeda filgia in former places let them correct On this account, indeed, these things You taught everything according to the pattern of nature in things they must be repre- sented in any way malia monftrofa, monftrofa plants for to be guided by various images, which stems, roots, leaves, fruits but various figures must be introduced, and to this Somehow I experienced paraphthalic magic let them be seen to spin: because, nevertheless, we the work of the leaves of light and shade is wonderful the smoke promised to the ancients, foretold to to reject the magic of plagiarism we married CHAPTER III. PDe representation of things fortuitous ca- fuali, how artfully rejected it Is it possible to be introduced? We have spoken in the previous chapter on the nature of the penis hair in various bodies already the verb repeats, so as to re- We are dealing with pre-emption at this point. Call but the mouse is accidental, because there is no certainty by natural intention, or even artificially fculptura, piduravc things fimulacra re rum is printed: fed merely by chance, eb the various parts of any one entangled, fub with a certain and determined pound in the eye charging, with such and such a figure let them cry So Panormi in the mountains of Cujufdam on the high side of the city, vo fcopuli with the protrusions of the bushes, Even if I am drunk, I will throw them out with my eyes they occur, as medals, with the head of Im They express the wickedness of the perpetrator in the middle. They also went to the theater on foot tus Meflanenfis the Scyllaean promontory A hairy head with eyes, nafo, He presents his beard with art, like a brush may be seen in outline. The stones are indeed hail bris the bright parts, but the bushes, dume tis, geniftetis, philicetis, or even fcopulis1 mufcofis, presenting the shadows of the mountain. I also fixed some trireme mounts ram, mistrusting other men and horses, I remember the trusting liars. Innumerable pieces of this flour are the foal of the trireme He who visits the various regions of the world will find: it would be heavy: for it can scarcely be done, as it were so great of couples not meeting anywhere so great a difference of planes I will shade the crowd, not something fubin- They will delineate, which, however, I am not sure of they refer to a pound of quidpia. Paufa reports nias in the Baeotians, in the appendage of Olympus
the mountain that was called Ara Jovis was not Ara Jovis another caufa, nifi, that Aram with the fire mOtdmt0- he would express wickedly. They will also travel with these, through the conveyance of Sin, I have been variously fcopuli fifii At dawn the army of men too with the fear of those who do not know report Bellonius reports. Rocks too that Ruflise, whom Ortelius mentions, of men, camels, cattle, etc. and the forms of things are truer to nature matrix, than the miraculous metamorphosis let the evil works be done in the fall. I remember myself lias the works of nature once in the Hermitage of San- Cti Maurini near Rhegium Narbonnfis lanili The city of the province, not to the end of Mrini's surprise so many different shapes as much as the imagination can imagine. Olaus Magnus in the middle of the North Sea nal nature refers to the fcoptilum pofuifle I was a perfect monk with a hood expressing In Infula also Meiirenfi, as I ipfe offered from on the riental side of Infula, from the prominent pre the shape of a man overhanging the rocks completely freed from the precipice a mule, whence the name is derived from phaphmate (Brother hanged. All wonder He seems to have been bewildered by that, while here P. Alphon Mlrapieiu tells I was Dovalle's Manager of the Province of Chile come, of a strange image of this kind not to be trusted among fuos. There is a place to The sea Auftrale commonly known as the god Zur, the god of raucous, where the mountain of Emerald, Turchefii, so treat the precious stones of the bride and groom tus is, as from a distance, the fe of various things of this kind The stone is not fat with native splendor at the end of the pleasure of the beholders prsbeat In the hollow of this mountain, ex I am certain, however, and with a firm grasp, I amago The Blessed Virgin with her son in her arms fat is seen in such a variety of colors, as almost no one here does the work of an indented nature he wants to perfude, fed all apparitions let them hold the divine one with a bite: a wonder for it seemed to the natives when it does not flow from a certain place he would provide for the performance; from whom I become or my You are too much to be remembered, I am dying ra, apart from the rocks, Sc precipitous nothing Nothing at all a lot. Magic the rains to see you EXIFtimes, so that therefore the place of those who touch the hearts in wonder ra with time it will become strangely frequent: receive the intrument of the noftrum, feii he has been carried away. The fame of this fpedtaculus is as far-fetched as in Sceno- to our Fathers, too, who spread the matter graphic Arte lib. fol. defcrifi- Let us examine more closely the spider in whose webs we have first covered it with fire they run, they carry out the work, but not as they feared things, a divine apparition, or a miraculous reprisal, fed eat a mere optical projection in the eye I color the stone with random light and shadows and in proportion to the image of the fub the woman struck her son with her arms rent However, the devotion of the people towards I'm so sorry for this amazing fpedtaculo prevented, I would go to him every year He proceeded as if to a place refer to the divine providence of Deipara They poured out the abyss: which indeed I owe even if it is not at all an unpleasant thing for me He taught them to come out little by little it began to be so bright that it was already all over that world the place is scarcely more famous, and add6 God the Most Great not by any kind of flattering image with the eyes of the falling, I was at the name of the glo to propagate the cult of Mother this place seems to be chosen for him, as if From this also it may appear that nothing in the world ture, so casual, as to appear accidental pode, that fub secret divine providences tis difpofition not moderate of all let the image of God be hidden from us because of the hidden ends, as in the things we have said that the coufilius did not accept any reasons, so that you trusted to presfent like the Eagle here, de- He seems to have a very large head. In one! you will line up After this, a firm inllrument q toque the nature of the Infula Archipelago in a specific place, from which to be formed in the image of Deiparas, not inferior
Artincio Infide, I heard not so long ago. and with his eye to the dioptre of the log G, dili- Atqiie hxc are, which I imagine by chance! offer what parts of the objects did I hesitate to speak in reproof? paraphthalic features of the web Therefore, it does not matter if the snows are made to the natures exemplified near the optical ray. I would like to teach in this place also, by which reason these parts are to be either pidtum, or lest the princes should put the likeness of the images on the mountains; of the fields, valleys, and gardens of the difeonfi- jlemilli, which he tramples in the web, each one to bring in evil tricks, to bring in a false art, and to bring in no snow from the place of intrument into the eyes podintj, which, however, the nyfi cannot safely incur from the confli. Pofilmt, however, pnndta only let them report something with certainty: and let it be done! primary delineation in objects tices, or to be depicted on the plain of the gardens. Pri ni, or with the determining eye on objects fedations, which features of the image pro- jieiunt or light instead of a diopter G, save you ta, and bring a picture from, or a piece of paper cut out the mats on a dark plane and in a place where For in this light I draw in space shall determine the principal pidtu- rse delineation: or the shadow, the figure of which like a transparent veil attached, for this light in G, the apposed shadow will determine the pro- I would like to make a sketch, it is profuse on the basis of which in the first part of this we taught to make horology: heretofore for in three ways there is almost no business a m jmm it can be done on a double basis, or fcenographically or orthographically, as I have already explained we get Paraflafis I. Optica. Zum in the mountains so accommodate, a tree res plants in vineyards, C3 gardens of art to spread a certain kind of culture, so that report anything from a certain and secure place rant outside the verb nothing profanity, not to be quick indeed he shares the matter. I will then draw out what the royal ma- worthy, that of men sheep Magna Book X. Magic of Tarsus II. is brought to light. And that mind you may perceive mine more clearly, here is a fig. Iconymmi to set the image of a man low, which is close and fertile in length bafim LM infpeda, mountains, cities, valleys les, precipices, rocks, rivers, lakes, the trees and the trees of the wild field Cnmptu muiacra reprsefentabit. If the verb is stupid lim MD redam infpexeris from a distance, ftatim figure the image of the human figure from various trees, the shadows of the rocks and rivers, woven together, let not the eyes of the beholder be deceived by the end of the pleasure He will object, that the figure is more offensive. par pa- to as from a certain place ffooted, like a phamma would present For if you display this figure in ftrumeati mefopdci infcriberes, help rare next to traditional practices, easy to apply you would have reached the desired level. Qoyollarium I to present the rum, with veiled arms, effigies Let the Prince and the various animals be gures from a given weight, safe, so that they appear to have been registered with a brush. In the mountains, too, are divided by rocks, in on the steps of the windows, in the intercolumniations, and in those places where you have worked miracles for men they will be deri poffint, and let them be nothing deceitful fubefle poffit, even certiffima fint, St demonftra- tive, and easily put into work. Hac The city will also be destroyed by art, which ex in the published place, the brain would report something. How Binocrate Architects Mount Athos was given to Alexander the great they bear to form a voluifle of hiftoria. Variously also fields, gardens, which from a distance And they take the shape of the artist propofi- just as in figure of this The iconography is pretty clear. All this is done leave the river curious to Ledori to investigate who It is clear from these, in what manner in the walls any walk along the long walls produdu, figure, feu ifnago any one of them with the art of debriefing, it is possible to spread it out of folio the eye can be seen determined, beyond that The verb is a whole lot of shame, people, souls meadows, lakes, gardens, pine trees, mountains, etc and thousands of reports. Polita feneftra noftra mefoptica, in his veil before the image on the wall forget when you depict what is to be projected, and then
you will work with the eye applied to G, as di I will give it; for the line of the optical image of the ray determinative minds in the web, in the wall where that is the projection of the image they will determine, as from no other place, the snow from the mass of G Corollary. II. Of the temples T)Atet also, in what manner on the floor will pave From any temple, or the same walk to be defcribed; so as to enter the temple or the figure of a walker should be deterred to appear threatened, proceflu verb image whether the prodigious species disappear. (Corollary III. From these it is made, without any effect gular place, or no such difficulty made difficult by minute fiiperficies, without the same image as any of these the mind can be painted, because the fub is certainly tan then I put down the image, and nothing else he demonstrates it, as in figure Iconium This is clear. Corollary OAtet, too, by what means of wonder in the gardens artificial infection of plants Another garden wonder rum butt Paraftafis II. Scenographic On the table one the same, you diverge I can't describe those images with art, as if there were none the fob can be seen at a certain weight. JN is a kind of picture of any kind, of the word the grace of Chrift the Saviour there; after this in a special way on the plane of the image conftxtues the ball with the threads, as the threads into one white fabric they meet the eye at once. When I am finished, I tremble This is a fixed board in the same white X! fi a false image of the gods, for example of the Blessed Virgin, the eye of the cross fitu conftitution will be drawn from the oppo- put the verb image on the same side of the thread fuperficia, other, for example, sandi joan nis Baptiftse image obliquely the same fit ef it will be fixed, and we will have three different images nes, the media of which is the orthoptic ray Clari- the first, the second loxoptic Virgin, the third the same loxoptic ray Praecurforum ex will be there If the verb anoptico and catoptico ra Please show other images in the same table you would really like; the wires will be transferred very much, so as in the image plane with normal cra- what should they present? those polished from the upper part in the fuperficia of the threads na, from the lower verb fecund anopti- when the ray is in the same, yet be opposed the other will be drawn, exhi- and he shall drink one Sc of the same tablet for five days turn the images, of which there is none, into the snow to, in a certain place it is possible to see things very beautiful, easy, and pedantic welcome By what word is the reason for these images It is possible for the initials to be presented to the fpeculis, in fe It will be said, Here Mdgta fcraftattcd. To this belong the common people who are immediately exposed; they are reprimanded; she is a prodigious reason a mouse; nes, which you fold in the manner of prisms fold the paper on both sides they paint pictures. Also, you would be very kind to him cells of the trigone, in which they are gradually difpofited fpe image the tail is polished with a slanting fit, united below He demonstrates with fpecies: of which with Bar barus, Dantes, and Perfpedtiva curiofa Fu if they will deliver, we decided to omit this instead of only those in which you know your own they are of sale, they are content. CHAPTER IV. Ve fdrajlajl per fpecieuim in obfcurum' place of impregnation. Paraftafis III. Light-shadows Qua In ohfcuro Varia rerumjimulacra re- they are present U A M VIS in this fruitful work fris the book in various ways, the site of the radiation because, however, it is only generally known there we have delivered, here are some re- He was alive to deliver the methods of prasfentation. Note, then, the twofold mode of repras- in the dark place of fortune-telling. The first by radiation of fpecies in the place of icurum the other by light or fire. Yes let us proceed in order of the throats. Of the first kind the reprasfentation is made with the glass, or at the end of the glass, to use the quoted place it is explained s with the glass nevertheless, the lenticular cryftal fire, of all things are best presented in an obscure place, so as to ex- let them instill horror at the fuffers. Don't spring6 either the aperture or the lenticular glass system let him sell the paraftafeos, hacinduftriaar-
you will hide the work. On the side of the hole in the lo with oblcuro let there be a certain receptacle in the mode of a cube, or of a parallelepiped, as fi Gura Iconium shows that the whole close the region of the hole thinly, covered with fubtiliff paper, the opposite of which fimm of the hole latushabet the truth, diftan- you to fpecies genuinely represented proportion After this, the maidservant the foreigner of things by means of fpecies on paper white radiating from the opposite side with these faiths, as if in a kind of theater, so that wherever they are abroad, here let the tall man appear alive, and smoke with convenience, and with greater experience they are repaid by the concealment of the news; cSm neither the aperture nor the pupil of the lens can be seen cular, fed folas fpecies on white paper fur of innumerable variety of colors in the first part of this prop. I taught to make prodigious horology mouse I remember an ingenious device of this kind. an artist in Germany, the plains, bes, fylvas, fcenas, of every kind display the plates so artfully that you do not that they were made by natural art, which they saw there he was presented, he was able to pervade. Ma the china was in the form of an extruding cube ABCD, the sides of which are covered with dark wood, on the tongues lenticular glass hole in the sides dtum had i inside the cube. verb hollow another cube EF was erected, formatulqiie, fubtiliffima covered with papyrus and skin the sides of which are so far from the sides of the former cu they were in need of both, as much as was legitimately required to fpecies of things as best reprtefen- tandas ratio: these machines in the center the bottom E had a large adeb hole, as the first man is able to make a machine for I was a support, a man of faith through in the hole was pressed harder. Then the light The passageways are gaping with phtxophiolo, or any other matter any light may enter, just blindly rabat When this was done, wherever he wanted, it strengthened the engine, for it was so light compact material, as fine work by two it will be easy to carry. When these things were done, I was judged cunda fpettacula cunttis rabat, the mtrufus of the captives of men through the bottom hole, and opening fervently on the way; and behold within the hollow there are now various objects cra on the papyrus sides of the inner cube appearance, painted in various colors to be lost to the nations You will see the mountains here, cam pos, filvas, men, brutes, veiiations, and other Icenic fpetfcacula so afabre ex so far, that no pictorial art has so far gone to it he was approaching heretofore the gifts of the falconers, men who what will you do to those around you? Itus, lively, speech, movement of teeth, votu- M3onpode. we are flying, who so reprefen- to life were lost, so that nothing my whole life was interesting I will remember myself for a long time the hollow of the cube illuminated by external light he was able to read comfortably. It also provided the greatest benefit this machine For if the trees, hills, mountains and plains with rivers, and with the waters of the ruderibufque proj ecbo nes, hominuzis also, and portraits of animals to life to be drawn if they were, put the machine in front of them tebat: and behold, there was no profligate business, and fumma with pleasure, within the hollow of the middle cu the two sides exhibited by the fissure of the said things They offered to paint it on paper so to life, as anyone, however much H rrzflmtia Scenic ap ready Mirafpe- SaculftSd- flicfa Artis magnos Book X. Magic (Part It. unskilled in the pictorial art of portraits, or to express the envy of drinkers fet. How, indeed, fspecies in this battle na reprsefentatss poffint set up; it will be said in in the last chapter of this part. I understood, not so long ago, in Paris, lem machine fub the form of the Geftatory Seat I will make it, and at a great price divide fed to use to me fcribunt paflim they admit, the whole of the discovery, from this machine smoke whistle I do not want to repeat the same otherwise. If the device mentioned in the room nodtu you could, and there fub fufficienti il by the illumination of various things
oxen, they will pass those fpecies through the forest mum hole in the inner hollow cube la earth, and the same to light as to the sun they will be presented. I told him proportionately nation, because there was no little light, nothing pratftat, fed intenfum to didtam lim is required to be presented. Paraftafis IV. Scenic On the equipment of the scenes, and the lights you will confer art. , for what reason, indeed, Scenem, Comedy; , Tragedy; I am afraid that they will be presented alive must be killed Out of the works of which; oh minum extruded by hand, and elaborate so, then I got the pleasure of smoking, and then in his mind an incredible astonishment They helped to prey, indeed, on my right I say, the scenic form of any apparatus and the most beautiful fspecies are not in poor condition it seems like a bandage. For there in the little room that dem scope optical teaching faculty, fu- palatial palaces, huge temples, buildings several, both near and far, wandering widely in the streets, and in various houses inftru&m of the kinds of works, and the ways none of the inferno in the redtiffima length in a certain way, which the meeting of the lighthouses of other roads in the middle of the day they are seen, they place in a wonderful distribution there And even triumphal arches, fubli- and columns, pyramids, obelisks, and several others, almost innumerable with major, minor, and middle considering first of all the lights, the phymetry reason, the brightness of the multitude they are protected; the same lights with that device between they are composed of fire, like diamonds pos, stones, fmaragdos and other things tents, and the most precious stones of which age to be imitated and imitated. Here is the Sun emerging to the farthest by degrees com fcendere, and finally the waters below also you will see such a wonderful dress firia dressed faithfully, as they mock him with their eyes; put on a broom He does not want to be praised for his merits they will render their minds less astonished, while fu- a bound Angel gliding through the ether, or a planet passing through the air, or new the inviolence of any other thing they will be looked at. But what about those who are missing, 8t the royal pomp and equipment of the singing choir with great intrudis, of the veftimentum confpedtis with the novelty and elegance of many things more beautiful and pleasant? what is exotic from restrictions less? which in various places, as well the most important here in Rome for the miracle of I remember what paradoxes I saw; by which indeed the equipment together with the machines the prodigies would be happy to write in this place a mouse, if not him a Mechanical Thaumaturgist let's talk again If, therefore, the rich fcenae cir ca decryptan engine dilfofer, it will appear to you in the inner chamber of the shell I offer a fantastic theater to everyone his cheeks filled with a variety of things. This uni- Epitome the sudden additions of the world, the lightning from the sky of cetaceans. cafus, corufcations of heaven, dif. animals curfew, surrounded by birds and men the various manners and abominations of nations; all, however, within a small space; by which nothing more wonderful could be done I'm afraid Paraftafis V. Chromatica. Whether of various colored crafts, and pro- diofa mifiura OMiffis in this place with common colors mifturis, about them so much in this place, which We will do what they are hiding. But in three other works of color, that one not in the dung lane holds the place of the Tureas inven then, with which the paper is of an infinite kind of colors I love to paint a variety of things, but now I'm going to be swept away into the rough waves of the sea, soon into marble variegated, spread on the feathers of birds verficolors degenerating; found om wonderful and full of mysteries. The method of painting the paper with Turkish ink. GTTmmi drag the song for three days is immersed in the purest water, until in the white liquid is stirred: then it is filtered and put them in a cup with paper leaves the breadth, the depth of the sweep of two or three inches, is infused. Gb it must be boiled, so that it does not become more sticky, or even rarer water of this kind: for feces con- the colors of the water were washed, or because of the tenacity of the water; And they would explain the shining moon from the darkness without being properly deceived; or because of 'Mdgid 'Pdrdftaticd. given the rarity and excessive liquidity
they would retain the figures less faithfully. Condition The lighter the colors, this roUrum the future is worse. Lacquer to red; In give, as they call it, to the blue color by force they are given to the fittest; especially the Inda; my Let some color be white to its excess to be diluted Gold pigment and to the yellow, and the cerulean to the white, it is true heavy fint nature fua, while lighter de- fent, we are forced to apply. Individuals thyme, water, washed with egg white, beef quefellis, and oil, which they call Peter a lion, a small quantity of brown marble they are greatly washed away, The tiles are broken, not too sharp, neither too liquid, fed in a certain way tempered To brush, with a brush they are put into the water prepared beforehand, as let them pour out with water, and with a uniform tenor waste water; there is a great deal of mischief in fate the world, falling drops; lingula that fi would not happen, something new is infused, St is allowed to be mixed until desired the end is reached. The colors of the so-called apergendi are made of clay not even with any certainty, fed by him, whom experience will teach me to meet better with water; you will be completely in color if he hides himself, he will be surrendered by the afperfion. Cu the right also binds another thing, when the colors in I fell in love with my native St. gnes, but not diluted, and died they will return: perhaps the vice of this kind, or from the ipfo color, which from or from too much fur, which does not rarb it happened, it would arise. For if more than a pair of colors is loaded with water apart than what they ask for the bottom, St. water in they succeed, they are objected to less well by the other side ipfos supported by a reed, or a comb, minn. fl that you clean, and choose well the colors li they present their objections in which, however, the whole of this the splendor of shame, and the beauty of polished ef- it seems jShwmoAo Infuse therefore with colors, and water: luper- "'Fieie drops of various colors in Jappidis mo while covering: or so to paint the paper with pis, to bring back the hujulmodi Jalpidus; Then St Leaf paper; put the fennel in the water from the extreme edge of it to the beginning, until you will arrive at the other opposite: then all paper; the last part of the capula la sticking to the edges with a slightly running finger is pressed, for this that every color that fo- let it be relied in this kind of environment, from ipfa the paper is taped, so as not to spoil anything. Deni take hold of the edge of the paper as it stands, and is laid out in a flat place to be licked. dZVcffi. Or, not Jalpidus, fed other figures, as they will go vortices, like feathers, Sc catera, you want from first of all; But then I draw the pen here and there giving and returning, from one cup to the other you will lick up all the drops of oppositum, St you will produce a long After completing these steps with a long row of difpophyte con- blowing from the side of the smoky cup to the bottom for the transfer of colors dus they will be licked perpendicularly, fo lia, they express live feathers; which, in short, run in a circle, live fpiras, or other lines gulars, the same work of the pen will be allowed for it to twist the decision. And all this he had deceived the skilled workman; although for the colors float and flow like this men fenlim, and they infect the water, I go far ri delay to him. As long as with which the same ufui elfe poffes; can hardly be sure it is difficult to learn, since it depends on the experience tia: for with the colors of the jufeda, and the crowd the dior will be covered, then it will be poured out; St cleaned the cup carefully, other about no to be used Whosoever has the means of spoiling it well he had no doubt reached the gate of the house discover endless other discoveries There is no one who, however, is curious about Ledor I leave the gandas. Another method is more mysterious than the previous one. He gave this marvelous torch some $egg in it images to be dyed in France artificial wind They are spent in the image gins of all kinds of colors are fat, fed not femper, everywhere, nifi thenpotiffi- mum, when the lights have been polished (tingun for therefore do not look to him for images, fed by the beast with what artifice is this dyed, not even a candle to the candle, or during the day they show color to the shade rapid rice; but the sun and the light diverge from polished, some kind of fancy pictures
They offer fat in all kinds of colors, co- left of the rainbow color, and who is in the peacock's tail whether, and a table of birds' feathers, golden, pink, crimson, purple, and red starch Others of these colors ad the light, meanwhile, to others who were hiding, especially are perfect, from the hidden verb produ- push here the rest disappear. A stupid thing how much he deceives, when this color does not become earthy at all, not even on foot clothed in nothing, fed by hidden nature in by evaporation on paper, as let's say a little poft, produdns. That in the wind, when I first saw it, hafi ali how much, I admit, to the futility of the daculum: fed by nature I have made hiding places fubolfaciens, fecretum (which is not for mul You want to share this wealth of gold bat temptator) God's grace from nature here chroma tifmi in li gno Nephri tic how many git. true In Sale Ar boy amnesia color rumgenera the lion XXlXI Jrtis Magna Liber Magia fiars II I don't really want to take the whole thing I was saved by God, that Sc cUriofo Ledori at the end of ul I gladly share the reward. And so proceed. Take the fall of Communism snow, fall of Ammon, double the first, the trioli of Rome, of Cyprus, of green, of course, and the blue ones, the Tolfic aluminum, commonly known as dalas Rocca, as much from one as from al that in the steam bath of Ghymiftis no to, and soon where the liquefied falium miftu- ram vaporizing lenses, received images you begin to expose to steam, the colors fa- Libs and vitriol are naturally infused with steam mixed up, the images just got a little bit of color Nephi will be dyed. Moreover, the occafion of the genevais of this color He gave us further philosophies about those fantastic colors which water ex from that Nephritic wood not so long ago I add the new Hifpania (of which the fusible lib. i. match prop. i. we did) tindaproduces: the reason, cause, and origin of which have been cited instead he hid us, I finally realized that the cat He provided the snowman. For I think give water I will give for the different movements of the shadows very apparent, the same origin to have, than the colors of the holce lalinus, de to which we have already delivered, by evaporation with images. For when it was said let the wood burn with ammonia, in the fire ver6 ammoniac all colors female let them be hidden, as above mentioned in place of a little time it happens that those colors are refined, emerge into the light you of this opeftella, if he did not die, already they are on foot; of this help, In- swim in the sea invite, at a certain time fe foe they remain to be given. For what reason then with the help of this, too, to exhibit various dacula let's see. Let there be two vala BC, within the diaphragm fepa- rata: B becomes the inftar of the lute Cujufdam, or la bii j below the verb of any one also with greatness dinis, both were intruded by epiphtomy. Now let the vessel have two pillars, with which put another vessel A, with epiphtomy V, let both vessels A and B be filled with water piaiffima At the bottom of the brick you put B I like the image, so that from a certain weight O which you will never change at will, by force from a distance water is poured out. After this, I opened it epiphtomy S, let the water of the vessel B flow into the vessel C: and behold, the image was gradually impure at the bottom will grow so that not even one of his further fuperfit (lemper obfervan- I am sure to see the pun ctum This matter can scarcely be said, but let him hold the thunderbolts. If ver6 it in would you like to restore the form of the priest open epiphtomy V, water flowing from A, will fill the pitcher B again: with water thus that the shape of the image of the ufc will grow as it grows that to a treacherous figure; and that before He did not meet his eyes at all, but little by little by parts into a perfidious image from {Tur the nation will provide faith for the eyes to see. Corollary I shared with the moist, for different lu cis incidence also water in a different way show them colored And this I gave birth to for the colors that appear in the water I am very excited. If anyone could do better bring a cup of this chromatic prodigy rit, we will not be unwelcome to him, pol we are allowed CHAPTER V De Paraftafi Anaclaftica.
Whether things will be told through the rays exhibition of water and glass bodies. From this it is clear that the golden figure of the sun is supposed at the bottom of the valley be any other, from the rising of the Sun to the setting sun tion perfectly together with the difference of hours the rents, which I have wasted in vain incribes, to be presented Corollary II. It is true, too, that this would be a great work for me rabilius, fi at the bottom of the figure will be folded j for, however much the weight of the eye may be changed, a nothing will appear from the figure. Paraftafis VI. Experiment II. Which fuh waters, through ffaras Vitreas, Vitra polygons The cups are presented. Experiment To conjlrue the image of those clothes, as from the same the living thing gradually dwindled into nothingness let him depart, and from nothing again the bottom of imperfection the gene grows. video i. Icon. A wonderful thing is a cold: for this with the help of things otherwise hidden, invite Him XJt images suddenly. let them compare O they are difp Flat container with a medium glass bottom benz, pitch, refined, lime, and other similar things with the rest of the class of miftura and at the bottom of the glass, let a kind of wheel be made in the light of hydro- containing various figures round about; hsec ro- mmmm. this circumambulation creates some figures, others it will manifest itself, preferably with a cover the light should have an aperture as large as image Magui f-forographkd. the images to be displayed For an image below the bottom, and the opening reimposing it will be so elevated, as in fuperficia it seems to be represented by water. That fpe Some people are greatly surprised while they do not polish to catch, how Let the tears be compared to the water, which is like this but nowhere, neither within the water, nor in the water are found in water. The experiment was difficult There is no cile, just a glass bottom well prepared Corollary. From these it is clear, by what reason Planetary hours by this method riumlydre- poffit to the exhikeri: That is, the wheel of the lingulis the bag, the law lifts the planet around the clock theme What fpedtaculum some hydro- Who does not see that the mantle has Ipecius? But all this is curious about Ledtor's genius we leave the work to be carried out. Experiment III. Ter Vitreas fphoras, Jhe phlaUs, ferum to present fpecics. I put the glass vials into the bowl be depicted in any shape. They note while, figures in light glass and brass the color of the image has this property starch by jn certain diftant, the image can be on the web I will give xem7mt the project with all the others you present And so in the glasses of Iphaerus when you have got it, put back a bowl full of water You would have been able to light the image of the tongue of Ipecius whether in the environment of the glass Jedfca papyro not faeces and fi from objects If they were to be presented, he would demonstrate: than the projection, be the machine in para ffcafi You will apply all those things which have been indicated We exhibited there, exhibit here also on white paper through an intermediate lens You will pass through the fpecies, just as in the novel We teach Steganography. Eft another way, in which most of them are in the heat Christmas to present lo- lens Place the bowl inside the opening in the wall right away full of water, then in the wood attach images to the limb of any world vying for the glory of the left, as much as possible it is a little short of space from the bowl. Then from the candles below polished the globe with heat circ and behold, on the other side, there was a silt through the bowl the images float like waters you are not slanderous fpedtaculo fpedtantes they will offer a cat.
Experiment IV fer prlfmata Vitrea, fiu Vttra trigona s to exhibit wonderful fpetlacula. In the first book on the matter of the prism vi- the three, the fire of the trigon of the glass, has been given to fate; now he craves an opportunity to do the same they produce a theory for the uninformed let us apply the gift. A triangular glass known as an iris tube it is innumerable of faith shedding colors; as but the fucceffum should be paraphtatic ap when it is ready, it is necessary to make a little more of the leaf so Therefore, you will present the rainbow first, in li place I can see the sun's rays passing through the glass permitted: for in the hollow the rainbow with with all the differences of colors will express Corollary I. Paraphatic. As the room bursts with dung
[the mother's mother is seen to be angry. video ram a. Trigona glass y. or any number if you will, let them be united in one, so that and let them touch the corners of the lolis, as here in You see CD fa&nm. This polytrigon in through the opening of the Sun you expose, and there the Sun a ray passing through the glass, the whole room raised in a certain way, and decorated with light he will paint, as if he were a paradylus report Who spoke from you will soon see new fpedtacles color, much different from the former; become but when you look through the glass, everything is for you presented in abundance, in an infinite variety of colors tate nefeio see what coelefte presents they will be Corollary II. As a whole room with every precious stone let him get ready to go. Look at the picture ram Iconifmi Among the eseteras Ipedtacula, of which the greatest I remember the pleasure I felt what I am about to teach is not least for it is scarcely possible to say how much wonder to seize the fpedantes: and so for it is given Take any number of polyhedral glasses in this order, which here in AB fig. done you see, connected in the manner of rays, and the shaped ligules are polyhedra his figures are fint, of every kind they multiply push rods are used, which are widely used by many people they are in trouble. To finish this, in place fpedtaculo presenting the deputed, polytri the previous opening was entered, He is exposed to the rays of the sun. Wherefore the gods of the sun, the triangles penetrating the liftemate you will receive this polyhedron, which in both mi- i i i tificd Ax0s bibet- X refracted, diffused, the whole room suddenly involuntarily a little bit, that is it is of every kind of precious stone He will adorn himself so magnificently and magnificently, that you must confess nothing to yourself as a coward. Take a look here you will drink emeralds, pyropes, stones, amethysts, thus naturally reprasfented, as vel-fehfus ipfos with the wonderful vivacity of the colors they are mistaken for the color of the light in such a vast He was a traitor to the diversity of his works. all the material colors of beauty he had not been deceived. , Corollary III. Rotam-ftettatdm in a. .dark room pueJentare, quece circumvolutionefua coe lum Jellatum report. If the green room was lifted into the sky If you would like to convert this to a polyhedron, do so lyfte prW fyftema polished around with foliar rays WixLe- axem opening feneftrse entered, to in- Wcpoffit ftar the wheel goes round: fefejucnndiffi- mum will offer a fpedtaculum; for all the shape of the most luminous stone in the world a&a the sky breathed inside the cubical obfucurus light, not to the end of the astonishment of the beholders, they will bring All these things he marveled at tion will occur, fi inside the concave cube pa of the pyraces, whose fupra Paraftafi III. man we made a correction, on the sides of the cube they are fanned out. Experiment V. As a room, a fire room, and everything in it men, green, and of a given color you can see the funny ones. MIzaldus Porta this fpeclaculum ex they have a lamp whose oil becomes wax gineo color together with tic&um. I have a better red face I see through a glass fphare, feu phia lam, or of green glass confederate, or the colon is dyed with water of an azure color. For if the opening of the windows of this type of bowls really with lights from the rear you were, she the whole room, and all equipment, use appearance of people, aru they will soon become infected with the ginous color. The same con he dyes it yellow, red, blue, and black fill the water of the bowls with color; everything for they will be imbued with learned colors: fi verb to pollute the bowls with yellow water, Sc red co lore tindfcas, golden color next to those which book i. Prob. I said about the mixture of colors the mouse will be born. Thus, for the miftura of colors, the bowl, too, dipped in a different color, di- They will fill the room with bright colors. Prefer tim fi light was in the middle of the bowl: that by what reason it should be done, we taught in Ar te Magnetic book Diacrifis Author. Whether near Jhaxilau, Albertum, The gate, the house is full of slain caterifs that animals should be repmfented; and whether light the lamp on any animal to be transformed with the help of light. Porta ex Anaxilaus, and Albertus, in many respects
He brings, with which leaves to light the lamp I like to rest in the rooms, adeb- that men of kindred, and equine captives It is thought that the bus will present a conflict. The truth of which is to be examined in this place he lives; in part, not to be surprised by the novelty of the matter all fall into grave errors; in part also, as the truth leaves you, a bus of dyes, impofturi, should find a place. But there are four men from the Repub, literary Mdgia (PdMsldticdl ytp Let us do him a most deserved injury We have already chosen the words to be quoted; and so he says in the last book of Natural Magic: I thought long and much (says Porta) whether anciently ignorant of the secrets of the hujufinod, or they would reflect on the truth, as it is said to them, and they are promised by the impostors; nor parumga- a living rope, when among the ancients I found many rim, to whom these were soon s pueferiim Anaxilaus, Plinian adbiben I give; and we have not lost a little in finding these things not to fill (Iram hifioriam a horse, or something of the kind, should be seen approaching so proceed. A horse ahfcinde's head, or afir. onm dead, lest the virtue of his ejuf become weak and make a pot of ficltle capacity full of oil, and a little fat neat, the mouth with a lid, and the tenacious forts with mud, fire slow, so that it boils completely boiling days of oil, and the extracted flesh runs into the oil9 as naked jpeclcntur ojfa, the ball is pounded, dusted. let it be permeated with oil, to which ca pita bread Similarly in the lamps the cords of the pei are fattened in the middle, and not near a and not far, that the matter should flourish, and monfiruofi afpe- ttu fpeclabere From the human head recently because oil in the jungle, the face of the animals He introduces threats: Jic with various heads of animals You will make the bodies more beautiful, and you will set them on fire their houses were flooded. Which, trust me, close the pe- tiori: for they were hidden by the ancients as secrets and the gods are not easily extricated from them. In a different way but Anaxilaus teaches, and not to the invalid: of horses let the virus be taken from intercourse, noviqu& lampadi I light the fire, the heads of men, equine vifui monflriftce will reprcefentaunt: de the same thing is produced by the affines. They do this, which Por he promises. Each fertile na let us examine the principles, so that what in such a slippery business to be believed let's be real. First of all, the heads of the ani were removed malium, and put it in a new pot full of oil when you are fat, it is ordered: shots, they are also struck by the ball, and from the dust make an ointment mixed with oil, which ca They must first anoint the transformed pita. See, I put on a funny way, laugh for he thinks that he the figure of a horse, or the head of a relative, in oil to be so impressed by this art, that it I will emphasize the imprefion fspecies extra fee present But because the connection is oily onopara- liquid with the shape of the head akin? what el-ftafit. jiy light the lychnium to reprefen I do not see that it has a certain proportion. what else is the flood of human capital when im with onoparaphtatic oil of virtue, ad We are to represent a man with a similar head much less easy to conceive; neither any principle based on nature here appear, from which this phantom pnopa- I i i i xaita- Art magn# Book X. Magia Lars fpio let us be able to bring down the rafraticara. Veliiiim this head of the kindred in oil I was fi He leaves the confidence impreflam, or not really He leaves a certain man fed by the fympatic leaves he acts safely; both ridiculous, the lie is indeed convicted; not before me how ridiculous, how often I give the subject hisses. All water, figs re- insoluble natural fluids This is characteristic of the fibi, as im- preffion of any figure capable; we are not talking here about species things reflected in the water; for they are not they are imperfect species, fed from fuperficia fpeculari ad oculus repercuffe fed de those which present in the center of the liquid there When this happens, someone is no longer a force det, a figure of a horse's head in oil impreflion eff impofible? Additionally, that oil to represent things ma
xime must be illuftre, Sc diaphanum But who does not see from this chapter that it is related made by elixir in oil, oil, I will not say to continue in fuo natural breath, fed quan then as much as in the right scrutiny, denfum- from which all the transparency of the oil was removed therefore to generate impreffio fspecie capital equine impofible ell But let us examine the other part, which they think by infinitive a kind of hidden activity a kind of sympathy has arisen, this exhi to become a monstrous bition. The stupidest no less than unskilled reasoning founded on no probative natural principles. Refutatse Qi[d thus I prove: Every actual fpecie- etc. the reprisal of rum, of which this is proper instead we act, it is neceflarib in effe to be done depends on the actual prototype object, Sca- no one can see the fig tefl objet, nifi that truly, and really or apparently exifts; and put on the light He cannot help but exfoliate with a bright body; so you will put the thing in a dark place I can't reprimand you for any reason, truly, really tive, of which they are, as it were, to live vicars. But as a man on a horse ca it may be seen that the pite is confluent, but it will not be recognised there is some fanfiable prototype that which expresses him; fed this for no reason it may be conceived in ineffable oil; false therefore this principle is irreconcilable with the principles of nature. I said the truth that is to say, to exclude the ancients, to whom the magi with the help of Dasmon they were able to impress the eyes showing the figure to the eyes, as it really is they do not exit through the eye: figuti in fco- tomia also, and melancholy to the labourer we see the bus coming, who see many things which has no extra-living exiftentity bent But we are talking about oil, which is equine with his head impaled on a stake, and for a long time macerated, it is said to obtain force reprselen of the horse's head; what we say indeed, a most shameful lie, and a mere one priming art to all natures you find it contradictory. His meals too they are all those which Albert the Great falsely will be brought, paraphtatic phammata: as, while they remove the heads from the mud that they smear men, fe men fub a related form is thought to be fpedtaturus, 8c, that you may see a man with a triple head Nem, he accepts this operation Pfeu- do-Albertus Take from the dead ajin's hair, Magic me- and make a cord and tie. Take the marrow of the tamorpkofis ojfe principal of the right shoulder, mifce with Jllbe7tu virgin rod, and line cord, and put fu- by the threshold of the house; and entered the house they shall have three heads: fic who are in the house they will be seen as they enter. In which experience lie with as many words, as many fuperftions fint, fum thought unworthy, as in that matter by digging the time To these also delusions are recalled, all that Wec- kerus from Albert, Porta reports, in which nothing more foolish than that Pfeudo-Alber- you want a man with such nonsense to exhibit the form of an angel. And these about the transformation of men into animals let them hurry For this reason, however, these meta- the natural morphofs of the spectacles with the help of the will be completed, it will be said in the next cftatus of Catoptric Magic. No other It is a game that many people think is f this for the purpose of pofle in the room some things I also sketched the fpecies of the past on the wall really And in the first place, the Gate was on this account to present a house full of grapes fe poffe pu tat When the grapes begin to deflor efc er e already, the vessel xomm ut with pure oil filled below dip the stem with the leaves: lest it become firm the wind blows from here to there: let that folly strike, with a gypfat cover, and a fur coat, yet rehclo the hole through which the petiole is inserted, so im having finished staying Whence he received the perfect grape when it is ripe, it is squeezed out with a cloth, and it is squeezed out the leaves are boiled in oil for a few days: at last I will light the lamps, and you will see all the vines full, surrounded by leaves and trees you must Beautiful fane words, 8c to perfua- it must be wonderfully composed; fed not surprisingly Ris Ledtor; Agyrtaru, Circumfora It is the property of the neophytes, I believe las the verminous multitudes of fpeciofis mercenaries
to divide by words For who is not strong? he gave, grapes dipped in oil, not so much to come to maturity, fed oiled pe with a net, the prodigal, who had lost his way, went into another would the compote degenerate? Given that but I do not conceive it to maturity to become but no one the ftro does not see any expreffie make-up with oil permission of no power to represent while to obtain So try it out then, he painted all the borders with which he had a house presents a silver, fi mask from the tail la a lamp of certain black millet oil: indat or with whom the whole house was destroyed to present the bus full, the fern has been ex fat, and black and burial cloth, and that in oil the trumpet should be blown. What, I ask, here the 1st Ser-pann of funerals when the ex- inhibition? Apage with infulfis hujufmo- di, fuperftitiofifque machinations. gnoice, Ledtor, may you see me longer that the children of this kind should be put to death; for this it was given to me by him, as a curiofa, and unskilled youths of this kind comments, which are not uncommon and the Lufionef of the Demons enter, om let him beware of fraud, --nor by any reason to them let him be relieved, the fruitful nature of the snow: the prince pious first examine the exact balance of reason tis, in all things not so good rather than what ought to be done, let him persevere. It opens up a lot of time from the Authors the lowest: the strong one cited most closely, which: in addition the opinion of all the fcholas is also irrepen such an experience, however, is the greatest of all things, falsehood, lies, and full of lies, rifque Efle taught and confirmed. In not any imitation of nature, fed id that the operation of nature as much as possible Confentaneum, must be chosen. Wherefore but the fruitful operation of nature must be presented, it must already be said. Experiment VI. A room full of uVdrum figures, fru- To exhibit oxen, animals of Jerpen. rUplic reason these phammata are presented T-pofluntvel with the help of the intrument of the noftri Pmtmicn pafaftafi propofiti perfpecierumin ob- mtt. the injection of fat, or of glasses with help First, it will be instilled in this way. Let them be done on the sides any number of pantoptic machines the smallest branches; then outside the machi for next to the holes is an image of grapes, or another fr udder, the Sun is exposed to i radian put the grapes through the holes in the outermost part the inner side of the cube, inside the con- for the abundance of holes, grapes they will present everything in full figures. The same it happens, instead of grapes, apples, pears, etc you will put it as a fraud, or even a quorum you could have any figures of animals; liver from all sides you fly different things, lingulas in the former correponding sides but they will also bear different figures, ldtka. Broadly. lat glass polyhedron, fieu, criftal- whether, of any of the sides, in which the sides of the rum should be painted the same the image: for these were exposed to the rays of the rays of the sun fpecies, juxta the number of sides in nrw, r4 They cover the opposite wall of the room he will cross, so that the whole room appears bit full of images: To be done in the sides You will paint a polyhedron of grapes, a room of grapes rum be smitten, smitten it will be filled, and I will tell you about the rest. These things he will have a larger nose, fi figure per they will be passed through an intermediate lens that the desired fucceflum will not be strengthened at all, the snow was a great polyhedron; which is necefle, is made from one fruit of criftal adapted to various faiths; fed by the fruits of the purest glass, so that it is joined with a pin, that it may be one refer to the polyhedron. More on this see the relevant information in Catoptric Magic. CHAPTER VII. Of Djropdrdfiafi, fie of Igneqrum fpe show off the straps. DE fpedtaculis aeres in progress bus fuse didtumeft: fupereftutde Pyroparaflafi, five fiery repre- Let's say something about fantasies. In which But we are so confused that we do not know what to do Light and Shadow belong, let us convey, but the rest of the prodigious works of fire in To expand the subterranean world with the help of in which I speak of the wonderful power of fire in things Experiment i. On the friction of fire. The fire of the whole nature, with which it was painted
it does not fuse anything, so with that end everything in it they rush to destruction; therefore of a lingular nature providence for all things fat, as it is the most difficult of all, so it is not wanting anywhere, not only from the ferns, fed from any matter can be driven. Yes, some The people of America are two pieces of wood with the turning of one inside the crene high instead of ferns they would like to make fire. Which but the fire was easily kindled by rubbing the wood piant, fupr a in li b. didtumeft: Laurus, Rhamnus, Holly, and Tilia. From all these they make a drill, so that the friction makes it more lively, and to work more persistently; conceived but a stem of ivy, the filvefiri of life, and with thousands of designs, and thoroughly with all humour empty wood I laurel laurel, cane, with a cane and a rope he quickly and violently I i ii times stir three times with a certain minute quantity of sulphur, and others dry nutrients, such as the smoke coming out of a flame let the mother conceive. Whether it is possible to become a stone, I ask will stir up the fire, G? below the water let it burn Pud fecretarum rerum Authores, ar let me find a certain stone with of making, who in any wet, even fputo when wet, he will stir up the flame: which expe Many people are surprised at the news; but when none I have never seen a worker like this I had heard of the dangers of experimenting doing what I found out about it, then I will appear, where before the stone I will bring the This is the miftura of the stone. A stone magnet in a pot, or something else confimile vessel cast alive kick imrner- fum, with the addition of a certain amount of caiphonia; when you have opened the vessel, that 'pot of chalk around. to fpiramento, oven, until cooked there, it is put in: then it is exempted into the pot be injected, and the chalk again smeared in the furnace be imposed, and this pragmatism as long repeated until he was furiously enflamed: for in this way he miftura, as soon as the wet con it goes into flames. So they hold either hours But I, who made the experiment of the matter, I found nothing of these things, whence Ledtor om nia, which we found most abundantly among the Authors there, the snow first manifested itself, by experiment it is clear, I do not want to believe it at random. They are for it is unheard of, which; fruitful theoretical ra the most certain, St infallible, erfi put into practice no fuc- Let them be strong. Hifce I did not want to bring anything in this whole book I assure myself of the same experiment first will make the matter difficult. For if the truths come out, which The authors tell about this stone, already there would be no Prince who did not fec hu he would wear a suit; no one else in the fire of the fire-boards country when you so easily flame from another place We want to have plenty. But according to St but that should not happen often. Enter the deities of this stone are Magnes, Cali- jffionia, pitch, and quicklime: nothing of these the leadership will be effusive. Great cold by nature, St ficus, nothing from fe to ul it can contribute to inflammation; pitch also the snow to the contadfcum of fire, fire and vapor ris periphiogii, sdeft prefecting another flag ma, it will do nothing. If you add water, the same you will make the water of the camp combustible bring it as you can with the fire w. Calci au tem alive afufa water smoke a certain ca wakes up the lorific, fed who is in the flame cenfnm obfejrvarit, I saw no one. So Artis JHagjut Book X. JfCagia (Part II, Some are hot nothing inflammable can do that, nifi which becomes imbued with some moisture in the fat then but the calx is a long-lasting weapon in the ficfimmest, 8t with all the moisture, fat and he did not defecate in poverty and the ashes will go away, whence all inflammation he is incapable. But that only ca the network will be cut off, this is due to a large amount of air porofiflimse of inexifting lime, 8t of water fu. I will play with the peffufa, from which the strong air will come agitation, to be driven from the violent end of the air tation, intense heat, so as to arise necef. lannitro, quicklime, camphor, sulfur Alas, Relina turpentine and burning water a miftura can be done, which; to the other a flame; apofita is very easily inflamed, and in rather than suppressing the inflammation let it increase, but never within the water; with the end of the air the flame cannot be made to last
he loves if it were to happen, it would burn below the water ret. From this it is clear the false pretense, which some of them make the miftura fe poffe pu so much so that the fire burns with the waters of the sea. Nugse toys For who does not know, contrary to Mr no nature; be principles; like fire, I am great I was swept away by the flame, and by the waters from every direction shall the rue either burn, or be inflamed? Can fire be given to the unquenchable? I am not ignorant of many of the lamps found in subterranean places, from im at a memorable time there cenfifque, that falsb fibi perfuafifte, lamp- let it be done, that it may burn perpetually; of in which business fat is by no means difficult I think it should be disappointed when I try it then of all things, and not until I have fumed; Fed use this material as a proper Mundo fub- let us return to the earth, where the mind opening this up more fully, in various ways let us find those who are the model of nature the lamp burning perpetually longs to be finished. I will not, therefore, in this place speak of unquenchable fire. ii, fed from a strong flame of fire, without any ven a whirlwind, or the intensity of the rains extinguishable, as well as personal experience I share the evidence. take the spring you need live sulfur oleirefinse falnitri olibanil no. camphor; TiairM unc. petroleum i. the best living water; difficult unc. Let the mifta fimul be exposed to a slow fire, Sc will become a miftura, with which it will be soaked, St in polished pots, and kindled an unquenchable fire they render a guide. Otherwise it is easier. Sulfur purifiim-um with wax equally Sulfur. diflolutum prmftat obtained fi eX it with wax You have formed a miftura candle. They say fummiS a jet of water made of aluminum vtt oil [Darafiatic magic, to last perpetually with burnt oil: fed this To be strong with the help of the fuccel, and other things let them give way, scarcely ever If anyone from Asbeft he will be able to extract the oil, and from the thing would be covered with a feather no doubt he would have progressed more successfully. But about hilce mifturis ex propeffb, we promise to use I crawl in the world, giving to God we will give "Where Sc I believe, some around this material curxofo Ledor fatisfa- we will give Pyroparaphtic Experiments I Bring the light below the water to unna- Useful information. We said in the first book, the bottom of the sea especially in deeper places, so I'm going to make sure that the urinals don't end in anything they are able to act with me. On this basis, then light to the interior of the uncorrupted sea but it may be carried, some will write so. Let there be a lamp of any size, The windows were first duly entered which, however, is so consolidated that nothing in He made the waters flow. In this you put lu men ellychnio from the preceding mifturse I'm going to put it together. When, indeed, the flam in the end it is not possible to be lifted up in the air, let it be a long lamp made of leather bofcide, the last opening of which ex it is made of thick wood, which pro- let him hold the bofcide, and instead of fpirament He travels They say this lamp is not water resistant I was extinguished, because he set everything on fire they are not necessary to be reconciled. -ego I have learned to put this into practice and some of the urinals of the Melites dedfudum, but fucceffu void. Speculation some of the best, to use all from the genius Merfenno, in his daughter's sea voyage I fed the closed accounts with difficulty be brought to work. Who is the canal co Riaceo promises immunity from the mound the water flowing through the external orifice grafted? Who will then rekindle what has been extinguished? the lamp, who fpondeatca the duration can you For if they are scarcely ruddering, in tempests, how much less leathery ma teria? But you will say, the calm sea is tempting while Nor do I rest here. For the air that he will pour out faith: fed around the lamp, in in the deeper parts of the sea, thus into nature water will degenerate, as too much flame suffocated by the humidity of the air he groaned. However, the chicken is not so large in depth, and a leathery channel fat am I pray, I will not again become like a lamp. indeed, in the rivers, by this kind of artifice sometimes the fire was fueled by water, and earth I remember the little pieces of me from the owl: that is to say, to make a lamp for that reason, as the head of a man, or of another animal
express For the light within me was kindled Terrific. it will strike terror into those who touch it, and other things from the water several pieces of water water Thus, the ghosts of the Dsenions, the fiery pifces, dra You will present cones and similar water. When he has no problem with these things, I leave Ledor to consider further. See also on the nature of the ball-frog, Sc photograph book Magnetic Art fol. we have brought back the fuse. Experiments with Flame. II. Use paper to line the wire Jlibilis If someone drinks a glass of cold water filled with the former, he tied the thread around it, in He will come with a kindled flame for no reason I want to cover this, which is still a coal of fire? 2on it is the natural cold of snow, and of water, and of metal li, that while they act on the flame, it in They will return a weak and vague one, with which to be infested with a twist, the thread will be freed from all wear and tear. The same thing will happen to any leaf of paper co no, the flame of any candle immediately moved it, and from the far side let him blow immediately: for he was cold with his breath fada paper, none fuppofit from the flame will take harm. Experiment III. Of Camphor. Amphora materia oppidb inflammabf' opposites From here she threw it into the water give, and start, or in the middle of the opposite element, it will be so easily ignited, acfi A bunch of hot fuel is faint. I saw no h no one who makes a snowball camphora not at the end of the astonishment of those who came they lit Some frozen fruit Can- burning the fruit of the horse j the greatest lu I know the increase of the prsebuifle. I know Circumforaneum, who when he wanted to the great astonishment of men the fire he was me Experiment IV. In the air the Dragon 'Flying', and other to present a portentous fmulacra of things. I knew this by finding some of the Fathers among the greatest barbarians in India escaped from danger. They were detained in prisons, and while the mode of fe from fervour they would kill to deliver, no one is more clever than that he found some device mine Artis magna Book X. Magia Part II The impoftura You're busy. threatened before by the barbarians, return the fires to Nifi rent, in a short portent they will experience the wrath of the Gods. Barbarians the word rifu to those who receive the thing, the dragon he finished it from the fubtiliff paper, in which in the middle, a miftura of julphure, pitch, wax, He ordered them to be dressed in order to start the battle for it would illuminate, and the words like these for In the former idiom, the legend would provide the IRA of God, which is a fad: then the longest the tail attached to the air started the engine. Which was soon carried away by the wind a kind of horrible fire of a dragon. The barbarian infiltrates the movement of the phantom I was amazed at the great stupor, and now I was disappointed I was angry with the Gods, and with the words of my Fathers manners, for fear of having to fight the punishments prescribed ban Why did the prison suddenly open let those whom they detained go out freely runt: in the meantime the engine was seized, and fired blinded by fire, clapping as if trembling The bridge failed to be driven. So the Fathers na that which is not much gold if they could, they would get the fear of the enemy run And although this is also the case for children in Eu well-known clothes, because yet often and from diver- I was asked for a lawsuit, machine; build a factory to drink; I will do it in this place at an opportune time, as soon as I can. Here I add: be someone he would have a falcon brought up in those clothes, as the sparrows obey the voice of the birds, he especially able to perform miraculous works: a string for the falcon's foot bound to the machine I will give him through the air, which he would like to bring down he swore at the nod of the sparrows, and hence this by engineering works prodigious prodigy to carry out Fabricet Machina 'Volatilis'. Flat made of fine reed sticks quadrilateral ABCD, whose length the width is made in proportion to the same width in the middle of which two; the reeds are brought down and they are fastened together, so firmly, that in the de- a cord tied to a cuff, imp then, when he was gone, he could be funny. To this screen the trunk of thy body, of the same reed the mats are attached, for the same reason He teaches you to be in charge of the figure. So it was formed dragon's shield for a while, you will paint with suitable and more suitable j
and the string (which; the longer it was, the deeper you press the engine) instead of the debt to attach At a time when there is no wind the air enjoys too much, nor too much tranquility Inachi prepared from a higher place for the commissions of the air, which I will soon conceive blown by the wind into the airy regions, I was there but to those who look, the truth of the dragon {foot, not with the end of fear, or of wonder he will not present But how much does the string go? you will be more attracted, or the same will be relaxed you can be carried away by the wind, it will be forced on the greater you, so much so that you went deep together with him pulling fe, stronger pulls effeda. Hac by art, on the day of Afcenfion Chrift Domini by Angels flying in the air, I hardly deny to be presented. The surprise of these nem fpedals, will increase a lot of fi- some lights on the machines around an arrangement animated by the motion of the air; dul they will have a certain concert, with bells attached to it. Uoffurna fpeBacuU. IF nodurna presents various fpedacula would you like, the whole machine inside is empty, ex leafy, and not at all transparent, very light however, the material must be finished: at the bottom yet on the sides of St, the figures are elaborated rum, which you trusted to represent, char and then the fubtiliflima, first dyed again with oil you shall cover it, and it shall be as if you were burning candles inside, let the shape of an animal flow through. If indeed fpeda- you would dare to present some portentous find out the letters which are the candles of the interior in the lighted bus, in darkness, in heaven They will provide the footings and legends. Say AireeXhi- but he can scarcely bear the amount of horror, titions a little bit of wonder blessed, when they cannot conceive, who in such remote air rit, Sc how the airs impreffably stick together. I was like a prodigy with this artifice I will give the whole army to flight I believe the people turned, especially the Barbarians, He is a Turk of every kind, who knows everything, and to whom they take no account of rum, for omens and to receive portents If any verb wants, as the machine poft various demonstra- it vomits out fires; he will do it, fi machi for the gunpowder in the canals of the foetus he has broken, and the thread of the fulpuras is hot; he brought down a candle, which; soon to the place Didi's sulphuretted son was consumed, he will seize it Sulphurous fuel: here attached to the canal the whole machine into a fiery fury ani Hifloria wonder about night lights Viforia against Fi- los Scotus rum H. cgi conc it is given with help no matter Stiluca The magic of Ddraslatkd. He will enliven and crawl with fire he will break out a terrible fire on every side. j Corollary. De jfquila Regtomontani y Columba Architce A Quila that infamous, which through the ages Charles V. Casfar of Nuremberg Regiomontanus is brought to show, as Architce Columba, and no other, nor this with the same artifice, exhibited, see this folns bit, which we found here more closely hit For those who teach, a certain balance tion, or hidden in the proportion of weights, in the end the hidden dependence on the mover through when they want to act, they hallucinate a lot with all these Static principles gnent s as it should be said in Thaumaturgus by our mechanic. For I can scarcely say, how much sharp from the meanest beginning and the eloquent characters poffints to elicit miracles be able to combine things rightly, and say them appropriately to rere, Sc to produce with latent dexterity they want
I wish they had wrapped the knot in a blanket they would depart, and the staff they gave It dawned on him, and he came to the border it is, and whoever saw it, heard it tells The king was afraid lest the story should come out into the public, and for that reason it should be discovered, pri mum teaches among other things too the smoke of liujufinod Then the guards He sneered at them, lest they should be divinely admonished mulgando coelefte god no doubt for a pity, they would return the least. So don't by acknowledging the war they are bound, and in truth the invalid is by no means cowardly which I am infused with water, and with a clever trick it was a machine, the result taught. For by the power of the god Pidi, the female, twice, was clean, to ex the trembling from the Scots to the internment so de so that not even the rest of the ce were suffocated. You see, then, how many things there are, and how insufficient dad fpedacula hujufmodi nodiluca mate
things can be presented. Experiment V. For a long time, the fiery road was filled with the same thing, fon to present a fiery theme. The light shines in the darkness and presents wonders. We have spoken in the first book of the miraculous light the tate of those whom the knot shines; now let us teach to apply the prodigious light. If you blow first from any material formed, their eyes, their mouths, their ears You will bring down the light material, and at the right time instead of a knot, they will give a great deal I am looking at the material of horror, and the pleasure of the greatest things they are, as a fruitful example will teach you. It is read in the Hifloria of the Scots: Cum Pidi Cenetus the Second King of the Scots father They will kill Alpinus; But Cenethus the fubdiiis fear the revenge of the fu- to carry out the lie without any perfualions pofet, and already the greatest part of the nobles, and of the soldiers of the paternal kingdom, What a clever thing to do. Princes He received the congregants of the regions kindly. Hence also a feast, and worthy of a feast you are do not weep in the clay the rooms, while they were all filing, the molds He sends men with a staff in his right hand made of rotten wood, made of knotted leather the pifcium is not defquamato, which&ipfurn at night it overflows in a strange manner, as well especially with the staff of Lucifer helping the heart then instead of oxen, trumpets, horrendous The squires resounded with a loud voice to be prepared for the king's death. Pidos, they will soon give punishments to make the Scots proud messengers of faith from God. It was easy to form unwilling to impose, since they did not come tes, nor do they wish to see them go away. For E St infaladibus, fire to the sea of which in the book a while it is, hu a certain disease, whose liquid flows into drops tus presents fiery sparks profusely. This source Therefore, with a liquid, a fiery fountain is thus exhibited. twice Let there be two bars AB, the first of which from the second one you put A, into one you put B, the other ex fummo latere vafis B, in fummnrri va thread A, the third from the bottom of thread A, goes to the outside having been brought forth by the word, let it be the fountain of Heron. This perado, vessel A humor nodulico memo the rate is filled, and the machine does not stop what the air desires to enter, be delightful in it would you like to present a piece of darkness, in fu- A, the labrum in the pelvic modurn by pouring out the hollow water, which within ca nal DC, in vafe B, latent air ex pellet by phyphone EF, air into moisture vafis A impinging, while fimifl confiftere they cannot, with the humor through the canal AG, ex- fur, fiery rain, living spring, or when the cafu is replanted, he will present a fiery lily, Innumerable other things of this kind are desired to be presented all of which should be brought to bear on the curious subject let us not be too particular let's see each other Look where; in Artenoftra We handed over the magnetics of my little ones ris, which with the help of Phofphori, five Phengitis no- ftri, whom in book fufe together with men but we decripfimus ejufdem, it becomes poflunt s we delivered Meanwhile, here are a few things for us to bring down innumerable other indicafle fuf- let it be done As for the fiery arts, there are five different ones the miftura of inflammable things, see Mun while the other subterranean L C Jirtlz magna Liher X. Magia 'Part XX. CHAPTER VIII. Signs through of making glasses f)e Dioptrica, five de Vitris panrofcopiis, Telofcopiis and their various forms ejfeclibus TRIA, therefore, in all the glasses of Telofco let us trust in pious use, and tan- than to produce the intended effects we require necefaria, matter, form, and the legitimate adjustment of the glasses.
Of the glass material. We need a perfect hall, ho- IVAniogenea, continuous. perfect When finished in glass, it removes all color the thing something imperfect in the same, which leaves the color For perspicuity through material should be homogenized nea: whence they are excluded, pebbles, sand, blisters, 8t different teeth, or perfpi- I am immune to the parts of my body, and to others and to my terrors riches, which they freely offer and the fuperficies are returned to the town St diicontinua But in order that due the glasses were to be obtained from the Bent Efle is continuous, throughout folida, not at all poropha, as poison. They are hiding for in the glass however equally con
I see certain veins, waves, undulations, eddies, eddies, mists, smoke, artists negligence brought into the glass, while the material fire, and except the soft pot they draw very well, they act, they turn, they twist that they turn, pick up, corrupt; for these things together would destroy me brings to order, St. cleanliness of fpecies cheap All this in clear water or they are clearly open with a slight disturbance.
Of the form of the glass. The form which is put into this material is artificial, of course, or flat, or fphasric, and it either hollow, or convex Both this and that, well which in slow motion is the same, or even as one fa becomes convex. The other plane is slow one and the same, so that all glasses are made by art it is elaborated, either flat or curved. The curve originates from a circle, or from the fatness of the cone; become hollow or convex; or a mixture of these; whence another plane-concave, some plane-convex some concave-convex; be greedy the same concavity, 8t convexity com- they admit of the feigning, on this account they give ca both concave and convex, or from mavltZ- these mifta And now whatever in all- Magia paraftatic prodigiofum, St recon given, it is completed. Verfim de fmgulis bre let us say something, both proper and Scheiner performed the experiments. I. Plane glasses returned to the optical axis they present a natural figure. II. Flat-convex; flat-concave Epheus returned to the optical axis, leave the shape of the glasses as they vary in size; for ad-If n. omm move the eye make a smaller plane-con-concfZ- vexation, when the same is removed; minor ve-rum tlg ro plane-concave, as the same removed until an overthrow happens in them, for then opposites occur, plane-concave objec- They never overturn the dtnra, because the rays from it The rebuttals will never come together. If the verb pia- no-convex to the oblique optical axis; break up oblique to the optical axis before everfio- fhmoZon- sometimes they exalt him, and sometimes they vex him. . let them down, for different kinds of glass fuper- fiction St to the eye of the beach; I want to burn they contract a living thing. Plane-concave diagonally infpeded object contradicted in diameter diminish, and much more contradictory and that in great variety, according to Convexity or concavity has been advanced. a large or small fphasra III. All spherical glass homocen- trice-concave, 8t convex, eye obliquely, A trorum ho moved, a cheap thing (transparent con-mocentricl- draw each phase that crooked, and oblique, equally the matter 7oZixo- they contract life. Diverfarum, on the other hand, ifas. rare plants, which are less than fphasra ris, faster, that is, a shorter difference from ass; those of the greater, slower, diftant lon contract more It should be noted that St. then the branches of the fphasra become sharper faster, you more slowly to draw the matter with Vifa. Om- nia, finally, of this tradition, the adaptation of St nis glass, approaching the glass with his eye, au to wear, to diminish by retreating. IV. Glass convex on both sides, or con- sffisus hollow, they prasftant the same as mixed, fed more intensely We say mixed verbs that con-veiconca- they stand together flat. St other fuperficie-, velVi convex, and concave; but when both which is either convex or concave, etc the same, fedmultb more effectively they do that plane-convex, or plane-concave. Reason It is of this matter, because the refradfcio in this case is double cat whence the radii in the convexity of the other so much converge, diverge in the concave they say Nor does it matter whether the same or concavity, or diverfas 's fernper for al he increases the strength of another for his weakness; eu but every power is defilmed by lu- complete the fphasrica, of which the ipfa portion participates Therefore, it is convex to the axis of the opti when obliquely they oblong the fruitful thing the diameter of the inclined glass, before the shore everlion the lust for ver5 is contrary to eve they deny Concave to optical axis, dia meter on the beach, and removing the glass from the eye lo, I objected to the fire from the glass of any one; whose The cause of the matter is that the rays between fe here they should never be done to anyone, since a cat is more important
let them yield They also transfer the light of the vi- true things from true places in a strange way lum, deorfum, dextrorfum, finiftrorfum, which you will also experience in the Sun, through the man to be dyed with similar colors, or in the Moon full lenticular glass. You will see that every faithful one to be transformed into an ellipse, and instead of being transferred for fat, stained glass; be two or more glasses of this kind in different places between the living and the faith, you will find it you will multiply your faith. Thus Scheiner; as or here of the parelli and parafelini add to the rescue accounts. Mdgu T-arafhtka.
trum. , III Of the Lenses. 'N The lens deserves all the optical miracles they are hidden: whence also a little more of them a'ut zm-tradandum duxi. Now the body of the lens a glass of two glasses the matter If it fuses, live it will fragment ae such as, five unequal Yes ball, livefpViae- ra glass from two hemipha- fused with rice, the greatest of all lentils he preserves the effacement, the lens is therefore intact Lemper from two ejulmodi legments, quo rum is a common mustache circle, confla- turjquaefegmenta fi have been equal, I swear it will be of the same age; be unequal, ab unequal Concave lenses are fe remove the spherical gmenta from the transparent foil ta, or with two lphaeric fuperficies ad the top is opposite, or fphaeric, or plain but terminated Iphaera minor cave tates make sharper lenses than majo rum the hollow of the greater spring of Iphaera gments make obtuse lenses: lenses double hollows, whole fen more polfnnt, how fimplices; which must be understood also about convex lenses in a certain way ad certain effets applied. Lenses, which; from origin of conic faiths there, they are either parabolic or hyperbolic, or elliptical the bus preftant elliptically, and hyperbolically len to reach the treachery of this artifice poflent, I mean their legitimate adaptation lest true optical miracles should be performed, P Argoli dear len so wonderful you want for with the help of these the remotest things, Etiana I bring the pofle to be seen so often in heaven than those which we commonly find in the earth, Verim's business is so futile, that scarcely certain rules can be established, to that end the work to be carried out; I became what I happened to be put on those clothes in such a happy error xerit, as from fphaenco to elliptic, or degenerate hyperbolic drink the rum, about which he always likes to boast, from crying I know that it was not so long ago that Ma give some thematic rules of their manufacture; true when that no artisan is found, he said, nothing to so noble a device then, besides treachery, it is left to us, For this is the task of policing adeb futile, so that there is no point in the eyes tafficiats concerning the figures of the lenses im6 happens from time to time, so that while someone fphse He thinks that he will work with a rich faith, inhy- At last I strayed into the happy lane of the wild cat he may find the truth from the error, while on the other hand the verd We think hyperbole works, as more we arrived at the farm; strange which is, not even us, nor any of the effeds I would like to give a judgment about the truth of the matter. If anyone to construct cyclo-hyperbolic lenses noflet, he is the prasftantifli of all lenses. would make my mother For these, in addition to qu6d collect a lot of light, the wonderful lane effedus reruurpreftant in paraftafi, as in "pZftaZijp: it will be said that they are fertile. I have no doubt that the most famous craftsmen Torticellus, Fontana, try something about this matter they are, and indeed he is so much the better on the other hand, they know the greater theoretical futility then he had
On the placement of lenses. Just as from the side, and kicked and a new house is made, a house like that man, he who has no sand, a foot, wide he has a thing; fed by artificial intrusion it is necessary: so that you have thin lenses, so that for therefore it is fit to be a necefaria of lenses between fe difpofiti, collocation But there is another immediate placement of lenses, another me diata: the former is stuck in it, like that; tubes should be imposed; later on Ipe-
it is given, as a ipfe tube, together with the Senses be suitably adapted, to. the eye, to, the thing to be fed; for there are some wonderful things I mingle art with nature, as when in lib. professor we will demostrate, e6 Le so let's leave the matter, so as not to repeat the same thing so often let's see each other. From these lenses I have the shape of a tube fit for fate innotdcit; it is for vellphs rich tgm Viber X. MdguTdrs II. whole fig, or partly fphseric, partly plain the things which have been perfectly such tes will turn out to be the best in their class. An au- let good or bad things stick to the lens [it is seen, it is clear from practice, and from experience. "For the dignity of this thing is so base and ab. it is convex, the same is now accepted in confusion due to the need to be fruitful I could take to distinguish and organize it. A concave lens can be convex not much before the organized image fe- dem placed, the same imagernin char- It is true that this goodness, or malice, by no means makes it greater, more powerful, folo ufu, and the practical experience of dilci, to be made, and to be taught. Glass, then, is everything they owe the elf of the terliffim refinement, and with the highest quality and the most balanced figures. And having thus duly peradtaefle here, I slipped away with the utmost care of the artist, of the intruments goodness and good fortune make him know I eat the fruit of all things magifter rather, as I said, than any or all marriages of prowess, or of genius, you But let's get back to the investment I see Zeas the light Of the effects of lenses. I. Being a single convex tube unpolished S-res presents the most perfect of all, adeb as a living ivy through one len I pour out the convex one, nothing else happens, as the eyes of the same living power pre- an artificial imitation of fanning. The lens is true But this will be the more important, the greater the greater of the federation, the adeb as fi lens is not so much done a portion of a large field, for example, cu right half-diameter twenty, or more pal the Roman custom was completed, fed also ipfa becomes an extensive destiny, of one, of course, or of two spans, the largest of any fpe- You are willing to present those ctacula, provided that in I will prove the material in the form of the indictable to be drawn For this kind of things slowly extrinsic in a strange way, one when you live you will exhibit the same colors. sftderm Hac eonficie choreographic tables, exhibition topographical, profopographical. The same pr lens as the minutes went by, and the small things became small you will look at the greatest. The same slowly great I have lived in large and small letters you will object to them. About all of which I am more confused in the fertile II, Lens hollow, live plane-hollow, fiveu- three concave, five small, five large fpheerae fegmentumfuerit, whatever bile he gets, that's for whatever reason that he throws out the abundance of paper confusedly, so that the tranfeunting rays never unite, fed entangled by mutual radiations, chaos, and they prevent perpetual confussion. Hinc The difference is clearly that of a convex lens, and con- texl&' Cavas: for that, acce the confufam piece the femper diffused arranges very well; the latter is the same He constantly confuses, hence the office of the lens greater diftance than the fbla convex lens he will do it The same lens ftation bafeos com the munitions will exhibit fpecies in the near future the smallest paper, the finest fed, fa the distance of the paper from the same slowness which can be had, the shortest The same the verb is more like a convex this will show the bigger picture, fed Clarity and purity do not add to the former on which paper also the distance it will require a thing. IV. A hollow lens between two convex, va-tens. r i c mter uas He obtains us better; when both truths are convex; then inside the convex lens, the fire which objects while fpedtat, crouching in common or, and then put it on the paper the image of a fat woman will be painted with a fat woman the eye will see a raised shore, and an image it will increase. If the lens is convex to the cavity speed up, the paper receding, it will be reduced, fi let it be lost as the paper approaches; because this lens cafu receives from a hollow fspecies confufas, hence ipfa arranges them on paper, and because no
while they were declawed, he put them in the char so he casts out feftas, fic everfus fitus con dyes If the verb is both, both hollow and convex, they are placed outside the curcumus com function of the lens, then the image on the paper through the former convex femper is erected, in He turns away with his eye, which is acceflucon vexa, or the eyes to the hollow, receflu char thee is increased, the acceffu of him is diminished; because this cafu lens hollow fpecies femper in He confuses the paper, which is the order of convexity nat, and because they had already been uncuffed He makes fruitful, and raises from this head on the paper, and so the eye tear them down affects V. If, in short, two similar lenses you have just adapted it to the tube, the eye which you have duly applied; you will see indeed fit, fed with greatness, with brightness, at which object of incredible magnitude any earthly, fed aftra any in ob- He will force the dung of the cattle: for with it all things round fint dtum, as to the vital configuration does not disturb; that which feces is in the objedls IUU earthly If you put two colored lenses in the tube you will be impoverished, you will have mixed heliofcopium-fig. him, that all the Sun's slain are wonderful will manifest itself. And from here he was born that microfeopium, with which the mufta in the elephant theme and the flea is enlarged into a camel, and Md&ta DdrdUaticct.
and that, as if other smallness of the eye they flee, they make a great deal. It is also clear two convex tube impolite multib excel slower, clearer, and greater in external matters to present a piece of rum. You have too by two convex lenses, made of fpecies on the paper of the heir, by three convexes properly placed in the eye of the tranfpi knowing the project Pragmatism I How to put things in a strange place I forced the heir to the transmigration should they? These things are distrusted by many, infi- each one has a ufuf in the matter of initials rum to be presented to the natural fit: whence bre quickly at this point, before proceeding further let's open the chest. Yes but it is done Take two convex lenses: which you have arranged in such a way that one may con- orderly curfujn, feu the place of the image,
how much a convex lens draws from the object another convex lens is equal; at this end I put it in an orderly fashion on the opposite side of the paper the heir will throw the piece, that; I objected to the right of the right image, the end beyond the borders, luperna fupernis, hells in ferns in the manner in which fo- let in fpeculis plains; which, however, I imagined nes, on paper with features, fire color If you transfer the bus, they will become blind again your right hand, and your right hand: that which you will avoid in your practice, be perfofla I will tear the paper into an abominable piece of paper convert Let the object be AB i fint duse len tes DE, GH, so dilpofites; stooped arranged, feu room image C, paper IL: it is manifest, fpeciem A, by len tem GH, in E everfam, hence again in I I will project, I will appear with a natural fit. Yes It must be said about the rest of the radiation. You see, then, which fpecies of things in ob- that they may be erected For the first species as in lib. The fuse is oftenfum, through the hole tranfinilfe, pass through the lens in pa the pyres fall unheated because of the heat rays of light in opposite directions ad the narrowness of the hole. But fi poft coriver- generation of rays in the first slow CH, re- Fraudulent also due to the lens DE put, fpecies in it refracted before Con the verge of rays in fertile slow ftendent in the table IL fpecies you will inherit. These fpecies of genius also through the pupil would erect a hyperbolimorph, who wants to make the same exade, Sect of these see the dodiflima Apiaria Bettini. Eft alius quidam fpecierum erecting- Arlltert. rum mode reason. Let there be a machine which- Bionij give, such as the preceding Iconiff fig. air Let's write it down. In which table ABD, plate A, normal ipfi AD, I smelled white blood soaked in fumes mouse In B verb fpeculum size A s equal to the horizon. In the diaphragm gmate; a certain verb C is attributed to the fimplicus slowly, and that best intrude the tube DE, those within the hole C, back and forth through runs an exhibition of fpecies; would have
the ox is ready for the harvest. Here's a glimpse of him it is A part of the tube in each chamber D, out of the valves through the hole into this ufo the fad is extended; fpeciefque things from graft the worse ones through the tube; in A, panel they will appear white, indeed eternal which; soon, however, in the fubjedo fpeculo B, in- give back to the poor; fe will present these things let them talk about the inheritance of species. Pragmatism II. Of the conftwution of a myriad of things invejtiganda by Smicrofcopium. So great is the fallacy of the fenfus of others As viwwv is almost done to the perfidiousness of things to reach the knowledge of the natural, with some snow they should be supported, by which they concealed the retreats of things they would be released into the light. For when near Philophophus that epiphonema, nothing enters into it I understood that he had not been in fenfu before j how about the fabric of natural things come back, and leave philofophabimfir, fi the best compositions of the parties shall we do But to these, that Optic is divine; knowledge, which is hidden from the deep lead the dark darkness into wonderful light city Surely there are many bodies in every life, Sc a poor soul, and so far it has been believed, which, however, he discovered to be alive. Who wants to believe, vinegar and milk innu to breed worms in a wonderful multitude, no This is the art of the finicrofcopa of the last time to the astonishment of all fet? who can ever bring to mind tuiflet, the green color in the leaves of the citrus composed of a kind of onion colors, nifi will this fnlicrofcopa art be discovered? Who nia experience of things unbreakable ma giftra taught us Not long ago I wove the leaves of Liburn, and the profuse spring minofa, all kinds of herbs from di- with a twist and a wonderful weaving of filaments rice composed Castor leaves through these inRicW fpeda innumerable ftellate figures fumroa tion He was born a miracle wear Jury in fa mini bricks the behavior of the ani evil Blood fe brilliancy verminivore O mutual thing the truth is otherwise and see tur ejfe Confession fmxrofco firom-
you will look at the Cerafi's cortex through to and an immense abundance of trees you will find the picture. In other words, tongues roots, leaves, fruit, female, as fpe- cie diftintfta, so to make different shapes you will find All these, be this Dioptrie With the support of magic they would be rescued, huge fane the Republic of literature thelauro I will soon prevail, no one should be afraid. I will not speak here of the wonderful minute bodies by the confection of animal dung, bricas, such as Acari, Lentes, Cyni, and others I bring both birds and reptiles you will find nature in the smallest things also exhibit lions, bulls, horses, Dogs, Cats, Affinos, Eagles, Anfers, a quarter of every kind. What else is the flea? for us, does the wing of the snow refer to the end of the wing? what acarus, nifi urius pilofum? fic about the rest who Hair, too, gray hair les, see the tube full of stupidity twice I omit here, how many things are wonderful of the limbs in the female fowl, this is the eggs, while they are actually incubating the conformation not, and brooding, from the differences of colors with tongues made of natural ingredients, of fan- giime febrients verminofo, and other in in numbers and up to now all the Doctors in known, and by almost none of the physicians they are known You will see that it is not ani only the evils, led lingulas herbs lua to produce natural animals, from putrefaction with his humor like a woman's budding and none of the rockets or rockets o-eneus, because not some mother from God acknowledges these things. Of course in this way fmicrofcopa mftrumenta while in the smallest animals suddenly from decaying matter, qua- the coffee produced so many movements, colors, and a multitude of peninviable parts, di- ftindtion, the apparent variety can scarcely be called I admitted to what an impetuous mind the reason is infinite: this kind of God is everywhere Tentia: be happy, and play with what kind of goodness tis in the world, and the greatest fe, or they snatch the fpedfcacula in the smallest profits. From which it is indeed clear, All things are alive from us, indeed many things, and you see there, eat something else. That is not so much about things you met us here, fed and cooled The truth is difficult for the body of these people
experience taught. Who would believe a heap of nearly innumerable elTes? Who ever spotted the sun? Friday's increase and decrease so? Who the rest of the miracles of Heaven, about whom bus in the first book is adfcum fuse, ever would you believe it? give us a dioptric tube will open But, to return to it, whence Digreffi fumus: therefore they become finicrofcopia in various ways s every fedtio fphasrse vitress, Artis Magnd Liber Magia, Tars this business is suffocating. Some people use with two convex lenses, of which no it is a mere fifth tradaturn. Some like Then fill the huge glasses with water you On the other hand, others are almost new: eoquefaga- I found the smallest glass jars, the diameter of the smallest pearls it does not exceed the diameter, that is, of this of quantity O, include a certain tube: in this foolishness be the foot of the flea if you had an eye and a lamp, you would see strange to say, the leg of the horse's thigh adinftar ni pedis horridus s pilus vero fuprapofi- tus will bear a huge beam, so that even ma It is surprising how in such a small way fphterula things so enormous to be reprtefetari poffint The tube becomes A: C a glass circle placed at the bottom of the tube: lamp D, eye E. Hujufmodi tubulos Sereniffimus Joan- not so Charles Cardinal Medici A long time ago, I was very unimpressed with him dia affedtu, he gave me a gift; and if true I found by experiment, which the Wise Erinceps the mouse told me about them from time to time. If one of the two fphseric fragments con let it be made a lens, so as to make it sharper add hyperbole s then pundto hu- let the right move things tninutiflimas: experi-crofcojto- he will discover the true truths of which I have spoken miracles in composition, and in the matter of manufacture hidden natural rums. But this one will complete the lens, be a hyperbola of one on the one hand, on the other fcripferit, which he will find folio Saga food for the talents of these few didta fint; fix the ra of the lens here put the mind more clearly will explain It is similar to this that defcri- bit in fua Dioptrica Renatus Defcartes. However, the use and shape of the Ufus is different: it renders he made the interior completely flat, the outer hyperbolic, whose rock; by him it takes place in the place in which the object ca- MagiciHrrographicd care the focus must be so close as the smallest object placed there is not ma at a greater distance from the glass than fe is i as the light by which it must be illuminated, ex the surrounding places to approach it. And this glass case is so in- to be avoided, so that the whole of it is covered, me day only that part of it was conceived, which ma the size of the pupil is equal, or even a little becomes smaller: and all of this the those parts which are covered by the eye are black and therefore it will not be useless any longer to surround the edges with a black holoferic, like a tan to the eye as close as possible to the eye by motion they exclude all the rays, except those who admit through a part of the glass exposed there But the stranger will preface his put on a white face, or a fat beard, as all the rays in faith will be emanated to the object he bends it, and in order to grasp the object in it
in the place in which it should be blown, so that with the help of a glass con to be made Let A be the glass, and let C be the inner part of the box, to which the beef it is included; D exterior E object, G the arm, H the eye, I the Sun, the rays of which were not nearly directed into the eye they pass, because of the interjedtum both the glass and objected, fed out into the white body, see They refiled the hive D, thence leading to E, finally from E to the eye. This he But I prefer this lens for the hyperbolic preserves the same thing, which she does not have so many strings attached which they wish to render difficult. Pragmatism III. De Telecopiis, eorumpue ejfeBibus. np Elefcopia, this dif- they say that she is aceeflam, this is cephalum diftantia; that terror, this co- leftia obedta, the Sun quickly, whence no- They chase reason, and reach the ftellaf. Tele- lefapomm fcopia, to use heliofcopia, tend to be more numerous mum is intruded into the color of the glass and flows. Eorma yet it differs in no way from the glasses. Communicate
In the Telefcopii, two glasses of water were added he goes, one hollow, the other open xum, This collects, expands, such ad moves objects j dilutes the hollow, di- he died Let the object be A, the rays refracted through dtion will be forced into one from the plane con I vex the transparent PO, and the rays that speak thanks to the return of the path, propagated together in Y, for an interposed concave lens MN are cooled in such a way that they progress in egreflu are dilated from the perpendicular, and partly diffi- they are hanged, and their teeth are diluted with what partly Coeant in the corner further on in V. From which fchemate, if I am not mistaken, Ledtor easily Those who will understand the reasons for telecopy the reasons for the difpofition of such lenses when the device of the eye was deceived, which we have previously delivered in lib. prop. Again, let us make two convex lenses you will fit into the tube, and the eye must be ap you will fold you will see everb indeed fit, and size, clarity, and amplitude incredible objects whatever earthly SS" lu ll, it is clear that it is false, that It is surprising that some people say that they have little confidence in you to; optical bum two glasses are required, the other concave a the other convex; with the experience of j ani he taught a while ago, two convex quieter, clearer, grander object show how convex with a shell vo, etli fub fito I will overthrow; by which fi fub eredto she would demonstrate, nothing to presftantity It would appear that the ejufinodi tube was approaching the pofle. Descartes to the optical tube of the better no- to make two glasses in Dioptrica fua will produce a hyperbolic, convex one, the other hollow. with a hollow eye The convex object is filled with neighboring objects. In which, however, there are three formidable difficulties, or they run, which they would be deceived, no, it is omni-. the bus would preempt the palm of others. The former is diff the difficulty in preparing this kind of glass. A second difpofition in the foci lest, by the end of which you accomplish nothing worthy: this but how difficult it becomes, the judgment of the experts after all The application of the eye, too, and immutable, by which and spirit I lived, my they are tired in the manner of rum, and how it may be said, I have lived, and may I be longer than others to whom it is inconvenient to adhere to the matter. Who- but if you find a remedy, I will find the rest then I strongly approve, but no one here I would listen to any artist, anything like that in the work he carried out s generally for the hujufi modes of hyperbolic devices in fpho- As we have said elsewhere, the rich degenerate. But Hitherto, I have already made an adultery, Tclefcopiorum LArtis Magnti Libet X. Magia fays in exotic reproductions let's get pregnant Paraftafis I Mi'mtes, rivers, mdrla, immenfas cam the plain of the pores, the immense vortices, la the cus, the fylvas, and in them animals of every kind to reprehend the optical tube with a new art, so that beyond that there is no profusion of living things appear Dura in Dioptric smoke experiments push all the light, but all the fire, And this happened by chance, because of so much effort I had become inquisitive, so that I had to do this to myself having taught all things here and there which is not the most elucidated by divers discoveries a new in- as well as the discovery of UFOs. While For JLtutura was flying to the left of the Roman plains reprxfcn- Telefcopio lutroro, Behold the place of the plains, to shake seas, lakes, rivers, mountains with snow pertussis, bushes, lakes, broken ships, I offer the pies; of which, however, there is nothing a tall man appeared outside the tube. Attoni and therefore the novelty of the matter, while I drink thus I inquired about the effect of indolence, and I saw it at last I want to make a fat meal of the thing of this, a certain plan of the gate was written parallel to the rain like rotting and various fcabrities so wonderful fpedtacula probuifle. Whence hu right occafione something lubtilius'molitus, ma I broke the china with which everything that one might trust, by means of a pipe would offend, even if the reprolen outside the tube should appear. An experiment known as panto- paraphatic IH any plane parallel to the horizon let them be cast out with the ploughshare, ci yarns, ribbons, and whatever else you gather of things, so long as they are so small, as in lo co, from which they are fpedant, to be seen through the tube
they cannot: then the water reaches the extreme shore pour over the boards, so that they stick out a little let them stand out of the water. After this, I wonder about the telefcopio, just go back, txhhhtio where you can find the pannier tables in in due proportion: and behold a great matter comb through the tube that gives you a level. will appear, and an immense sea filled with a multitude of ships, so to life you will find yourself in the wildest fields He swore to look at the highest seas pofs Here I am enamoring the fcopules, mpntium to carry the immense chains into the sea dtas, abysses and filials for thee by merely cramming them into the table you must For the brightness from which pcrfccffifljme the sea brings forth, the scumbags, and the scumbags stand out-- tes ships, ferns mountains, or ipfum fpu- then projected on the table of the great lake tem, a piece of whale wax, ipfastabu-. the rocks Where everything is so much more lively they were rent, how much more proportionately it was difpofed they have been I dedicate this letter to my friends. monftraffem, it is hardly possible to say how much pleasure surprise from such a fpe- have perceived the variety of dtacles, when outside the tube none of these compa- it was running, as if the tube was showing. What everything is also strange how to go out on the right bet P. Fulgendus of the Order of Sandti Francifci Religious
Fabrication of the cloth-parafi attic. by proceeding with the experiment Are the projected Ipecimum in this we will give an artificial account of things the dilpofition of the bands. Let it be made of wood a square drum intruded on the axis of the luo of such a length as to be within the peneftera comfortably rolled around, wide but of any The sound of this drum They will bring out different sides for you, that's for sure on the basis of which Catoptrica is also false We have learned a little. So first, the word gra tia, side reprolentabic seas with a ship the bus to beautify gardens and cities, to make them pleasant fimofque oampos; third level cam many men and beasts inhabited by a fortress; the fourth river mountains, hills, streams of water, huge what follies And fi many more things of the same kind faithful, pentahedron drum, hexa-Mus mun- dron, or any number of sides you will make. WjfintZLfof thus duly completed: If therefore the tube of the first side fpe-A You would trust to see dtacula, with a drum set the side parallel to the horizon should not be drawn. The thing but those who are to be reproducible are put in such a way. For then they are made of a small mound of wax also the part of the board on which the sea is repro- he will fan, with silver leaves he will wave, with his teeth which you will rob, so that he may acquire a rewarder. Flu you will form a thin material, even so small, as outside the tube in the place from which see, let them not appear dimly: enter the silvery edge of the tiniest little ones to stand out faces in the form of ships, by which I was moved You can give it by the cords, so alive you will present the matter sooner. But the mountains, on this side, or beyond the blue sea, immenlo quafi fpa- if you would like to present your work, you will have fitum, be a piece of convex fpeculi, or You could have been a hypocrite: for this is a living thing in Mftanim fffjffhi- will report The remaining sides of the lower drum double Magtd Qdrdjlaticd.
Tube Adapt tation Mountain-detli in this way be presented 'I rested. complete Be prepared Jlapn. you will adorn the houses. All these are better from experience will teach more than many words I declare. Arranged therefore according to the reason of the drum on the sides, take the tube, its than give xi, of quantity, and of better quality, re yielding, and approaching in so far, I give nor do you have this legitimate difference but you will have rilfime, perfedtiffime conlpexeris, 8t fpedfcacula worthy of admiration, I saw them all that I have said is true, and to the living thou shalt, O vast seas, overflow with infinitude fpacio diffitas, curved shore, pifcato- ships, and their wives, which prefcrip- we are If you would like to change the frequency, turn the time bread, the other side of St gardens, garden walks for all fpedtivse rules confided, fcatu of springs he will present the frosty smoke with the pleasure of the soul. Thus, for the sake of diversity, you make different kinds of things
you will produce the sides of the drum, as long as you bum lolum, outside of it there is no reason to force be given On this account Aethna smoking you will report fi table of particles of quicklime pour a few drops of water into a hollow cup deris: for it will begin to smoke, asftus vol truly, and to those who look upon the mountain He will refer to the firebrand. Of which it is clear it is clear that there is nothing in the nature of the world, which the bridegroom was not to be presented to the living he loves All these things become a sort of mystery it is scarcely possible to say, when to excite astonishment, when nothing really the rum outside the tube was seen to be repratfented he loves And so the secret difpofition in- futility First, I am playing the paraphatic drum the polished becomes unaccommodating to the ipecftators. Himself cundo, the tube is fixed in the proper place, as in the drum is made perpetually immobile law, and with the eye applied to every thing they are represented. Thirdly, marvel at the greater things it will be worthy of a position, fi from a dark place, in on the side of which the tube is inserted, let them be injected. Fourthly, the place becomes so poor that even ho- if you wish to look at the horizon: like a wall on the side of a drum pole let the sun lighten him who has been white He will repay all the perfedtiffime things for the light reflected on the board was filled with seas pain, the rest light, and colors lied If, however, the light is facing the wall it fails, the ipfius side of the tympanum paraphaticum il illumined by the same profanity will fan Diffusion of the eye from the board there, according to the proportion of the tube: for they are small tubas obtain a minor diphthong, majo-, the matter is greater. I am of this kind I present it in a depth of about feet. In the larger pipes feet apart he could be afflumi: fed it of inconvenience ha bent, as indeed great things, but not so They use smaller tubes to clear the tubes. The thing it must be left to the discretion of a prudent artist. What happened in the paraphatic table difpo- Ipecies of litharum in the wall of the obfcuri place, the same in lg. you will bring a polished cloth to the fire; refe-c0 let the same things be done in a very wonderful way lius, when there is nothing outside julmodi fpecies to throw, Ipedtaripoflit Paraftafis II. For this reason, when you say a in air} then rainbows the clouds, the sun, the moon, and the stars are repainted pojjint? Oh, we have endured terror, now re- AXftat, so that we refer to the lublimia. Yes the subject proceeds. First put the optical tube there are two convex glasses of better quality: for now everything is in the air as represented twice, and turn back Then on the ipfa board re- They are prefaced with the things referring to the water. First, how m6 the whole luperficies of csQu'bei should be drenched with liquid paraftatic, or introduced with silver leaves: iris. for these things, carried by a tube, will bring back the cos- beaters. Ium glidis, Sc ferenus, within this, be You spread the fruit so that it is reflected The ray of the sun is cast in a tube, you will see it in the sky the fiercest shining sun If ready white chalk in the form of clouds you will adapt these clouds will return to heaven because wandering The same will preface the goflypium in I have laid down the flakes, and you will form the rainbow in this way: In glass, or clean paper with the rainbow painted with all the rest of the colors and I will cover the food with fat; fpedta- twice in the air the rainbow so natural, as nothing j further to express the truth of the matter may be seen to approach Countless others A more skillful artist will be able to present his daughters, what kind of religious man is here in Rome Of the Order of Sandti Francifci, who did not so long ago the fumma looked at it with wonder does not present The matter is quite easy, and he has little principles, like all other fe- chalk, which for a long time is unknown, in the admi by reason when they are made, they fade. No I doubt, however, that the foundations of I have also discovered many other things emerge in time. And these feints, which to be communicated briefly to Ledtori HIM part A wonderful force cisufticomm throw away PART THREE MAGIC catoptric SIVE THE PRODIGIOSA EXHIBITION OF THINGS THROUGH THE MIRROR PRE FACILITY XfEDITIS to them to all, which dd Ma giam Pardjidtlcam quo jis just hire god they were due, now Magic Cdtoptrica adyta excu let's try not to make LeBore curious about anything
celajje dideamur, secret machine mentors But the magic of the Qatoptric nothing else, but a kind of hidden torch tas ed fpeculorum with the help of presenting, which I understand that the human mind must leave the captivity Let them be seen. This magic is fatoptnca ad once upon a time the little one Jfrchimedes SjracuJis, (Pro clum Pygantius mjlruclos, owls in the harbor nadibus, hoflesfediflimos [olis natur ce ar We read that they conquered the mammets. Same thing With plain mirrors iAnthemiinnarrates to Vitellius, f limus hb. c. of silver, reifque fpeculis Hac fatoptri- Some people rely on magic, but this is not known at the time of obsidian per[ecretorum com I will fail the communication of Catoptrolog Arte, about you Twice by the machinations of the enemy, and obf- dione the cities, the country hofe to extermination We have not heard of it in a free manner. "There is no lack of the fact that the god of this art that while they should be conceived by no one, they should be of infamy necromantically criminal punishments fcrdi- let the opticians play a role worthy of their tenacity. They will be found there, [Ve ufumpublicum, by faith fpeBes the restored Prince's recreation, innumerable by no one, whatever, until now delivered I was also poor to many and they shall be led out into the open, by whom Let the LeBores fall. But I will leave them bottles of rum, let's get down to business the wall HYPOTHESES. Each Magus was objected to by a particular character From appearing, it is seen in the manner in which the confluence of lines of reflections with catheter incidence; II. Every reflection weakens the lights, lores, angle and incidence; , re is equal to the angle of bending, nature working along the shortest lines. III. Every form of fertile line through it is made perpendicular to the fuper fuperficio each one of them. It becomes a reflexive verb fruitful line the same, whereas the incidence of the ray; pundta verd form; fuperficiei cujufc no matter how small the incident, Sc fpe the ass of the ass is opposed to the falsehood, necefle there are infinite pyramids to be shaped, co we and the bales here and there mutual ha bent IV. In every reflection in any one fpeculi luperficia made, the line returned by equals dividing the angle con bending, necefalano perpendicular he laughs. V. In the Ipeculis, living center pundtum of living form, pundtum of reflection, and perpendicular to the term laris JfrGcma Cdtoptrlca laris, and the catheter on both sides in the same matter it is necefe to jam the fuperficie of the bending. From which it is clear, the normal line from the pound I doubt the reflection, to everyone bns of reflection incident to that point a common cry CHAPTER I Of the making of mirrors. Pragmatism I The third way. I am not ignorant of most of the Authors of the Catoptricians, giving various accounts I've been reading books about movies dione tradifle We are from the artists Ve nets intruded, so we wish to finish them. the end of the mirrors, the termination of the mirrors, which for criftalium is prepared, it is done by lead, perjian- or ftannum glass plate, which; I am the most expedient of all, and the best of my life there is a system of terminating the straps. Take it I'm going to brade myself from the English language to the liori, as far as the table is made you can stretch the plane; I will sell this so you put in the glass before you put it on so that there is no wrinkle or spot on the skin let it remain Then the glass together with the slime na, a wooden or metal rim, around you will give I will finish this plate: silver vi vum fuperaffuffum hither and thither for so long you allow it to flow until it is all made of water brade imbibed; And you shall have bread I'm sorry He taught us this technique ture in the contusion of the eye: fiquidem a behind the polluting parts blacker He drank something, not feces and glass. which ends the cheap fur trade. But that with this induftria not Ivitrum folus, fed Selenitis folium, which is commonly called cant, we finish; in which dida method in fpeculiarly restrained, then bent round a cylinder, a cylindrical fpeculum, about a cone, conical, round about a pyramid midale, about any other body finally applied to any of the sides, let them make a little cake as requested. In experience but for your doings nothing is better than this practice. that I knew With a true heart
exotic pores require the greatest artists, and I will not be held to the greatest expense iint, nothing dida method in various experiments about the different types of fuperficia the smoking properties of rum, either better or can be found more easily. Another method. On the steel plates. QPecuIa steel etfi the best fint, per- let them show the faithful maidens of things, because, as much as possible, I am exposed to rust xia ftint, they devised a certain mixture artists, from which fpeculum is founded dung, and with all numbers abfolutiffi mother For others do so; from the stars in three parts, ftans, and a silver part one, a tenth part of the odava of antimony. No do not leave any money for savings how many Some of the ftanni libra, teris trien you are already colliding, and an ounce of tartar, gold with the addition of white pigment, and until let the plums emit smoke from the fire, la they make threats. Finally, except me tallow melted denub boards the heated form, and the bottom of the tear mte of larch, and of vines with ashes Itevigates, in. fpeculi bring down the figure. Finally, smooth the sand board glue attached thence fmiri, or pumice smooth, lusty earth Tripolitania, finally, was kicked by the foot of the foot they bring out the final polish. Silver verb fpecula minor business they are accomplished, since the ipfum by fe The silver bull is the one that comes from fpecus We require a lawsuit. True and ill-fated, and mine do not let them be broken by danger. The third way. Of Spectilis coiiVexis. Onvexa verb "fpecula, feu fphaerica to be confederated, take i. unc. Marchafi tae, i. ftanni, with which they love to iron, ar parts of the living race: they are based on liquefaction into cold water. Then I go through the whole thing should be laid on a clean sheet, expri- when the money is ripe; here fphsera glass, which he has not yet made any noise, the rush of action and the tattoo will soon end in fpeculum- True to all these things from the poor in the world I will give an account of them here with the help of a fubterraneum we are tired of saying Pragmatism II. De confeBion fpeculifybariciconcadi. Concave fphasric fpeculi is menfura; a circle whose branches the smallest, when they have the same center, 5c incidence of rays reflected the laws of God will boil, and in the branches of ma with a smile; hence fpecula in some way follows lias by many not in quantity, fed by the power of God it is cut, and the distance is so much greater than the small pieces to the greater periphery of the reef, the quantb diame three times the diameter of the larger circle HIM ex- segment fpeculi steps rays to to burn most u ntt. The secret Catoptri him Spccnla fe- smooth, fi- or talcum powder drawn Artis Magnct Liber Magia $arts exceeds; in such a way as to make a small part of the ma the right circle step by step fum becomes a greater reproach than fpecu light from a fragment of a smaller circle, quot even degrees cet peripherally fubtendente exeifum: quece I would like you to note everything carefully. I said a little silly fpecula, from whomever legments of the same circle, however in equal to others, yet equal in power to others in any way, not preeeife. If indeed to tioribus catoptricce diciplinse magiftris He knew that some of the branches were used as a major for others in the shining rays they create a union, thus more effective also to acquire the power of burning. I I can collect as much as I can with the wild beast tui, fpecularis fegmenti gradus fubten- the cavity of the tooth, of all the most powerful, as well as the most effective I judge that I am fit to be burned; for the rays reverberating on the axis so about a quarter of the diameter from the top of the glass it constrains and constrains, as if parabolic it seems to relate; namfolare rays enter linear g. almost all of the fingers are col binds It will therefore be determined in whatever way circulo part ejufdem, five Roof degrees, and juxta this fpeculum con let it be done: that the rest of the fpeculi be made common let them be present, quick dexterity in work, ma teria congruent, fuperficia equality, laevor and polishing before all else; finally and the price will be finished, and only for he will blow a glass of this kind with a diameter of
li arms feet in diameter. For this it is so perfect that nothing in it overflows; Idols perfedtius, reflected further, ra burning the gods better, anyway what is beyond this step attached to the fpeculiar? there, without merit, and at the end of any benefit He can be seen together. I know a noble que- I will give the Gallus a conftruxifle daughter with my mother to the greatest surprise of all; and a few no then it is mysterious. Fragments III. Xe confection fpe culorum cylmdr aceor um, ? of the cones Cylindrical glasses become convex the best of any metal, or even from the miftura, which I have indicated, fufa in a duly prepared form, which then the lita effedtus are intent upon Where do I go? ra erunt, five qub bafis capacier, tantb lu they will pay more healthily. I am a cylinder dry, conifque, then concave, then con vexis felenitico leaf redabto fpeculum veftitis, at the end of so much work, ftimpibus5 I use the best fane proceflu. Fragments IV. ID from Mirrors by parabola, hyperbo- lam, ellipjin, and fpecular bodies from these bring the ipts to the confellion. The form of the Arabola, according to the rules of the book in the third place, you have indicated what was carried away, in the mate some leafy things, such as iron, to grind, to cut bet she pa hollow in dicfta material rabolicus, from which the module then con you will be made from your father, and your mother will melt who through a special miftura fu Mdgja I will finish the wedding ceremony, which properly, fum- At last, my passion and industriousness were refined He went into a parabolic mirror give By circumscribing the forms of this into the futile matter produces other luperfactions tur, which all the particular fumes were broken both in the illumination and in the revenge of things they will be strengthened by the exhibition. And the first who then, you will be led into a long parabola it will be made in the material of the fuforia conca a vessel in the shape of clay, a leu of a boat parabola-form conftantes, which in fpecu- la redada in complete line XT burns, And before the rest in the ipfi pundi XT, the image lest you also be retaliated by this Ipecula, They will be monltruofas, as far as can be said. If, however, the parabolic shape around you will lead around the axis AS, in the circle of the axis The parables, taken together, will be written three times I will prepare some fulbria fuperficias bruises, which are reduced to fpecula, except than that he presents idols of wonderful things, in circle also illumination, uftio- nor will he complete it, as fig. XYdocet If you go a parabolic tube, or a zone de- trust: the parabolic form thus lands fufo- will be printed in the riae so as to leave the extracts from thence what luperficie, which you believe in PQrelin- let the tube KL, PQ, be parabolic made but the zone will give MN, PQjie all of whom are in the early stages. Moreover, fi pa rabola ABC dellcript, hyperbola, or el- it would be lipfis, he would produce that tradition, or Circumcision in the land of fate, right complete hyperbola-forms, or elliptic- the forms which the language diversifies as well as in by lighting, by burning, and by burning things presenting it, they will be spoiled. Corollary. From which it is very clear, from this also to be given the form of a secret magician I would focus, which was a revenge of any kind express a figure; in which nothing from anyone I believe a more wonderful betrayal; through which then to be retaliated against in any way polfis Which are unheard of here and there, deservedly curious nature fcruteurs to so Invefti exotic fummo ftudio they must raise the gands. anca
Profit I. In the fpecuiis planes the shape of the thing lives and grows partium fecu n m u a ni it at cm length nis, width is not changed. IT fpeculum plane AB, the shape of the object vilaeFL, catheti FZ, LH, and two Z, &EI, two pounds infuperfi- and they will be produced by common reflection the lines FZ, LH, continuous in D, G punda, only 'a Z, H diltantia, quan then E, L from the same. Let it be the center vilus E, dudaque catheto EB, fupra Ipe- cnlum AB, the form of the pounds L is clear, F, I was refled by some special funds E, and the place of the forms of the image punda DG, which they only smell so much a small piece of wood, as much as a pound of wood CHAPTER II. De Varus Variorum Bloom Diftindio I
Of the wondrous fpeBaculi, of the fpeculorum planorum with the help of presenting fpeculum If then the FL line was red will be line GD reda. SiFL has been a circle arc, and the line GD will refer to the arc of the circle femper ejuldem curvitatis, &difpofitio- nis. Linea igitur FL femper ejufdem quan titatis, Sc the figures of which elt outside fpeculum will appear. It is clear, then, that the Corollary. From this propofition it is clear at first, that the high depths and angles the lengths of the plains were forced deri, with the imperfections of the glasses they stick out perpendicularly. See Euclid. theory catoptr And the art of Ana- countryside, where this propofition fu- you will find the son demonstrated: on the right where to use it is clear from the propofition. Llll j Art magm Book JbfitgU Part III, Profit II A mirror like that. Jltuare} ut infpiciens, n on indeed a proper image, fed instead see another picture of him before let him make a deal. Let the horizontal line FB be supported by ciii AB, normally, will be elevated a certain plane to two-thirds of one fu- for the plane of the line EB; to this below the line horizontal EB, another plane ITcon- is formed parallel to the plane DE, in which ra of the seer, whose feet are unpunished (9Gal how far the line AB is raised. years ro becomes the vertex of the seer, but the eye of fire the fus becomes K and the angles of incidence are li nearum GD, EM, are equal to the angles of reference xions of the lines DH, EL, and produco side BA, in N; it is clear, the whole image GM, k fuperficie fpeculiED I flashed into the LH mirror, and from the LH mirror I flashed to the living K: and since the place is low the form of the gins: it is in each and every place I bent the fuse of the catheter with the line natur form to be reprasfent in fpeculo, for example in but the eye is conftitua- j there in G; and the plane of the horizon QB becomes j open I mean the image in fpeciem in fpeculum I pound D trajedus s then in G, the center of the eye will be reflected, the shape of the eye in the mirror the perception of the matter in Ciim for the angle IDB of the radiating image becomes the water angle of the GDF reflecting image from D, in G, quickly to the center of the eye; and every form of wood was pierced by that angle he is pitied, the fub in which he falls into the fpeculum: do not ce (Tario form of the thing conftituta in in none in another place, than in the pound G, fpedabi- tur: for it may be seen, for example, in a pound E. But when the angle of reflection D becomes there uneven IDB incidence: you will see there the thing is in the weight E, and it will not be seen, which is absurd. Therefore, I put the weight on the folio G will be seen, which was to be demonstrated. the fua of the reflection j is produced, the line is easy BDEA, for this is the catheter of forms pundorum G, M reflexorum a pundi s E, Sc E, to the ipeculus LH, and they will fasten it from K, by punda L H line, with line AC, water angles ELA, DHA, acting in the ON, is produced fpacium ON, the image form of the entire GM line, and it will be a pound, as much as the image is in the form of m where G tiiis into the air, what a pound O, that to whom. it is an image of the shape of the pundi M, the apex of the vertex seeing He will therefore see from the weight K, in- holding fpeculum LH, fuam image in flying in the air, because he will see the feet of al more in the air than the higher the head is placed. Therefore, the bottom of the fpeculi is certain to the observer it will appear to be flying, which it was to offend Profit IV. Profit III. , The image was made with a certain fpeculiar jituation to recreate the flying Flat triangle ABC, in whose side AC is placed in the plane fpecu lum LH: in lateral verO AB plane, DE Another fpeculiar is placed, and they are led from DE, the catheters DG, EM, fit the side A, in a flat surface, in which it is elevated I want fpecula flat reclangula, acpualU to fly in such a way as to look into one of the glasses let him see the image coming, in the other retreating Take two flat glasses, of which Ion- double in width, or in height ra will be, of length verO ejufdem, pa ria, and thanks to the convenience of fufra phtylum let them unite with each other, and build up the plain whether Mdgid Qdtoptncd. Is there anything that surrounds the vertebrae? then, now to be elevated, now to be depressed,
as it appears here in the figure; it will be done, as I see lo in V blowing while fpeculum A is raised, to approach the image while the verb is depressed seem to withdraw. For the appearance of the beholder project into fpeculum A, hence into B, re bent, while it is depressed by the force of reflection, Neceffario will refer to the image in B from V, receding verfus C: elevando verd fpe culum A, neceffarib image from C, verfus V will hurry Who pretends everything is easy from Ptolemy Theor. Vitellione, Alhazeno demonftrata, even further than them We don't want to be rare. Profit V. With the help of two planes the same objects could be replaced infinitely faster then And this is the foundation of Propofitius of the whole Catoptricce. Let there be two planes, and parallel EB, CD, object O, between the two. St the eye at A, from which you can see a small piece of glass EB: from the objedo O, he falls into this fpec the light EB, the perpendicular CE, which also will be perpendicular to fpeculum CD, and fstones will appear in the same products I objected O, near the common fenfu fpedivorum Then through the same perpendicular and by the eye A is meant a long time ago whether, what he does with common fpeculi make sure the lines are parallel, ver bi grace EB, CD Finally, ipfi EO is equal to EF, in fertile figure CG, equal to CO, in both FM, OL, LS, s, sh, fint ae such as, double CE I mean, one the same object O, with the eye exifting in it at that place A, and looking at the Mirror CB, appear at punda F, L, M, S, a, h, s; And indeed the first object is O to F ap to obey, is proved in this way. Cut AF EB is returned, in H, and OH is not given. Since therefore, the angles to E, fint return, and the sides FO, EF, equal to the sides EF, EH; will they be The spheres EHO and EHF are equal, and because ipfi EHF s is equal to AHB, will be the angle of inci of the tent OHE, equal to the angle of reflection AHB, finally a pound F, in which makes the ray AH perpendicular OE, will be the place of the fpedri obedi O I say fruitful, imobjedu O, ap to comply with the fertile adpunduniL; for example mb CO, twice, OE twice, this is GO, femef OE are twice the double of CE, and must be equal to ipfi OL. Therefore, if OE GO and OE will remain common, this is EG, equal to ipfi EL. Then cut the ray AL, redo EB, in I, and redo IG, redo CD, in K, and not given KO. Since then around the red corners to C, again fint la CG, CK, equal to the sides CO, CK, about the angles back to E, the sides EI, equal to the sides LE, EI, will be as an tea angle of cutting OKC, equal or throat reflection IKD, rurfus corner in to cut KJE, equal to the angle of reflection BIA, and finished the object O, inci the first tooth in the fpeculum CD, will be reflected from K into fpeculum EB, to I, from again it will be reflected to the eye A, and the eye A through AI ray will see the benefit of both fpeculi the same object O, by two refles xions in the weight L, where the life radius AI, makes the perpendicular OE. I say the third, the same object O, confpi- ci thirdly to the pound M: for in the first ipfi EM, which is greater than twice CE, and be taken equal to ER, and the weight will be R beyond C. Finally, AM is drawn, making EB, in N, NR fecans CD in P, PF, fe cans EB in Qj and OH is not given. Since therefore both EM, ER, and EO, EF, fint equal, EN, EQ. common will be that before the angle of cutting OHE, equal the angle of reflection BQP, and the angle fe the scales of justice QPC, equal to the angle of reflection DPM, the angle of the third inch pay PNE, sharks of the third reflection BNA: and in this manner objected O will reach the eye A, through the ray AN it will be seen that the same object is already in the third ad a pound M. Dicoquartb, the same object appears again to St. such as EV, and it will be eaten by CV, sharks CL, for GV, LS, are sharks, because taken away by the sharks EG, EL, from the sharks EV, ES, sharks remain; but it is ipfi LS sharks OL: therefore also GV, OL, there are sharks, and CG added to the sharks CO, there will be sharks. Junda therefore AS, and making EB, in T, TV, fecante CD, in X XL, fecante EB, in y, y G producing CD, will be encountered in Z s, as previously I reflected the incident OZ to y, I reflected Zy again to X, and y Xa refled to T, XT refled from T? to the eye the light Jtrtis Manu Likr X. Magia 'Part III. The third figure Magtd phytoptrka. !umA, and thus the eye A l to see because just O, the fourth to the point S I say the fifth, 6c ultimd, &inuniver- fum the same object (fi would have the force of to spread to infinity, Sc fi in reda CE in the same way they smoke different puns give, as figs are accepted punda EL, MS, a s h, s, so that the intervals FM, MA, as, Stc. Sc intervalsOL, LS, sh, fint double at the interval of the glasses EC) to be represented pofle infinities, and the removal to punda ra ad infinitum Demonstrative for fem- through it is the same. Profit VI. To demonstrate the same miverfdliter. E Sto oculus A, objedum fpedrum object O is represented in B Reda CD will make BO bifarious, Sc ad am back throats in C, radius AB in D, 8c inD will be accommodated make me fruitful CD li plane EF, neda- and OD: they will be that corner CBD CDO such as e6 Qubd about redos ad C, sides CO, CD, fint such as the side bus CB, CD Eph but the same CBD following the FDA, to the top D. Ergo inci of the tooth, the angle ODC, is like a refle xion FDA, St ray AD, sees obje while O, to the point B, where the radius AD makes a perpendicular OC. Corollary. In this way he wants the same object for him to be represented with the eye gnata, by multiplying Ipecula, be made from another place If the obstacle does not occur, 6c is used then the multiplication of the other Ipecula should be done in parallel I have made the same objection to countless other places. Aha the demonflvation of this thing hreYior, brighter CjPeeula plana, 8c parallel fint EB, CD, ,bjedum 8c COE, to both fpe- culm perpendicular to both sides to infinity I mean the eye is everywhere that to A, from whence Ipeculum can be seen EB, the object O is seen to be multiplied at the end In the first form, ipfi OE, the se- such as EF to be separated from F at will the same part to Ubitii as-
Cunque EM, M a, as, 8cc. sequels double CE, and the rays of AHI, ANM are given A b a, A B s, I mean, from where H, N, G, B, flashed to the eye A, fpecies fpe- dri O, and adeb in the perpendicular OBS to be seen at places I, M, a s. For the other part of my objection O, this is more true C, abfcin are given OR, RC, Ct, such as double CE St number such as ipfis FM, Ma, as. If, therefore, O H is not given at first, when EF, they will be like, St EH perpendicular ris, necelfe is the angles EHO, EHF, efle such as, 8t because ipfi EHF, such is AHE Ipecies fpedri O, falling fpeculo in H will be reflected to the eye by the ray HA, 8c through the same will be seen in the perpendicular OE, to F. Second, the RN is not allowed to make a fpeculum CD, in B, P: another PF is drawn, fecans Let EB be in Q, and let OQ be: and as before the angles EQO, BQC are themselves such as, St Ipecies falling to Q, reflede tur to P. But also the angle QPC becomes the quality of the angle of reflection DPN, for in this way Ipfi CO becomes like CE. Therefore, when OR becomes twice as long as CE, it will be qualis two CO, this is, ipfi O, 8r two OE, this is, iffi OF, this is RO, F, will be such, and removed com muni O, such as R, OF, adjedifque such as C CG, will also be CR, CE such that CP is perpendicular; er go angles like CPR, CPI, fint; Fed to him the OPR is like the NPD, at the top P. Therefore the angle of incidence QPC, which The issue is the reflection angle DPN, St Ipecies object from H, reflected to P, from P, to N in short, from N to A, because they are also angles RNE, BNA are such that ER, EM they are like that, because RO is like FM, Sc EO ipfi EF, EN is perpendicular. The third, and so on, are such as the caufam E c, Ea: St therefore the angles B b A, E b c, or E b d such as duda d e M, ipfi b d D, what kind is M d C, feu o d C, because bus FM, RO, are attached such as CF CR. Also at the angle d from B, such as from E, because ER, EM are like, St BfD, like gfc, because of the quality of CF, CR, finally, f g B, o g E, because of quality EF, EO. Whence I objected to the fpeciem, O incident to g refledi, exginf, exfiu E, from E to d, from d to b, to the eye A, Se therefore the same object must be represented by the eye pundus A. Demonftration for femper it is the same. In fertile shape to the pound C, abfcin-
is given ipfi CO, qualis CG, 8c poftea GV, VK, quality dupl CE, St fimi- liter from the other side from ipfo object Mmjana really? Artis Jbtagnae Book J%f Magic' Part
redo OL, OS, SH, the same CE twice: and it will also be ficEG, EL sharks, smoked in E e, equal to ipli EO, will be GO twice CO, C double QE, and therefore the whole EG is twice as long as CE, and so on then EG, will be sharks EL From ipfa ver6 conftrudion, and all de- It is clear from the demonstration that the first place fpe- dri e fle F, which is held by one refle- Jcionum to H, and for this he makes one fpeculum EB, to the rest It is necessary for two. For the second the room is L, 8t is needed for two reflections bus, the first of which is at K, fecund at in fertile form. For the third place, who it is to we need three, as will be seen in the first to CL, P, N. For the fourth to SM, fertile four to ZYXT, and so on the rest Qabdfi trusted places ipforum fpe- of the peoples represented, for both in the same way it is multiplied in the other rum, for example in EB; then for re- with the presentation of the small CD, in the first fig double sharks Ec, become fruitful Gura fumends are the same dupls sharks EM, M V, Vnara in the first figure then The object is to be punished C, as barren punished E It is clear, too, that the first figure is the object O flet mobile, would be moved k C ver right E, should be moved in the fpeculi from E verius F, 8c from verfus from ver- I was tt. It moves in a fertile shape verfus M, 5c another verfus V, another ver right f. So that one and the same object mo the same part of the man's body should be moved in opposite directions. All the same things, and done in the same way, and for the same reason they happen in fpeculis inclined planes. CHAPTER III. On convex phharic mirrors. First, in the fpeculi of Iphsricis let us trust to the convex reflection fphsram fpeculi by such as dividing Second, fi from the living center to the fphsra the circles are drawn touching, they will determine you are a portion of the small thing, from whose weight it will be made the reflection of the forms to the life s qus portion a sweet and lively companion for my little ones it is affected, it increases at the back of the verO. . Thirdly, a line from the center of the fpeculi to the pun- while the hesitation of reflection, and the treacherous bifurcation the line divides the angle by the incident lines, reflection content omuifque line reflection with incident catheter he runs, and fixes the place of the image there. Fourthly, one living cannot see idol of the same form reflected by divers Where did you get the money? Fifthly, the forms omnipundornms how do they differ from the center of the small convex ridges, fruitful angles of sharks the base of the incident catheter, and the diameters of the vi- with the fuals in the center of the glass, re- they weep for life. SextO i fi from some pound of fpeculi con I carried a treacherous line of reflection, a circle, who is a common weary of fuperficia refle xion fpeculi, he has done in such a way that the lines the product part, which is inside the circle, five who cut a string with sharks becomes fe- the diameter of the circle; the location of the image femper will be inside the convexity of the glass, and Finally, this is the location of the VIFs image the femper will be inside the fpeculum. whose elegant the hottest demonstration of the road at Al- hazen no. f. And the theorem of this with your help we have many representations we discovered a wonderful and almost prodigious thing, de in which SeptimO, in convex fplisric fpeculis the smaller the distance of the image from the small fu- complete as much of the matter as possible. Euclid Theor. Catoptric Odavo, in the same convex fpeculi fphsric, in the living center motionless and the form of the object was immovable, it was femper fub the image of the thing is seen in quantity; become rd the image of the thing has come close to the fpec the closer it is, the larger it will be seen, and as she was more distant from the same so it will be seen as smaller; not yet con tra: the demonstration of which he conveys with ease Vitellio lib. no. "Ninth, the image of a concentric arc with a mirror in the convex fphsric a curve is seen, pa the arch of the bow, of which it is an image; picture rO lines reds not squidiftants fpeculo, which would not touch the products, or feca-
ret fuperficio fpeculi, vifu not exiftente in the fuperficia of the incident, the image is seen curve Alhazen. that is no DecimO, a f-perficie fpeculi fphsrici convex from different fuperficies fphsra- rum compofita, forms reflexes monftruo- fs image are seen. For when diver- divert the rum fuperficies fphsricarum fint of the center and place of the image of any one where in the fphsric fpeculis it is made in the catheter the fus incident dudo from pnndo vifus to center fpeculi hsc but the centers diver- they will be caught in this kind of irregular fpeculi ribus: it is liquid in different forms of the pounds to be drawn into different parts. Since a let the reflection take place in all perfection. A mirror heat and cold in hold ejlendit Effefflus with hollow Jfrfagid Cdtoptrkd. Bc parts reflexes fertile places diverfifi- center, not the same fertile shore; pa tet the whole picture from such pundters in places aggregated and united, a pair of furrows to receive the untidy shore. See therefore the image of the in-hujufmodi Ipeculis will be bitter monftruofa, and it is done in the uniform of others of which parts, fertile uni-1 the form of their completion rum, and the deformity of other parts is caused by to others Hence some parts of the image through some are long, some are broad; no no in tranlverlum, fecund that parts, and other fuperficies fpeculidiverfa The centers of the various Iphsras report All this was furthered by Vitelliion, Al- Hazen, Euclid, Ptolemy you will find it broken. We are of this kind A lot of theoretical principles are in the air on the boat, which will be done outside, he depicts in papy ro, or wall, pidturamabili: fpecies of things into the middle of the air, the letters re- mote presents legends, and borders, about whom the bus will be drawn in order. Ve rum, so that all these portents can be better understood are bound, first, in this place, something about the conch We took the demonltranda of the Ipecula. Let it be therefore the plum Propofitius. Profit I. The location of the image in the concave fpbctric e fi iri the line of reflection beyond the hunchback fpeculum proauUa, cathetum incident vertical axis through the center I will lead a lively business. Be a small DBA cutting line ED, reflection FD, catheter GEBH, whether to rescue: that in the diftin-r of this part, . r. . We will explain further. dtum passes, the diameter to be cut aP- CHAPTER IV. Of the fpeculis fphancis concave, and so on. prodigious operations. So much so that the genius of the opticians was NOTHING it stings, and the eyelids are sunken these prodigious operations. This for with the first light of the sun there is heat in the air so intent that it burns white and black he fixes the bricks, the lead into the plates to make it flow; heat too It sends back s like winter, t sftat diversity it is best recognized by reflection, lit ras on the far wall he proposed to read: with light the verb fertile various images gives reds, turns, big, small, And sometimes things show things about things undamaged, whole, parts of them, such as the eye one touching, and two images of one thing nes in different places. Various images too does it determine places beyond the veil, between fpeculum, and the object object, in the place of the object objedts, beyond the object object, that is po- and then the thing objected to is a smaller fpe- ass, what an image; in luperficio de nice lpeculi ftendit, as appears in the letters objected to, before retrorlum, furlum, deorfum, dextrorlum, finiftrorfum In addition, it shows fpecies only a few are perceptible, as appears from draw the edge of the sword, and shine with light; also from the snow, or from the freezing ice a very distant image. Sermons also renders Sevoces, as Echo, so that where they are most important, the faeces of relatives let them go In the darkness, finally, the sun shines. is driven The line GD is perpendicular loCi leu pundti incidentte, lickundum which angle EDG, the line of reflection nis squales effle confpicis, refpedtuquc ipfius lpeculi, or lines containing lpeculi race in D. Now the FD line will be produced of reflection from D, into the continuum. I mean, where the incident catheter GH, makes, in it pundto efele site of the image. Since
the nature of the additions was a summary. deat, that is, effedtus fiios through the breviflames reach the lines; but at night they are shorter neae fint, than the lines of reflection with ca the incident; therefore by two hafce, no by other means it reaches its end: therefore the object I see E, which is seen by the eye of F tur in H, because the reflection line occurs in H Mmmpi z iiis All of them the gods from Sola ri difiopro- ficting are riding dijlmtes Artis magna Book X. XCagia 'Lars III. you FDH, and each of them should be extended to H With a GEBH catheter. For if E, it would fall returned beyond the fpecnl line, as the power of all the most concise, and the briefest, ca deret in H. Hence the eye is deceived, as ex Persistence trusts, when he thinks that the object of E Efele in H. The reason is because when it becomes powerful material, and corporeal, cannot co- gnofcere reflection, figuti nequefelu- pra fe ipfam refledtere Therefore the tree a line is drawn, the radius ED is ele, con tinum, and rise from pundto D, and then and every one of them was proficient in the eye long from the eye along the lines DH, AG would flow, not even a little leafiness, or a medium denfius would prevent him from going further, ad he will transfer the return of H Like everything Fufuus in Anaclaftic Art demonftravi- mouse Profit II. FiociiSy five confluence of forms in ffiecu- h concave Jpbaricus, does not occur in the ipfio fiegmenti fpeculi fpheric center, nor beyond, fed ci through the center that center and each to the center of the center in the fullness of C. 'ftans radius AB, ficque refledtatformaro. Uo' let it be at the point F. I say that BF, ma jor is FC which I thus demonstrate. Angle FEC, incidence; there is a shark in the corner DEG, the angle of reflection s and BEC water at the angle of BEG, for BE is feminine the diameter of the glass bisects the circumference making: therefore the angles BEp, BED by com a good idea, be equaled by the will be the sequels. Because BC, and DE, sequidiftant, will be through angle BED, the sharp angle BEF, and therefore the angle to BE, bafin asqnaies; therefore by BF, FE, the sides are straight; but FE is longer FC, by f. therefore BF; FG is longer. What was to be demonstrated; therefore when the radius close to the center of the mirror is not inflated they are measured to the middle of the hemidiameter; many to more, nor removed, by Corollary I focus cat X clearly trusts in this propofition, figf Iff 'the fire is by no means in the center of the fpeculi luisfacu- to be placed in the fphasric; fed in that part of the axis, lts between with the same weight, aceo- c tant vicinioran the fuperficia fpeculi is as infinite as us, the incident and reaction punishment inci and the principal branches of the ipecu li, small, or rather, from which they were more remote; so true tro B, the closer they are, the greater the incidence tias, Sc of reflection, leu of the parallel radius of inci the teeth of the BC axis were closer together. priceless the father's heart pore size huge di- the flow therefore the lines when from the center of So lis, tii. ni h quocun that of the flesh of the body pundto in fpecula Incidents, all of them be damned smelling, not faeces and the line? of the settlement in the land of fuperficia all of which known by opticians &Aftronomies FIoc therefore fuppofito, di co, which place con- flow of forms, feu the principle of radiation I was sunk by the fuperficia of a small fphasric it does not differ from the ipfa fuperficia in the middle tem fphasras of the femidiameter, whose ipfum It is a small portion; five which is the same it does not take place in the center of the temple, nor beyond, fed on this side the center, which I thus demonstrate. Let it be Sol A, B the center of the fpeculi concave fphasri ci, and the ray AB becomes transversal Corollary II. UJlio irx From this it is clear, too, that in the fpecal you want the revenge of the Phasricians not to be done in one only pundto, fed m more for inci- a, s. the diversity of the lines of the teeth; in which indeed let the diameter be the focus, diverge the forum is opinion: experience will settle the case. For if the incident rays correspondingly reflected in the whole circumference of the circle true lines, those places on the axis CK, at most in the fifth part, or between the fifth and the fourth:
But those who say, like Maginus, the rays all the Suns in fpeculum from the belted side cir the ass made the incident to the fourth match diameter, the wrong lens they hold since neither from the first part to the let them gather at the game, rather than with it gis from that quarter about fpeculi fu they are withdrawn from the middle of the fpe the butt, and the axis of the ray, were incident to the oar more expensive, as it has been said. Pro- Profit III, Mdgut Taraftatca, Ido. lum j feu fpecles objetti fubmcU extra fpeculis comes out. Let it be a small CBA, of any size dinis the object becomes E, which the line in He casts an accident in B, and is reflected in the rainbow to the eye L, so that the refpedtu of the diameter BD the line of incidence, and those of reflection angles about the point B, for both com
make it work Cathetus' true incident from E, it is extended to N, and the image of N it will be seen within the luperficio fpeculi CBA, and objected to, feu rem vilam E. Whence qua- t6 more objedtum E, to fpeculum accefle- rit so the image will be removed from the same more there If, therefore, you will find the object in il lud in M will be seen i fi in K, that in L Ipe- will be given Profit IV. In the looking-glass I now see the shape of the fpharlco major, now minor, now reUa, now it seems inverted. (Dlt fpeculum concave XD, ZV lati- What is the face of the man who is making the law? the middle of which becomes a living center, to which the reflection of the face at the end of the line nis ZV reaches; Figs outer part A along the line CD, two rows of cords the incident of two pounds A, B, they are led into K, H, when they meet with the lines of reflection CD, CZ in points K, &Hjredfcavero joining K, H, will give the width of the human face in the small ap of the parent, that as much as the natural wolf ret, it appears from the figure. See the demo Aeon of this at Vitellionetheor,
If, therefore, the eye in three times the center of the concave gnituAinh you could finish the image of the femper appa it will return until it comes to that you will reach the point in which I took refuge he said, and turned the image over he trembles; from which step back carefully ris poft of inversion a pound from the greater one, so I gradually reduced it it is suggested, that it may become like an object, fed to an idol because of the rays in the pundt You will see the reverse order. Because demonstrated by others, hence briefly We only wished to infer here; not because as to the full extent of the things to be delivered We would seem to lack intelligence. CHAPTER V "Of Cylindracels Mirrors, and their affection IN fpeculis cylindrical convexes h properties are found. If alive li nea reda has been parallel to the axis of the fpeculi in the same plane, on the whole side of the bottom of the cylinder can go refledti; and the image is seen as a line return of a parallel quality; fed fi was alive come back outside the plane line, that I will fix the axle fpecuna if it is parallel, the reflection takes place from the side of the cylinder, and the image seems a little curved, and smaller ipfa parallel But if the living becomes useless nor fedtion, return to a plane line, axis fpeculi cylindracea convex to fe standard lium, the reflection will be done at the periphery of the glass which is common to the plain line, Sc of fuperficie fpeculi; and the image will be seen curve If you are alive, then you will be able to breathe well from the boundaries of the redt line is made outside the same a plane perpendicular to the plane of the axis of the mirror, the image will appear particularly curved. After all in small pieces of this kind I will have an accident deceived, that in the convex phrycs But see the demonstrations of these in Art noftra Anacamptica Concave cylindrical mirrors they have properties. First, the same ferd to them, what happened to them. De for these lights and colors are di- the fit and the removal are made one and the same the object seems to be that one or two or three, and returned and fertile convex the shore diverges, and seems to be flat hollow and convex For fi is alive from return through a plane line parallel to the axis fpe butt, the image will be seen elsewhere, Sc ma- Actress jor Various figures ra for vario fit in con hollow cylinder drico The Great Book of Art jor ipfa line, sometimes convex, sometimes complex, otherwise multiple: fed fi vifus terms li neae reCts evenly difting becomes extra ip-
plane perpendicular to the plane of the fpe axis of the back, the image will appear to be particularly curved. Yes life becomes in the plane of the line reCts oblique to the plane, the axis of the axis, the image will be seen curve, inverla: If the verb is in a perpendicular plane see the right image of the dicular axis, and the inverts ri poteft, otherwise equal to the ipfi line, aliks fimplex, otherwise multiple: fi at the bottom of the image if you place his idol in the air, it will be seen outside of Ipeculum. Profit V. If common feBio f 'reflection of surfaces nis, Jpeculi cylmdracei hollow has been around play or ellipsis, the reflection will be done elsewhere by one, sometimes by two, sometimes by three, sometimes by four The small punishments will be seen as many pictures Vitel. years the ninth When the lesson is a circle, it must be counted are, which are said to infphsri- cis concave Instead of ellipsis I propose this verb too optically express the figure in which Ellipfis reprslentat some balin filter nae, in which the object is reflected to the eye B, from E. By which polish is determined the place eyes, St pun&um reflection, when X. Magia Lars It. Lemper with the same object A. Let them be led then AE, HE, in the center of the beak H, BE, a, pnnCto A led squidiftans femidiame- three times HE, which becomes AN. Ciira therefore AN squi- HE disappears, BE coincides, with AN, becomes which concurred in N. Finally apundto H erect the axis HX, St a punCtoB, perpen you will have a big mustache, which will be quidiftant axi, which becomes BT, St is drawn TN, St from the point T, is erected above the same fu I will finish the mustache EQ and squidiftan tes TB EQ, so they will be in fuperficia the triangle TBN, therefore EQ, will make TN at the point QSt will be EQ, the line of length of the column: from the point Q, draw an equi- extending the line NA, or HE, which indeed it coincides with the axis XH, and becomes bent at point V, St the line TA is drawn, Quam He will make QV, in I; for QV, it is in the fuper the figure of three points ANQUIA QN, NA are parallel, St passes through Q But the TNA triangle is also in the same bisector of the triangle NAq, ergoTA, QV are in the same fuperficia, St ideo TA, le- cansAN, in A, will lick its parallel, QV, fecetin I, and the line AQjPa- so that the angle BEH becomes equal to ENA, because AN, HE are parallel, and so BEH is equal to HEA, StEAN, water the line HEA, the angle ENA, the angle EAN, wherefore EN, equal to EA, EQeft to ip- therefore the triangle is perpendicular QEA, equal to the triangle QEN, St QN, equal to QA, Sc will be QEIA, the water angle lo QAN. But the angle is a shark QNA, St angle IQA, alternating sharks QAN, therefore IQA sharks IQT. Why? A, is reflected to the eye at T, from the point reflection Q ReCta AHC, gives the location of the image in C, where AHC, meets the reflected ray EBC, in flat mustache; but the verb in ellipsis, in which ra the long reflex is QT, to be drawn from point A, perpendicular to a certain tangent line in punctuation: for where AT does this, where is the lowest place those fertile gins, which are considered prop. wolf {orrollary From this it is clear that the same object Lemper is only seen, however much that dilcefleris a fpeculo, provided that in Miupnr be moved by the same line of reflection, Sc the same lemper eye will be placed. Hence it is done, as from whomsoever Ipacio was affixed to Ipe-ve the tail turned into a mere flame let it appear, where the light is at that point in which Ipecius becomes a perfect shelter, ap you fold, is that the point? in which the catheter Qatoplrica. i Jjjluowodc mu flea it is hidden in the ele phantom the reflection lines of the anacamptics to be joined, which did not happen, I was snowed in with her they are parallel. If, therefore, the fub a continuation of this Anacamptics line you have grown so great, great make the flame of the fire as wild as fpeculi fuperficies should be given. If therefore fpe- what would be the diameter of which fifty feet, you would see a flame, or with a little light a huge caufatamite, as a certain fiery mountain appeared. Potter's Heart II PAtet from this wonderful thing in fpeculo, qubd no matter how small the object so fpeculi concavi however large ca so fill peace and peace, that be at least something small, for example a grain Poppy, or any small animal
in the weight of inversion, that is to such an extent the size of the evacuees is what it is small things; therefore it was palm gins, fleas, spiders, or the like what is polished there, the fuperficium fpeculi ma it will equalize the size of the fua.
ftilfem, nifi fuse these all to Vitellius and others will demonize them. CHAPTER VIII Diftindio II Vefpeculis parabolico, biperbolico, ellipti co, eorumejue ajfeclionihus There is so much conic fpecula-
Variously, for ma fpeculi cont I carried, I caved. CHAPTER VI Of conic fpeculis, eorwnjue pro the prices Properties of cones of the convex ones are these: If the line is straight obliquely cut the vertex of the fpeculi co the nits are convex, it is reflected from the conical side to live between the dida line fpeculi made of falsehood, and of every image little the curve will be seen if the red line becomes parallel, the width of the fpeculi, Sc is made alive outside the plane did the lines of the bafi parallel, it will be reflected from the ellipse, and the image will be seen especially why va: fed fi reda line, nor vertici fpeculi let it fall obliquely to the conic, nor to its width it becomes parallel, an image of various obliqueness for He will offer a varied shore: but the lines are oblique Exiftentes between these two modes, which ap they draw near to the fuo motion of the lines stretched out in the length of the cone, they have shapes again convex But they approach the lines squidifting width, they have forms manifest the convexity, and the whole picture is painted he puts on a conical ram, and the one nearer fpeculo, eb major; which is more distant from me Nor will it appear. The same hollow conical fpeculum Prophecy has properties that conca for in this case the Cylindrical vum is less crooked, and hollow, and they appear to them. Who I would gladly demonstrate everything in this place, I found it partly in the Anacamptic Art pres- the boundaries of the nations, as I do not own aquifita ftudio, fed divinely it seems to me that it is not enough. For who is not mine? the return of man's intellect from whence it came, as some lines from the singular figures he would find, full of things to marvel at ephedrics, which is made in the universe of Geome three, so that in the Catoptrica there is infinity they obtain a ufum, so that it is not unmeritb great The surveyor becomes cenfend, who in hilce'fue well done For with the help of these these small pieces are also made, which in burning and igniting every caution You were able to protect their strength with many shields are given In fphsricis indeed concave li nes incident, to use in the axis of the fpeculi rever are lost, so that in this case all the lines are united pound axis reverberats converge, in how powerful are their operations, that they may be seen as meritorious; no let the same truth be brought to life a good experience ftabilifTet. Of these therefore, in preparation, the operation and the owls were surprised by the smoke, as Le- pain, with which he is able to exercise his talent, ha happy Problem ejt axi pa raboles, with which he would thus bear the parable
it is IJ1 Jfrtis Liber d B, Vertices exiftente in A, draw FBG, becomes perpendicular to the axis, St and BF, AB becomes twice as much as BG; The whole mouse is also missing in the parable, so- F G, each of the four AB the return of the parable, as it is oftenfum from the sea no Ghetaldo Propof. ij. de parabola They will be but the punda FG, in the parable of the lost of the first conics, because the square EB or BG gmento axis AB, St fub side redo FG For since FG is four times the length of AB, FG, AB, will also be a square plum square AB Eft St quadra- Cundaria E, M. Problem To avoid hyperbole. is transferred to AB, vertices hy- the spheres A, B, and the center of C. Foci, feu punda from comparison fada DE, so so that the angle BDA, or ABE, becomes ace then FB, the same quadrilateral AB, is a quadruple quarter: part of the figures, leuredanguli him. Therefore the square FB, or BG, e et redangulo fub FG, AB: ergo pun give FG, firnt in a parable. But other pundas are found in this month I give On either side of the vertex A, ab- two equal parts AC, AD are formed i lub latere tranfverfo AB, St tedo conten
that the red side is found in this way. From AD are erected perpendiculars to AB AL, JHDI; ipfique AD, the lights are equal AF, BF are cut off from DI, reduplicate DG, to which AM becomes equal, twice Sc to the other side where C, repeat CE AK, quadruple AL. I say AL, take the side aqualis ipfi CB, and fumptoque interval BD, i redum; St punda HI they were cut off at the same distance from the centers j lam j fi HH, DI, fint double each of them DG. , BE, four arcs fe mutually producing this is equal to ipfi AK, all HI, asqua- three in pundis Ht. I say, punda H, I, fis latri redo AL. indeed in a parable. For when BH, EH; fint For, as BD to DG, leu to equal intervals, St CB, CE are equal, ne- AM, so is BA, to AF: feu to AD; will be cefle is the double HC, the perpendicular ef the retracement angle BDA is equal to the retracement angle fe to EB; And the same is true of the reda IC. BAM, and the BDA is a watery quarter The square of CH, or CI, is equal to the figure. therefore, as BAM, there is a quarter of a shark FG, AC In fact, the figure of the half-1 part; Sc auia the same BAM redangu- meters BH, fint equal, St quadra-; h, is the fourth part of the redanguHBAL, eo then BH becomes equal to the square of BC, CH: when AL becomes four times more than AM, it will be cord BD, equal to the same square- BAL ipfa figure, St AL right side hy- to BC, St redangulo quater comprehen- Io lub BAC, per fecundi: fublato com fortify the square BC, it will remain square BAC but the redangulum is four times BA, St AC, the same with the reduction angle of AC, FG; which is further from AB, is fourfold. Therefore where the wire CH is equal to the reduction angle contained to fub the segment of the axis AC, redo the side 8c FG, through of the first cones hard H in a parabola; bottom Sc pundus because of the same cause it is in the same pa scraper But let us give another example. They are taken dn axis on both sides to the top whatever the other two portions equal to AK, AL; 8t to the other side where K, redaKM, aqualis ipfi KB, St centris BM; (focus Emm B, femper is the second center of the two bus was described by an interval BL other than the bow of fe mutually fertile in pundis N, O, which also will be in the parable for reason I will give it now. Ghetaldus leads the perpendiculars CH, KN: eafquefecat in pundis HN, defcri- by bending from the center B, the arc of the circles in tervallis BD, perbolas The fact that H is a pound is to be understood as a little ad hyperbola, will be through the first conic as BA, to AL, this is, as CB, fe- Miflis to AK femifel; so the reding BDA, this is the redangle of BM, to which the wire HD, as well as CA to AK, so is the redangulum CK, or the redangulum BM, (for each is a fourth part redangu li BM) to the square AK. Why should they give back? he has a throat BM, to the squares AK, DH, the same proportion, and far away rea asqualia between fe, 8t redas AK, DH sharks Taking therefore DH as ipfi AK, feu twice as much as DG a pound H to the hyperbola, the side of which AB is transversal, and AL is returned. with and in this hyperbole with parabola which in both is ordinarily applied by the fireplace becomes like a brick redo, what you want it is given, for it is allowed to be worthy of oblervation the hyperbola segment of the axis AD does not become L return to the side; it is, however, an average proportion nal between the transfer St FG, which is the difference between AM, the fourth part widely ris redi, Sc AD, feu AF As for the matter dangulum BN, BM, fint qualia, this Catoplrlca. dl A. O, is left OM, equal to the square of AN, And therefore to AD, feu AF; is the middle between OF, FM; this elt, between AB, FM. Others, as many as one wants to punda hy- perbolic, are easily found through inter- the dions of the bows, as in the parable; extra al a hot fire, for example fupra E, fu mature as it may be, P: for it is done the two intervals AP, BP are terminated; which between the same weight P, and both are turned cem AB, are intercepted; and these two circles bus intervals recorded from foci ED, fe mutual fecabut in hyperbolic puns QR; for utraq; hyperbola rum, if he pleases to write both of them.
The foundation of this tax is Prop. of the third conic, where oftened; redes EQ, DQ, which conedunt punda DE from com preparation of fada, that is, fires with pun- give hyperbolic; for example Q, differ re between fe side transfverfo AB, cujuftnodi Indeed, there are intervals AP, BP; of whom please same point via interle- we find the dions of the arcs: for the reda BP I will transfer the reins to the side AB. And the reason for this other practice is the same; for he wants to find a point again some Q, near the top of A, he smokes two parts such as AS, AT fupra, below A, 8c center E, interval ES, and center D, in tervallo DT For I kill one of the bows he will give the punishment CT, or R, ; instead of hyperbole to be described For the interval ED, the greater is the distance DT, the amount of lateral transf- AB is turned: for if from ES, AB is drawn, re remain EB, this is, AD, AS. But the ipfi AS it is watery AD: fada therefore fubtradione the interval DT remains, and so on the rest. Problem Ellipjin defcribere. QltABaxis greater, and the same diameter transfer, and the center of the Ellipse C; foci feu punda from comparison fada DE, this let the angles BDA, AEB, fint be equal in the fourth part figures, HDI, AL, fint the axis perpendicular, AF, equal ipfi AD, and then BF, will make DFIin G; and thus GD becomes equal to AM, AK; he then DG, or AM double, &ALquadru plain I say AL effe side redum, punda HI from Ile to ellipfin, fi DH, Di, are smoked double the same GD. For as BA to AF, feu to AD; yesBD, addDG, fire at AM; the angle of reduction will be equal to B AM BDA redangula fedBAM, it is the fourth part of the redangula BAL Therefore BDA is the fourth part of the same. Since then the BA side the transversal side is made, it will be AL returned. Qupd fi is supposed to touch the pound H elliplim, it will be through the of the first cones as BA, to AL; this is as CA, to AK, so redangulum BDA, feu BAM to the square and DH But as CA, to AK; so be it again throat BAM, feu CAK (e6 qu6d both
then AK, fi AK is smoked as Common. Why one and the same redangula CAK, has the same proportion to the two qua- drataDIL, AK; and therefore the square of DH, AK, lunt equal, AK, DH equal Now AK is twice as long as DG. Therefore DH. When, therefore, it becomes DH from the beginning polished, it will be a pound H, the same lines from at the beginning they were polished to the ellipsis: and it is the same ra tio depudis I, N, Q; fiDl, EN, EO fint double redas DG And from here it melts HDI, NEO also arranged in Ellipsis effe the sequels of the side redo AL Quptcunqqe, another punda found; Nnnti as Artis magna Laber X. Magia 'Part III. and it is done; between the fireplaces, smokes that- the force of the pound P, and the centers D, E, interval lis BP, AP, are drawn off the arc of each other licks in QJR, S, T s punda for R, S, T will be in ellipses. Since the punda DE, fint ex comparison fada s fi pun while, for example, Q would be understood to el- the lipfim, let it return to the lower part of the axis AB aquatic fed such lunt also intervals AP, BP; with which we find the interdiction a pound of QHBrgo a pound of Qj? oc just found elt to ellipm; for otherwise from From where are the lines of the ipfi inclined? APBP, aquatics to different pundas, which it is against the 7th of the first elements. From this it is clear, punda VX, in which three the minor axis is threatened, to be held, fi from pun push DE to the perpendicular VCX, in clinentun linea aquelas femiaxi ACsfic for also reda RH, EX, a water trough then the axis AB, and the square CX or CV, is the shape of a quarter of water; and therefore the proportional mean between CA, AKs for the BDA, together with square DC, water is by square CA, this is square DX, but so that it is square. I bought it therefore, with a common CD, a square is left then water cut BDA, feu by the waters of the lake, by which all things are lost lia to the fourth part of the figure Problem A caujlic mirror, which to dtfidntutm burns a twelve-foot object to complete with the help of a parable. let the first circle be made of leafy wood, and I draw, in the manner of a pole, as in the figure appears, or every foot of lon Gus, tying two obels, one in a pun do A, to fix the circle in the center
immovable, attached to the other movable curforum D. This circle, starting from the center A carefully on each foot with nails each of which again in or let it be made, divided, according to the discretion of each. Let, for example, be the vertex B, which we place ourselves at a distance of feet from the center A it should be fixed, it will fix the CD, it will be ordered from C four feet from A, B on either side in a diftante duda, fpacium DF, in a parabola FB should be deleted. Therefore, in the most important way let the line AC be drawn on a flat plane, four feet next to the quantity of feet drawn in a circle. In equal measure two let the line CD be perpendicular to AC, in C normally inflating. When I finished in the circus no difference AD, so you will find. When in In the third book of this work, oftenfum occurs, AD let the diftance of the tile be the diftance of AB mul with CB, feu which is the same, center feu foci from the top together with CB, diftantia fe- ordered from the top; since therefore AB od pedus conftiutur from hypothefi, Sc BC four feet from the mortgage tuatur, erit diftantia AD, necefiTariO feet, which quasrebatar Here you go there is a twelfth foot fixed in a circle move the curforum with the obel; and pretend cast feet into or parts, or divide each other into parts, using DN. Go the rum is fixed in D, a plate of iron, or to grind a plain board, so that the board it is subjected to no roars; fed plain ha blessed is such as those who for chal- they are suitable for engraving. In this line from D a line is drawn as a quadrilateral to the line AC parallel to the tectonic plate DN, as in the whole let us divide the parts into how many DNs, di you see, from the word of division parallel to the pound they will also be led to CD femiordina- as well. When they were finished, I promoted the Curfori mobile obelo fupra punda divisions in DN, see where the promoted will draw the line parallel G, for there will be a pound prepared balls Again I promoted the obeli by the weight of the wolf fequens pundus in DN, fic firmato, vi from where the line H will be made while advancing, for there will be a third pound in the preparation bola: &fic you will advance in all the rest a pound in F For if h$c punda in li you will have to draw a curve FD is a fragment of the parabola, which is from the plate the reef will give a measure, which in matter make any chalky form, in which the fufu fpeculum will be parabolic at burning the thing that was a few feet away. Because the verb beyond or feet a long circle can hardly be made here we will teach the method of exadiffimurn, how give the given number of fubfid numbers let us not be able to arrange it. Pro- Problem V. The segment of the parabola, whose center, (eu fo cus, twenty feet Jit defiant, to propose. We propose this method to make it easier and the previous information, with which it was given with any difficulty proportionate to the action, for example feet so we can light it. Therefore let W center of reflection, feu focus, X vertex the parables of any one whose difthancy becomes feet j from whose parabola which means the division of parabolas along the axis y. It is proposed to repair the feet, as for example there is a CD. Therefore, without that foot fpeculi lit future diameter, the femiordinate from fcilicet from Z pando Axis leaders And it comes from the bypothefi ZX f. feet, and one quarter XW of the line vi a hundred feet, and finished next to it that book of the conic faiths of the demon ftravimus, femiordinate WY feet; and it will be as XW, to the square of WY, so XZ, to the square ZD. So like WY, it is double to XW; so ZD, to XZ, du it will be nice, I will prepare 8c XW axle the sharks, to which I added ZX five feet cias, it will be WD zj feet If therefore in la a certain modus operandi You will redo line you will create a module for Ipeculus cauftico at feet burning And how much more the roof of the fpeculi read rit, tantb also uret more distantly: as li ED if it is five feet, the reflection will be li nea CW feet; width there will be a CD But now to the calculus. Put the mouse therefore set foot in 3as, or be divided, and they will come for one foot or and it will be ZX Too. ZD WY of the particles of one foot: this will be
again square ZD square then WY and it will be as XW line to the square WY so XZ to the square then UZ whose root is Ite- rum, ficati XZ part to the square ZD part. so yor. particles which are equal to five feet, X part, that is to say, diftantia to the first fel square root tx, which are led from him j and will proceed whose root is when Indeed, the verb Tff, bring the parts to less than one Jtfdgid Catoptrica yiyi complete, you will be able to do this femiordinate fi lest he be unscrupulous, and with a line of false error, etc to begin for and it will be these femiordi born of two particles, the first of which It has longer. again, that you may find the third femiordinate, let it be as XZ to ZD square so f which are asked, and will come out. whose root is such as and therefore first order of partium lon I am divided into four parts; so in the rest You will proceed to find semi-orders. Where hafce the quantities of order If you are inveterate with the method, nothing is wrong, nothing to bring them back to the table, then la threats, as the figure teaches you, inscribe j for a curved line near the boundary of the punda fumnaa care will give duda on the plate XW, feet, or fi these things too much, a sheet of width ZX five feet, feet in length, and more, aft smoke parabolic roof smoke Diligence will give an excellent measure, by which let us define the matrix, the feu form, in with which the Ipeculum should burn at and feet In order to have perfect verb tenses you give, so work. Let AB be feet Rome nor part, which is again divided into as figure teaches; then draw the line EF, how do you divide the parts into and its width becomes GH, or EI, and it will be from I to IG, or it goes Q. deorfum, each in IG, from EI, or GH of each in IG, y. fic about the camp. To be green lines BD can be given, you will take from EF parts, eafqne you transfer from Bin R. Again from IH, you will receive each in QU and these are y. From which it is clear, AD where do you draw the water lines, so that they differ? the rent was scarcely detected by the circle. But that by this art one can further regulate the order to search powerfully; so it shall be done, that I be with AB foot. tutegro is continued, because it is organized from such a weight, that is to say, If verd femiordinate CA is deducted from that, a difference of remains. femiordinate quafi 9of0-. From which it is clear a parabola fertile axis of one foot not tall whose parts are whether they make the foot, it becomes curved. a Pro- Problem VI. Given the difkantia punBi ujloni, parabolica Jeelion, however small in matter, which, however, in the greatest poverty to write Let there be a lack of revenge given to some feet Take it for the side of the red two times the difference given, namely AE. Given the parables of Bafis, it becomes a CD billed on E: then for three pounds of CBD, circle the prodigal EA was referred to B. I say BE elfe diftantiain foci from the top of the parabola: fi- for the cut side EA fe has to le- the ordered EC, thus EC, to EB, which all the things that have been demonstrated in a fuse are fired from us book match of conic faiths. As and to the last part of the CD, a parable. to lead the way You will bring those born tion, which in the cited li bro it's funny, in I will tell those who are fertile there If the verb is too par- vengeful vengeful beards but it would be diftant the biggest, by the numbers business experience days Let us, for example, construct a parable qua2 ad do He burns his palms, but his mustache it is made of four palms: at first it is diftant quadruple, that you may have a red side, which will be and half of it will be find the third proportional number tur, let it be that to the distance of the focus from the top. Go rum are drawn in le &perprodu I will give you what you want. Problem VII. Given the focoj 'Verticem parabola mVinere. As part of the axis of the parabolas AB, CJqualis ordinarily applied BC: quasri- there the vertex E, the focal point of the parabola exifting A Iffi AC is abfeinted by asqualis AD,
BD is bisected in E, for the butt E will be the vertex of the parabola. In numbers, fi AB, BC fint that the square of will be the square of AC &AC, leuAD, redaverb I 10Tli. If BE, BC are given, the focus A will be found, fi ipfi BE smoked asqualis ED, St string DC, a bifurcation will be made in F, perpendicular to! for laris FA gives fire A, for fic circu lus Hefcriptus from A, through D, abfeindit order born BC What fi BA is meant is the letter in 2r. parts, will contain any out of which the whole BA is crushed by the bus: from the tongues, indeed, of this one the pillars of faith are erected the thing, that which is easy to fadu, is done by fi BA parallel DC, 8t are transferred to ipfam BA plants But as in the linguis iftis be found perpendicular to punda pa- rabolica, two of which are B, C, that is given will be, for example in the perpendicular GD, in this way. The first reda AG contains parts from and so the hundredth of the whole BA Therefore, the square of BA will be but the square of BC is to the square AB, to the square AG, so it is CA zojii. to DI, therefore by rule of the three will be counted But because CA has an attached fraud, works pre that will be done, fi BA, AG for the same part let them be drawn, namely FB to StAGad so that the square fint divide by the square of BA, they leave of which BC is this is DI, eftf fire 6j. almost, and so on the rest. But if The square of BA is divided by the square AC, and the quotient is added to AC; produce then the diameter of the circle, or semicircle, which passes through BC, and has its center in ipfo axe, fic didafemidiametererit5oy. qua for a wire of makes half of this is? oHinc through the tables of the ends will be found the perpendicular GlH also through the circumference of the circle CB, for from KI, -velati finu is also considered fine com Catoptric magic. of completion, which is fubtrad from the end of the whole leave EK, five HI. But see figure proceeding AD axis of the parabola, D vertex, BC or dinata parts BD depth fpe- Therefore, when BC divided by BD let him make as many parts as will give the difthance of the foci DA. For discovery the parable of the many pounds Divide BC into equal parts, so that let the mold contain the parts and the exam is done pli example BF, hujufinodi parts in the hundredth of these F, is meant ere- give the perpendicular FGH, and it will be also GI of parts, each of square meters. the square of verO BC will be will have a proportion to the square of IG BD to DI, feu to HG; this is square then BC, square IG, and draw BD let's put it as Therefore, let it be as BC then the number for DI, or HGfto. this it is fi the same BD, or f. with the rope the tenth, and the story of others. Im6 not pus is any rule of three: it is fate, fi order lest the twenty-five squares should be cut off
but in the hundredth parts of the matter give BC If it is chosen as a parabolic mirror, no matter the depth; meter size anywhere meter BC, and the same is divided into oqual parts, and by punda division draw a parallelogram of the ipfi BD, qualis is FH; will be found in ipfis pundu para- the bolicus G, from the table of the ma parallel ipfi BD be considered HG flo. straight BD, in fertile parallel in three tia tIIIo the reason is because the numbers are are the squares of who they make an arithmetical progression from through gefimo fifth hemidiameter BC, fi BC in it is understood that the parts Thus one part contains two three And it was done will be the square redo BF
Comparison of concaYi, parabolic fpkaric, elliptic, and their uviis infipeculis finishing Problem
To determine the segment of fphartei fpeculi.
xoo. Qj(g-a for quadratanu-
"They will earn HG clays, in parts. redoBD, as can be seen in Table here ad- slain, by which I also smoke can be for anyone that of others in depth bus BD, as fi BC po nature of parts,
divide the same BC into parts What happened BC it becomes f a span. DA becomes false ifh is continued Therefore He would burn this little thing to f palm, ff o. hoc it is the same palm, and the depth of BD, eritf femipalm In the ifta table read straight lines rice HG are presented in parts redo BD, this is what it is of parts DB, it is such in the first per to hang, it will be red Let B be the vertex of the small fphoric, A the focus in tervallum AB f span, angle, which the reflected ray makes with the axis, this is the angle BAC, fitgr. Let BG be perpendicular to AB, and angle GBC, gr. 7i BC coincides with AC in C, ipfi- that AC is smoked with the ear of AE. I say EC fo re oqualem EB For when AC, AE is fint oquales, will be in the triangle of Ifofcel ACE angles to the beak, oquales, each gr. eo qubd fimul fint oquales angle BAC degree Then be the angle GBC grad. min. it is removed from the redo, it will be left angle ABC grad. min. two ABC, BAC filum will be grad. ii2. min. and the rest of the ACB grad. min Ad then say the angle ACE grad. will be all angle ECBgrad. min. ear at the angle EBC, and so EB, EC they are oquals. And the arc BC, drawn from the distance E EB, there will be curvature and concavity of the fpeculi fphorici, in which the radius EC, in C, paral the line of the axis AB will be reflected at A by the reflected ray C A: for it will be an angle lus FCA, oqualis CAB gr. and because ACE is and the remainder is ECF17. this there are two angles of intersection and of reflection fade with femediameter, feu catheto why of life BC, they will be oquals. That which is made from C to AB, let ISf. nnn days,
ISO IOGOO j Artis Magnct Uber U. Mwia (Part of the dicular CD will be the depth of BD li, St DC femidiaraeter. For a parabolic mirror. Determine the segment of the parabola. The vertex of the parabolic mirror becomes the same point while B, focus A, with the fuo interval AB the same, nor St angle BAC. So for it will be more manifest in both cases collation. It was demonstrated by Marino Ghe- You were in the prophecies of the Parable, let the side of the parabola be made fourfold tervalli AB, such as is meant here by the BG although the whole is not expressed. From Apollonius the verse conftat, the square app cat, for example rede CD, like a shark redangulo comprehenfo fub side redo St basset BD Finally, from that point on A is the angle of the triangle ADC gr. Necefe is the square of AI triple the square of CD, this is red throat DBG If, therefore, redo AB, it will be done in this way D, as the square of AD, becomes a triple redangu- I understood the rest of the DB St fub quadruple AB, will be found profun I will return the wealth of fpeculi BD& the square root guli DBG, he will give a half-measure fpeculi, of course I will return the CD. How but let the prasdida be weary, oftendi elsewhere a mouse, not fed in threefold proportions in any one; also to others. For given with two lines, such as AB here, give St. the same quadruple should not be made, to divide it into two parts, as the square of one to the redangular fub on the other hand, the 8t fub has an unfaithful date for it portion: in this cafu therefore particular let AD be taken, be the square of AB mul be multiplied by St from the square root ftib is drawn fextuple AB. In place of the lower part of the BCD, the acci It is pious to explain something else here in the lower figure tius, and in ipfo the chord bc is drawn, Sc another h i k, parallel b d St m, parallel JvTdgut cb, and the ratio d b, to bm, will be ea dem, qucb, addbi, this is cd, addh. But as c d, to d h, so it is by Quadra tures the parables of Archimedes, h i, adi k, so is d b, to b m. From these is deduced the method of calculating the matter you give ki Both c d and d b are understood Let it be divided into equal parts by a continuum I would divide the fnbdivision into two, and it would be understood for example dh, of the same kind of parts so so that the remaining ch becomes part and it becomes fimih- let db be made to bm, so I will give m the rest another: for this will be reda i k, which ipfi na d, adjeda compose the whole h k. That fi the same rede h k, is to be found in par-, tibus redas bd, prout eft fpeculi profun riches, and known in parts of
of the interval AB: the division will be no and as often as thirty times twice to be added to the fibi. So for the axis md, feuhi, re- fpondentes reciprocally fegmentisch, this eft, fi dm, ftint fruitful trigefims ipfius db, it is also c d trigefim fe going to the whole c d Demonstration; It is also taken k o n, since, therefore, cd, kn, junt order, let it be dbadbn, this thus the square c d to the square k n, fen im, or even the square qua the wire b i, so on c b, b i, b o2 ftint is continually proportioned, this is, as c b, to b i, the whole whole, so that i b is taken away to the ablate I will: therefore the rest co, ad it will be that the whole c b, to the whole i b, this is, that cd, to dh This demonstration is easy ap fold, ad parabola with reda h c, are to be understood as pro- bold turn c. Problem 'Registration of an elliptical line, feu norm fertile than to be excavated the caufiic light, which burns ad the distance of one foot D Eda VT is the menfura of one foot Ro JLmani of the ancients, and it is a half-diameter small size The same is true in equal parts in pundis And from the same source, nor, not from pund Great Book X. Magic 'Part III. siin5to V, created: they are the same amount culars, of which the first v. g. contains par fOO. from parts ioooo into which to return TV feda is understood. Perpendicular The verb contains from the same parts ioooo. the benefits of which are found in the CT arc {wave i. Quffi with due di- forced, and industrious, continued from they have a normative half: , fruitful how little revenge must be excavated. If the last figures are omitted, how much so the older ones are the five, the closest ones to the first one is added the unit, the rest are numbers they will count the thousandth parts of the retda VT, which from the destruction of parts into a hundred in Nuis Maginus is said to be a kind of tribe of Iapis push it harder The material of the ver6 fpeculi ivy we wrote True, when the faith of the conics is fixed ras per pundta deferiptium, nifi the greatest mul they are smothered by the protection, it becomes deceptive, here is another thing let us make a new intrument, by which unico, continuoustoduduauaslibetdata Conical fattio decribi poffi. A New Injlrument to Conical lest they should be carried away. Compiled from p. rules: four mant redangulurn ABCH, two gno- the parts of the division are most conveniently taken in the EFG monem, and the two alices in the twin monem this method is defined by pundta. Norma HIK, and one rule LM, which is called differs little from the curvature of the circle, whose fe- Redtor. the diameter is feet Ai. or A. in this for they are almost perpendicular to the circle the same with the former, which for the ellipse com We thought, as it is evidently gathered from Fe. The rule AB has the curforum O, and ipfi the other two would join together for the rules KI, EF. Others have three curfores to I, F, Q. , axis butts, about which they can be moved by the rules. going with the same perpendicular numbers i Finally, to N, there is another double curfor, those taken from the former to the rest are open in shape, fummum Tif oV of one foot, or iW. fire rh- the same But he did it more willingly, who ean- Parable. the curvature of the elliptic pundta dili genter defcripferit, or at least through the arc axes of the parabola AB, curfor A sides of the several circles, finding the first covered AC, redtorM, K, will be applied the center in the redta CV, protradba pro crcu- I C, becomes parallel to the axis AB, to which also lo, which adheres through the point C, and through the point S1 to the side of the rectangle MO, and hence ma- he walks, then another center in the same CV for another circle, which by pundta f. it is carried; another rurlum for pundtis y. and finally another thing for pundtis St T For on this account the difference will be much smaller the rent of all the four bows from the bow elliptically, so as to be at a single interval. St from only one center the circle bore tur per pundta CT Forms conftirdtuo a experts in the art of fuforia must be sought, whose such material is made of neceffe, which is curved He does not easily lose what he has entrusted to us it is fixed, or it is cooked. John Anto the intrumentum is moved by the strings, St. ftylus G will convey a parable.
For when MGA, the fee is returned, and OLM femiredtus, femper square or of the square OG is equal to the rectangle AOM, this is AOjL, or OAC, as he desires pa scraper jHyperbata The transversal diameter is AB, the side re- dtum C: firmato curfore F, in A, with on the side of the parallelogram, and on the back of the book pundta C, B, should the intrument be moved? de- and let G strike the hyperbola. For the square of the order GO is as following redangle MOA? five FOL dynatSB They are amazing ejfeffus fje of the blind caujlico tmn which, applied to the side of redo AC, was And it exceeds or similar figures of the BAC. Ellipsis The major axis becomes AB, the minor axis CD proportional, the feu side of the redum BE. . Retor applied to AE, side parallel logram to AB, curfor with fuo cla vo inB, And the square will be arranged GO, as- what kind of redangulu MOB, feuBOL, that applied iplx BE, it fails and is tired LE, is the son of the redangular ABE. Therefore. CHAPTER Diftindio IIT c Of the mirrors cdufici, fire ufonjs, their- what jets as much as the Authors will write, di- will they set fire to the ships? The truths will be fulfilled, which the Authors de The mirrors of Archimedes are handed down, fa He had overstepped the limits of genius, and thus the Magicians the greatest of the natural mysteries, and prodi- gjofiffimnm must be censured with merit. Kefcio for what is strange and prodigious that catoptric fire will say: who will kill him? in the kitchen with that noftro fire thing, sharper, purer, more efficient to obtain the power of burning? It also holds other powers in common by no means condescending to our fire, for it melts lead and tin; return the gold and other metals to him The wood is also more futile Jophagia Catoptrica it is burnt, and the sulfur is at the ends of the wood the polished matter, while it melts, causes it to boil indeed, yet it does not set fire to: the glass it breaks, it does not burn, unless you force it to the fire three fruits would be placed, then perhaps a glass it would melt. Of this fire therefore by fpe- by forcing the butt into one pound, ftindione will be postponed, where at first Ar Proclique mechanisms for chemicals we will marry Two impressive, and remember to the whole world the spectacles of who, by this connivance of machination against lfiurn unaided by Ufi, by their conquest they have finished the fame of the name. The first is Archimedes, the second Proclus. De A few of these are held by Archimedes Tzezem Hiftor years Gilead His words I bring it from the grass. Plg S' ctTjiswtt (ZcsXluj ctidvtig f T7 tTtKTlu-ct b yzqyv TZtau-m Kjs. Tvirrr&t hrelg ispfya. XiTnai te yiyfxtpuotg, Msasy CKGiVO AKTIVOCV twv Ais Avascxuiay Koi7rh eis tSvu Ty ehenym Tcti; oKngioj1 tu. vvxc etmii Qpuriv wt, But when Marcellus had removed them to JaBum arcus l Fenech made some kind of hexagon. But from the diftantia of the commenfuratafpeculi Small such fp from the eyelashes cumpovijfet quadruple corners, fffua the plates were moved, and each of the fcutyturi The sun's rays poured out that medium RefraBis deim eps in this rays She was lifted up by a formidable unknown ship And these he reduced to ashes with the length of the bow of JaBus, The other was Proclus, about whom he will strike Zonoras. Ortecus tertio luariim hiftonarum. tomo, chinmm- that Anaftafius Vitaliano of Thrace Mylos, And the Scythians, conciliating the fibi, vebat, in the Byzantine field do prasdas bat, Claffe forgot the city, by Marcia whether Prasfedus returned, and the naval battle Commiffa, a certain device by the man Proclus the most excellent fada (for it is then in Phi- lophophia, and mechanics flourished, nor Archimedes was the most famous worker he knows everything, fed lpfe new some he had found) the claffis of Hoftium were defeated. mOm dnufUotti freMfaeniiut, tx-mis tcuv auiUm K: (i', G[ivxd7tc'i iktiS-ct u'7Ciyjtiuyt iyor The projecting of fire is carried, Proclus, and it ex the wall on the side of the boftilmm ships fufpendijje, in which the cumfolares of the rays conqeUi ejfent, fire thence a thunderbolt burst forth from the sailors, and all the ships of the hofliles combujf ffe. Galen where
that in the third book of Archimedes thus OutouTatojc 7u'f dSlwfaai Sidtwt 'iMorpiiffUi toV iSttruMptlur f vrm vi im etc. (J e&tw, (J jvm-n-fitt, g (g tapSrfg, g Ij, J', O Archi= Attis Jdagnce Liber JyCagia cross Archimedes was killed by a burning fire triremes incendijfe: it is easily burned with burning fuel, and wool, Jluppa, e? elly the scepter, and the rod, and whatever else dry and rare I wonder what Thomas is doing It occurred to Linacero that this instead of Wie. , commenting on Galen, pyrite is interpreted as stones i or qua For this reason the flames are cut by stones Archimedes on the triremes so many enemies of the Romans he thought the fires to be extinguished it's going to happen I must be wrong; by cL here nothing something else is understood, fcripfifTequc Archimedes a book about them efei ii$? UQjtav? who was born under the name of Gogava I give the same interpreter is carried around, tra says Rivaldus in the life of Archimedes. But already It is to be seen at first How much did Archimedes, and Proclus born? they set fire to the enemy's forces.
Dijldntla, Jiye Virtutis caujljc# fphani in the fpeculi of Archimedes. Diodorus to the three ships of Marcel He said that Archimedes was fe diftantia; others, as Cluverius in Fua Sicily, at three miles For cate- however, it seems that Tze- zes, who has determined the importance of the flute nat: but he cast down the flute for the bows We are very different from each other; stronger bows I threw the shot at others to a greater, and to a lesser extent. In with so much uncertainty, while in I will transfer to Syracuse, the place from which Ar ships burned with the help of bells flfle is delivered, I carefully examined, re- and the space is much less empty than that The authors deliver, that is to say immediate to the walls of that ancient Acra- they called the dina, of the city. Whence I gathered that poflible fuifle combmftion, and a line of caufticum fuifle about jp paf I was for those who ship the ships further they want, those who are full of cautious virtue: to be found guilty in those who are fertile poflimt, as has already been said.
Whether the mirror cast into the infinite Does he want to burn the difference? [Ulti e6, fi ve arrogance, five igno rantings came, to think fpe- what is to be given, that to the infinite it is the difference between the two. Among others this ver6 The device promises the Gate, which that you may understand better, his words are to be quoted I married At a distance, says Archimedes, put We will give a more important measure, from no one who what I do is a tradition of the ancients of all, and the discovery of recent tem, nor do I think that human talent is greater than I could think. This fpeculum is not at the fire burns, or to de a finite difthance s fed ad infinitum in the cone lit, where the rays meet, fed from, fpe- in the center of the buttock, the umbilical line proceeds to each lon of the gitudin, before he burns all obvja Erce. te- rea lit the retrb, in front, and from every side. But I have committed an unworthy deed by leading an ignorant people bi propalate So let him shine into the light, as Jum- The great goodness of my God be praised. Major ex with which a proportionate radius should be advanced there, it grows from the smaller: this should be done by avoiding cylindracete feblioms; for efl means par va, and the axis of the greatest difficulty is conflicted, qm tranfeat by means of parallels: these So Is he opposed to the long rays of the sun? per- perpendicularly to the center of the cylindrical grain, nor can reason be found in this art, as coeun Let the rays join together again: he therefore receives direct those whom he passes through obliquely in the rays far from fua fuperficie s for the rays they passed through the opening of the castle lic b are dilated, and not by elongation eo the rum is boiled in proportion: it will reverberate there, and it burns, where the cone is seen by the light dior s that it will be near the center, and not much will be removed from the point of the meeting of the rays, fed a ray emanating from that point from the fpeculi
parabolic riches, before that place which we have said, let it remain firm. Let it be experienced his virtue J, olis coming out of the center, strings It doesn't matter to the iron, or the feta to them. or ffierica, or other of the same order of fe- clio then it will be adapted to the best fiipra cen trum dichejlclion has ears to hear let God hear, barbarians: we are not spoken, nor br We could have said it more vividly, or more clearly. And here it is the discovery of which the Porta is so excited. And that I never had to put the machine on either has done, he becomes much less experienced, fo- and the plaything of one's own imagination becomes: from this it can be proved, It should be seen that they imitated those who, while by finding a name in the foolish world to impose a winning celebrity They try, first of all, to put words into it birds, and the term from the Hebrews, Arab, Syrian, workshop asking for work they make a fool of themselves. Then from India and in other remote regions of the world before they order to be brought to the air, as a dye With this art, I will try every artist Let them rescue God, let them go by no other means for that knowledge of the most important things what they want to have them, in the curiosity and ignorance of things the countryside in vain Miffa Cot ta. Cook, impotence, . Mwd I trust in my heart. So the Gate at this point that false catoptricte of burning ma he will write down that obscurity, as a truer enigma than (fi dhyfjjs. can be said. In many things, too, I clearly contradicted him wax, or from the neck's own words it is For the lines are not at the top of the cone at the meeting, fed by the parallelism of the rays burn just brings the opposite: now the cylindrical feed, just pa- he smokes rabolic, now fphceric; phew thence he returns, Paulb poft commands the obliques rays He could indeed the door of the unskilled mind to trust but to those who have nature and affection neither with light, nor with mirrors, from which they know intimately that the rum is drunk in order to pervade, this Rhodes, this Forest. For the black white will teach more easily, how much more I was true to this device let him pervade them with the falconers; whence I don't think it's just not probable s fed profuse Mw nature; principles I am openly contradicting myself; and this matter demonstrative reasoning First, do this by burning a little to the greatest which: it can be given that the difference acts, or by a cylinder of revenge, or through a cone of revenge he does not act before, when he is in the cylinder ultorio parallel rays, as cats, to obtain no burning power, nor can any rays be united in a mass no reason in the previous de- we had brought necpofterius, when nul an infinite vengeful game that does not ne- the top of the ceffario proper, and so on fpacio is determined by something, it can be given. Since the light is uniformly distorted three times by both illuminating and burning, as You can have a privilege from nature to everyone as well mis, how fecund, and pecificifque It is certain that the rays of the sun are acting On the first day of the week, a lot To lose strength. For the reflection of the fada they are gradually weakened as if by an ill-fated attack; And the farther they go, the more they use of light, and thus of the efficacy of the prudent power they lose more: that is, how much cone the smell was sharper, and so was the femperuftium the future becomes more ineffective, so that in the greatest radiating rays, no longer conical fed nefeio what cylinder due to in- terfedionum obliqmffimam rays, af they will bring i fi the diftantia was too great, all of them if the rays are no longer in the manner of many, fed by the manner of one line, which opticians know that no power has been betrayed. Yes, the light through the hole of the house grafted so much it appears more obscure, as from the hole He went further, until at last he was in the night let him go. As, therefore, faith has a living ad dtoptncd. I I was an object, so that the light shone on me at the top of the coni uftorii 'j fed vilio none the object was in excessive distress due to fpecies touch the weakness of the vanishing teft so fpeculum revenge, light, Vanishing in excessive heat, produce no trace of combustion
can For let us suppose, the leguminum fpe- specuhM the size of a parabolic ass; size, quantity this would be the cup of Saint Peter, a relative of Ynquii ri. I mean it won't produce any effect in diftantia pafluum, such as has f Roman College from the Temple of God Pe three For if the width is dida; Cupula; dioptra Ptolemaica is smoked from the Roman College I don't nifi an ounce with we shall find that the Romans have a mifle of foot. Who can believe that the revenge of the fpe- to obtain anything in the missing data, with all the rays, except that near they converge to parallelism, so fenfim be weakened, as in a given place do they know? It should also be made from the same plant the greatest three-footed creature, and it will be as the diameter of the greater joc? . feet to God ftantiam paffuum so diameter fpecular tripodal gmenti to another i for they will come fat From what proportion It is clear that the three-footed fig fpeculum parabolic no at 3s. paf I was afraid of the power of burning, I give experience cet in fpeculis even tripalmaris'1, no the snow at the distance of one Roman foot burning; so much less that small piece at any interval of burning to have power If so useless; size fpeculum to do not have any effed It is a matter of fact that it is smaller than most Will it have a mileage difference? But some will say at this point, Effe, Archimedes the burning of the ships do not make perfect parabolic vessels uftorio fuo cono, fed cylinder uftorio reaching five, which is the same, not ra conical diation, fed cylindrical, which; can obtain infinite burning For there are certain things in the fpeculi of the parable cis, which do not cast only through the rays i the fire that gathers burns, fed Sc by the rays of the sun reflected rales; and this radiation to have a cylindrical force in whatever di burning fire and burning fire bolifmo cauftico Archimedes ships in I could burn it with any smell. Let it be you parabolic bus A: hiccophitusSoli re-. he will cry all the rays into the pound D. If so- r! TZi aZ which is close to the pando D, the fire, another tu-thonbus the parabolic ball B, the rays of the contrary fitu8 rior fuperficio incident, in the radiation-P+ O o o o a nem' Jfrtis Magna Liber Lb. MagWPars
iiem parallel E refledtent, fcilicet, eo in the manner in which the ray of the Sun enters the tube A as is clearly evident from the figure attached here, 6e can be easily demonstrated. For gum not particularly in mathematical pun&o D let the sale take place, fed somewhat distant from D, where the rays are found fiercer, and fiercer, and fiery speech, Ikonlfmus ipeculumB, ibid. tem conic adtinobolilm DB, refle- dtet into adtinobolifin cylindrical BE, a fiery prodigy, who radiates fiery rays, when in They want to propagate the greatest peace, du He should not be able to do anything except in the greatest way diftantia, nay, such as in infinite diftantia they can have the power of revenge. And this is it the objection which they object to us Mathematical matters. I agree, Ipecu- don't just throw a parabolic light, led and receive the cylindrical rays as well to reflect, I know revenge is on the line fe, the children are well-known efts fed revenge that cylinder into a larger space let me be the force that I will take vengeance on, because I am going through with the young man. For let them be (as the first fi (Gura Iconifmi teaches the trigelimi) Solis ra gods GHI, incidents in fpeculumparaboli- with, or elliptical NRM: it is certain, I will meet them in pnndto. where to note not only the HVR rays, ex the center of the Sun Fountains, the reason bandam, fed also of others, who with they flow from other parts of it, not much they have less strength than those who ex center; so much so that the intensity of the heat the sea should be from the size of the glass, or lpeculi, which collects them, compared with the size of the space in which it is collected. For example, let the diameter be as good as which Defcartes notes, the diameter of the glass NRM, it becomes four times greater in depth, which is between the points ON, with the help of its rays col- you have a million times as much strength
they are as much as they pass through a flat glass which would in no way distort them. And since the interval between VQjnajus, or it is less, for the reason of the distance, which it is between them, St glass NRM, or fi mile another body forcing the rays there; certain it is that it is not of great importance the diameter of this body, nor particular its shape, nifi i or to the smoke j it can increase; as either from here those lines in infi I concluded that the burning vanity was extremely futile he puffs Moreover, let us smoke a couple of caultic one of which is greater than the other, whatever which he pretends, provided that he is of the kind of figures; greater indeed are the rays of the Sun in greater space ri collects, throws even farther from faith the less, on the other, nevertheless, in Angu The dispute with the parties of this Ipacius had no more strength to have these rays than in the other, in which collects them less, that is, the smallest to gather together so many rays to burn in the space in which they gather them, and the greater ma, which have similar figures in ae such as fpacio, and thus glasses, Ipecula a very little polish to be made, which asce ve they should obtain a protective force and the greatest: whence I conclude, Ipeculum cau- fticum, the diameter of which obtains ioo. match tem diftantise which is between the fire, 8clpecu- lum, you can't do it by any reason, as ex caught rays burn more effectively, or heat, than those who proceed red: b from the Sun. I would like to ask Mathe what kind of thing I hit mates, for this they will write against me, and I will force them to confess tur, conical or cylindrical into a large space hunt, and eat the invalid. Whence again they will be forced to conclude, fpeciilum i oo on foot while geometrical diameter, no ad- get the power to burn miles. And this is what, a little before, of the Cupula San- for Peter, it would be a shame, we conclude; When the rays of the sun rise in parallel rantes, let them be destitute of all power. That It is true that no one knows about geometry. And the catoptrical fan must doubt; no I see why some of us have a cylinder They will sell the sale of so much power. Cef- fent therefore to tell us tales some wild beasts are ignorant, while fe fpe- to pulverize the tail to infinity they are tired But they will say the truth I'm a little girl. or of miles, this elf is effective, as ra let him throw the gods into the farthest and so far an infinite distance. Hugm toys; for from the fphmra fpheculari, the diameter of which it would be miles, the fruit would be restored feet, who does not see the future, as that part because the bow was too dull with the flat surface of the glass close to coincide he gives, and therefore he is profuse in collecting the rays the future becomes inept, and to confti- unfit to protect? What I say about con parabolic cavities, the same with tubes, core give the snow, the bracelets, the parabolic phyphones must be killed For how much they fragmented duller because of the oblique ray the murders of the cauftic rums were broken up they will approach more parallelism, St con- all the diflolution of the union they will gradually lose their power. .So they are already silent at this time many tubes are prepared spherical, elliptical, hyperbolic parallel lilmo cauftico act in enormous differences you Who lenfit 8t experience some he is rich, he is not willing he will see easily. Corollary I Mirror Card to a thousand pages Caufiic TX is now clear, the worst mistake Carda- it is thrown, by which I will kindle a fire for a thousand palls gives I quote his words, And the distrust of man is more unknown let him go If, says he, I will kindle a fire at the millepafius we want to give, we will bring the circle, whose The diameter of this is two thousand pajfus let us assume such a twist as roundness let it not be hidden, a part will be easily fastened to whom for height in term one addi- let us go round a circle with a fixed diameter a part, let us have a portion bet s than when we have refined, the same ex- held at a distance, and the strongest to Thou lightest, the immortal God,
what nonsense he has uttered in these few words We have educated each other. Primblpecu Lurn promises to burn to a thousand fathoms, that to almost improbable to demonftravri mouse Second, a block of degrees commands to be refined; but who nefeit, ciimhu- equal diameter of the fpeculum let him have no power, no power I will make my riches a fool for thinness to be poured into the mass of Ipeculum? In addition in which circle, in which plain, in which mo tori, that immense circle, from which the plant must be restored, will it bear? What can be said more distrustfully? video he wants to be disillusioned in some way; while The engine is ready to speed things up He says something else, so that he does not laugh at the children while he explains what is convincing? Vi therefore, curious reader, tell me what is unworthy of me often from the Authors even not the least tis to be proposed, the truth of which is not will be examined, it is not surprising that there are many more philophophos men in this error to collide with pieties, and to reject errors innumerable creeping fennel into the fcholas To comply with the philosophy of monftra. Corollary II. On the Mirror of Archimedes i TTlncpatet also, Archimedean ratio to thousand, nor to fta- dia, fed in the greatest proximity of the ships Marcellus combuffifle parabolic fpeculo, whatever they say to the HiftoriCi, for whom the first is the portentous exploits of the heroes to win over the minds of the audience, as well to Archimedes as a specimen of art to be commended for his inimitable thirst to bring In addition, the CDM is the same at the time of Archimedes that of all my inventions if the squeegee were turned, nothing would be easier, which art Archimedes invented as if paradoxes in the world, prmfertimdf I am not aware of the days of the arts, re; whence it is fadtnm, as the fame of the name its everywhere pervading the world, growing and you, on this side of things also from Archimedes geftamm would increase the truth of the relationship. True, this burning of the ships I did not snow in the nearby ftation, that is to say Livius thus contiguous to the wall of Acradin he seems to be hinting, while the machines of Archime push against Marcellus prepared to be brought bit words In their tollenone Jupra wall with an eminently iron hand bound in strong chains when the prows are heavy, and the balances are heavy Oooo Meichin4 Archime push he would pull the lead back to the bottom of the ship it floated in the stern, then it was rowed like a ship falling from a wall with a huge the panic of the sailors so undce affixed, that even Ji would go straight back, a little water and would take To whom Plutarch is attributed, who Will ships when issued; they will repent the horns of the antennae, partly with heavy im- you will prefeft the fluff with the balance of the fufle partly with an iron hand, or with a rope for cranes mode i rac Ji rtJtipa. it )j (tXjy. s-tA-iti ytgpnev j cam, he says, they will fuffpendiffient from prora in the stern of the ship, when you dive, or dtas, pree rotated in opposite directions then breaking the bundles, which; they stood out the walls were pierced with huge cloisters cie elifis: nay, sometimes the ship was in fu blime raised by force fu horrible hucil and the wheel was rolled, and the sledgehammer, until the sailors were cast down, and fastened to the wall it would strike empty, or it would fall down. Almost the same as Polybius Archimedes dyxesvoc affruit, so that those who know his words verily, it is easy to con- for he had no other form, than that which the architects of our easy to cut into two parts cet Carchefium is indeed smoked for that very tall tree It was widely planted in the height of the tollene nis, at the tip of which the transfer is done or tenna roftrum cranes lifted here and there, Sc uncuffed in the circle of hell and hell referring to what was brought forth, and indeed in the former on one side he wore oblong chains in form iron; defining the hands, with which certain buffdam chains art Schafterias however many machines were stolen, and they were brought up high, no matter how many at last they were in great abundance, with the help of a heavy fi balance of lead and iron
woe to the great weight, with which as if the giants they were balanced internally, etc lent Syracuse, they were exasperated. It matters this machine machine, by which the waters e They would like to draw out the wells. Castle here Polybius uses it, however Lud becomes a fuprema part of evil, because they stand out the wall marks the part of the wall, when yet both pterna and trachylus are two evils the parts were hidden near the walls. Nor for at the end I will fortify the evil, even the beams, and The whole army rested on the most robust goats na, and a huge antenna could be fuftiner. Further VOICE where is Polybius he defines the ropes, and the pulleys, and finally organs, which include both the antenna and the hands iron, was either lowered, or loosened, either it was intended, or it was remitted while the work and intention of the artist: art He also represents the whole of his work. ftdpen you give iftyufmodi dimerlion ships, at friction was directed to the nearest rocks. But concerning them see Iconifm. o. From which it is very clear to all, so-ln the ships of Marcellus Syracuse expu the Acradians almost fell to the walls fuifle: for ACradina, just as I examined the smoke with great care, Mirabella in Ichnographia fua luculente teaches, in that place where Archimedes ships Marcellus' cannons were so much in the war His fame is afflicted, and the sea is allured on every side; Marcellus' ship in this place ftetiffe, ma the fates of Archimedes offer while you wish to take away the ships, use them a little It has been said before; grasp with an iron hand fas, futtradtafque was gliding to the ground, il- He was breaking the bones for a minute with everyone. But the machine was taught to be done for no reason He was able to use those who they have even the slightest knowledge of mechanics it is well known, the snow of the warlike squires In those times we would like to grant that no one can easily conce the fans of the Hiftoric mind give For the ships to be apprehended neceffiarib Tollenon's arm only In fact, he owed how much there was between the ships the distance between the wall and Acradina. From that Archimedes then built the ships in that place you could light the rias if you were hollow culis, at an interval of autadfum- fflum common paffus, verifiably it is by no means beyond that for reasons in the preceding ones All these things here it was decided to deduce from the foundations of ipfi, so that this false belief of the people of the ani they think that I will abolish the infested with each one Archimedes' ships in the middle igniting the embers of the floating sea gif But one who is ignorant of catoptrics there is one who does not see this in the ships of the mob to the libations and fiudtuants improbable The truth that is revealed in every color is the truth he triumphs, I show the matter so. Adcom the Catoptrician buftion through the hollow, and parabolic fecuia three required necefi faries, of which any failing since it is also impossible to produce an effect. The first thing is that both the incinerator and the strong and immovable fintftatu The second is to compete tiafint between combuftivum, 8c combufti-uftimem bile, that is, as if there was a difference between the phlegm a caufticum, and the thing to be dyed will not be farin. becomes greater, not less, fed to focus because, that is, I will paint the matter with the union of the rays he will reach a certain point. Thirdly, as material is made suitable by conceiving fire. All of them hafce conditions in the burning of ships reported by Polybius to have died, so oftendo Pri Attdgid sno ships in the deep sea by no means so fir-j the sea-cock, that they may not wave a little, j that fool will be able to kill, who never he had knowledge of maritime affairs; but the fluctuation is mainly Catoptricse let him be the enemy of vengeance; ctuation effect of revenge due to the ship He was a poor poor man. Secondly, nor could reason have any effect so that the ship does not drift away from Ipeculus; for he had to the ship is thus a cautious cone of Archimedes to be adapted and commensurate, as fo cus, this vertex would outline the ship; but that this should be done, either of them, the ship in than, or a little, be the distance more therefore it was long, he hastened; I would like to take it back mediocrity has never been short-lived
had to dye But the famous elt, Archi Do not spill the medicine outside the walls, and do not be it will fly, because of the greatest obstacles, and I could not escape the dangers, nor the ship it is also verifiable on the other hand; snow we would like to say, the ships are empty at that time, so exact, precisely rested di- get the ftant, which is practically free we are committed; all with this reason We pollute the prodigious effects. Cer you, who have examined this reason more closely he will be forced to relieve the Hiftorians In this part of the faith I was not favored by any reason pull for be in even the smallest need, You will be showered with vengeance in the cauldron of the hearth determination and fixation as well as fpecu s how much care would be needed, and how much to meet someone in such enormous need to produce efleCtuin, to work hard do we know Given, however, I will not sail the ship at that time the heat had a great deal of importance I will stop; I say, nevertheless, the rays in such a way diftantia difgregatof the weak, scarcely for any force to the said effect to be led In addition to this, every-' the condition of the bus's fuel, namely the pitch of the ship illita, neither of which from Catoptrica ftion is apt to conceive a flame. What yet the snow goes, we will attend to the regulations; pitch to the avenger Ipeculo indeed melts, led by no means it will go into flame; let's say snow fu fuel, and other combustibles, and material suitable for walking flames the future; which is also made free of charge. Someone by what reason, then, shall we combine the matter tttfuVCtjUiXV faCti femper we will discover. Don't therefore let all the faith of the past perish, and not so the knowledge of the insignificant mysteries, let's see the mofo Artisan eripuiffe, ad mini it must be said, not in the middle of the sea, led to the coast of Acradina smothering them, reddening them with catoptric fire Catoptric
coward I wonder here some Matnema- ralfa nUc- ticos come to him boldly, as five from Ca- Toptrices ignorance, five to Mathefeos to whom Archimedes should emphasize the importance of prasftantia at some of the rivers, thousands of ships burned they are not ashamed to say, and so much so stumbling upon the truth, with ink making, lying, and commenting aSujJATOig to seek the patronage of the book. Who na ture, and affection of the Ipecui, Jucifi- that he had more penitent reflections then, it is different from this prodigious adfio- lest he should judge, I will confess myself candidly there, with no human ingenuity make it concave or parabolic, that at three miles a cautious force should be exercised eat Therefore he will fly hither and thither in a false way from a small marriage in the greatest poverty, not I will say in the infinite burning preconceptions Opinion: Mathematicians are also Norfdeple with the burdens of fe jad. itent, how to demonstrate va let them lean, ne fe, and the noblest art one of the fans and the fun of men expo nant I would not deny, however, that Some parabolic ass inftar of someone it would become a mountain, it was destroyed, juxta caufticum conum in propcrtionata di He would like to have a chance. But who is so wonderful to us? will it make the bulk of the fire? I lane, to ad I would reach some truth of this matter I lay down with every fury, as if it were a piece of paper I would find the parabolic, which to io. or He would prepare a kindling for fire: whence Ger they will travel through Mania, Gaul, and Italy So, I met with the most impressive artists to make something if they had a wife, they would but nowhere fe offered such as I was looking for. Grinber- gerus nofter had finished one at or the fruit A Ghetal also cou- of the ftrudi fpeculi, which I here in the gazophy Barberino was caught, I risked it, fed to that depth, to which it was before I had not heard of it, but did not find it. He met at last here Inliffnis Mechanicus Manfredus Sep- sPecHlm such, the friend of Lingularis, and the most famous the skin Medici Septalius was not a degenerate son; those who are burning He made a piece of glass with a diameter of y. of palms, which in iy. I'm a little bit of a force he would exercise; of whom Chap- more in a certain epiphtola. I, the priest of Burgundy, bring me below diolan living at Illuftres very DD.
Septals, I make faith, and atteflor fpeculum Illufiris very much D. Manfredi Septalce ex made of metal, by the reflection of the rays Solarium in the shape of the meeting fire and to pass on the object from the matter to the difficulty without ten pafifus, and that in the ififa cone partegraci liori, Jive point, h fifteenth to de the top of the fence was indifferently raised. Whose thing I made an experiment with the pnefat D. M anfredo in bring ass abjetino, who from me to movement prtedid on the part of the reflected rays of the gra ciliario, this ejl from the fifteenth to the tenth then the paffum diflantice from ipfo 'fpeculo, fire He conceived of an easy business, so that the tree he would burn, and he would be tied to a burning coal. In whose faith this tejlimion is proper on the fifteenth day of Jubfcripf, with a hand of wine Jebruary in the year f. I lodmes (hajfiflm Priest. All these things are true of the fathers of our men many things; a revengeful trial of learning Difficulty in preparing fpcculopa- rabolico henifmus xxx. the prefects are teftati, in a certain epiphto- It was given to the second P. John Rbo in these words. Lo fpeccbio e di diameter once fiorentine, che fanno delle nojire, cioe im braccio, e cjiiattr' once noffirali e braccia pajfa fieo in conformity with Lydia, e I will not make a big box of any kind. Coffe certainly, che mi fa, fiupire: do not revolt against the object, ne anche alii pafii' epoffo teflificare, co me hb fatto lefperienzg conlepropr e mani, applying unpertgp di tavola, e fatta brugia- come on, eat live coal. E ben true, che lo [pecchio piu piccolo che arde in lontanaivzg di braccia opera in manco di iii Ave Ma- ria, dove quello, che arriva dalle p. fino al ie working more slowly, bifogna afpet- tare ungran Miferere From which it is clear, how many biliits burn fpecula, how many cones ufto- the river was longer; and so much more effectively how much shorter It is also clear that the declining parallelism, all fi- mul power to lose. Finally, I made a parabolic ipfe I took care of it from an expert artist. form that with which care could be made, from steel! we broke down; we finally find the fed ma, , or at least worn out, fpeculumjam in fuperficiem fphaerica aegeneraflej We have tried it with various kinds of metals bus, iedfruftra: for femper something we have found a rich man, of whom others I also remember the famous artists, so much so The work is difficult and full of dangers parabolic branch re; a diamond parable would be needed, ad to produce a reliable feed. A lot I saw these small things, called parabolic, fed which, however, recalled to the Lydian stone They were found purely spherical. Of which pa but hardly a human parabolic mirror the pofle to be made of two pieces, which is more than pafls to exercise effective force. And, as Archie medi, something more surprising than the rest let us give, we said yew, and here creep we fear, his small ships to the coast of Acra- days the many difficulties of pafluum fpacio the vision of others, the cone of caution I can reach you. true as all things what has been learned up to now about the caustic fpeculis are, the only fynopfi (see here Iconifm we wished to present, where the form you see parabolas, ellipses circles through lit- ras A. BC represented; you see there in A, B, C, E, V, S, of the incident rays Union; you see Archimedes' mechanism then, quickly the conical tube D, in com used in shipwrecks, diftance SD ship from the place of fpeculi; you see finally E V, both of the execution of the revenge, and of the re- r#m no to contend with. clearly presented, let us now proceed to other things,
You make yourself safe with mirrors, plain fp yesterday R There has long been a controversy among the catoptrb It was a cos, whether it was a small plane of caution Do you want to be introduced? Certainly Zetzes Procli ma the folding of the fpeculis indicates The matter therefore for some pfopopitionf let's highlight the bus. Profit I. If small flat polygons are made that the bricks were made in the shape of a pyramid the more they burn the more effectually
they clung to their sides; ufiio auterA in ipffi the axis of the pyramid will touch the polyhedron. oit fpeculum A, B, C, F, in three pyramids the form of the gona, whose axis D, F. Dico il The game returns to the sun at the port by turning the trine only the radiation in E, the weight axis the sides CB, BA, AC, will unite the reflex. For since the pyramids of the pyramids ABC, ad The sun will be red, it will be the main sun ray dius neceffarib by lib. Vitellius incident with the axis of the pyramid DF: therefore ra The gods of the Sun will be evenly divided from the sides. When, moreover, by Artis noftrae An acia- The definition of phtics is the angle of the cut equal to the angle of reflection, the rays of the Sun in the sides are evenly spaced from the main point The teeth will be equal to the reflection of the snake los: therefore they merge into one pundurn s fed this is not, the snow on the E axis DF which I thus prove; it is not done by being impaled you J jirtis magfU Book IX. Mdfiid Part III E; therefore it becomes in S, and therefore in the matter of angles bending and incident will be such, and unworthy which it implies: no, then, niii converges on the axis, which was demonftran- while Qiidd indeed pyramidal Ipeculum a polygon, not a columnar polygon afiumamns, it is the cause of the rays Solarium, which ikut interior fpeculi co not pol they go, so they don't need any rays bent Corollary I TTIncpatet, let the light be corrifted it will be reflexive, that is, in D, with the ass where in D, conftituto third le vi would give (Corollary X This also is clear, the tetragon of Ipe- I-'cu! nm pyramidal Sun straight polished four reflection planes in the e-axis terminating the two, of special vengeance qu, a: dam like a woman to contain the rays. Thus the pentagon y hexagon hepta- gonum unites the adtinobolifmos in the axis. Yes Ipeculum iooo. sided with The only object of a thousand reflections he would unite the rays in an axis, and so on to infinity; so how many sides fpe so much the greater the revenge inditia, it becomes to be provided, until it is in the circle he escaped, in which he was the most perfidious of all jytvcrtC leu nltio will be completed: For just like this A triangle is the figure of all polygons the first of the rare, thus of all polygons the last is the circle; whence the rebtc circle The mathematician is described as an elf figure po- A circle of infinite sides. In equal measure felygoms fe have bodies that consist of two figures they will be written infinitely; for it is cut by pyramids the first of the bodies, so the last cone elt in the figure of the finite triangular sides. Whence it is gathered, no fpe- tail level and artistically difpofitum effedtum invigorating revenge to produce a wolf, when to revenge by innumerable neceffiirib to make a beast the biles of the rays must run together; that in the hole has its place in circular hollows, not in concave polygons, which for la three times the number of rays reflected on the axis It has been demonstrated to unite a little before. Here but it was the device of Procli fpe- crushed by the plains, of which Zonaras it will be said below. Profit II. A fuperficia of one small fpheeric xi but by the composition of many things that will soon be done. Whereas, as in the preceding fum is the line of reflection dem pundti from different pundtis ejufdem Ipeculi are not convex They run together: therefore neither do the rays bloom, or others fall into the fraud of this Ipeculi tes, in any ever pundto polish con to run, the led diffusor inippomedio: therefore it cannot be done by any reason in fpe- Revenge with a convex ass: fed fi would become a polygon whether from countless hemicides fpeculari- bus compofitum: I say it returned to the Sun op-. all the reflected rays of the sun; not lecus TofiCxa and we have spoken of the small plains; in the axis of one -ftuiaur tower, as from the following pentagonal shape it is clear, in which hemicycle fpecular lunt ABC DE, all such: this therefore be the object of the sun, so that the sun is the prince the cephalic radius coincides with the axis, confti- tuatur: I mean the rays of the Sun in which he incident micycles ABCDE, pundta of the glasses reflected in the pundtum F, the axis
there he will go united. Demonstrative speech it is the same as in the previous expulsion. But with the hujulmodi Ipecula by the only ones so many The rays act, but they are not very effective to carry out the combustion, imb more dif of difficulty, which benefits they bring: to them at last I bowed down to the hollow of the glasses rum, which in the preceding fuse defcri- first of all, turn to us to clarify the situation we are for The problem. I. Confuse the alembic with that art, as the leaves with the greater help of the fathers in the di- by jltllando he obtains the efficacy of fire strong In the previous records of the lens cry- It's Italian cuisine here. Convex lens lentilfime kindles the fire, nay, faster, ve- hementiufque, how hollow fpecu- light, so much so that it becomes certain to me that it is not fire only wood, and other things, inflame metque, fed melted the lead. The laws of this also boil the cryftalljna ball. If, therefore, the work is done with the strongest fire, it will be done I beat the phasic uterus from the ground, or lead, or glass, around which they are applied or len tes or balls cryftalliuas, so that the Sun in each that time of day it will irradiate the entire belly of the alembic, vi you will have to eat a wonderful meal: for the whole day the stomach of the alembic will be so powerfully warmed, as heat to any oil, and fifth he is distrustful of being taken out. If anyone but to the greater efficiency of things ret, he through a conch shell, and a bowl he will now complete what has been written in the previous ones, in the line of vengeance of both parties alembics of glass poured in order. Problem To conclude Jfctacbina, to date every hour he kindles the fire on the altar, can he kindles the fire, and makes a fon with a purse let him make him who extinguishes the burning fire. Iconifmi tcomfmus 'pRhno prepare a horizontal circle xxx i GMB, foot luo intruded, to whom Strange machine chin in pundis DA, another semicircle DMA. so you apply, as if the fourth quarter MB, He can be lifted up and lowered down MG the meridian quadrant, in which gra They are described as the sun's declination: ver- and the half-circle of the DMA nodal applicable to any region bring it back, and I would have the engine destroyed. Therefore to this equinoctial hemicircle fphasras, or cryftalline balls in punds You bring the hours in such a way as pundahora let them refponde the rum ipfi in the center of the balls, lin guls verd bowls paper lubtili so obdu ces, so that now you can cover and now you can uncover. Let the circles also be made in that proportion glass balls, as a place of revenge in the center of the di- let him perfidiously retaliate against the pain of the circles. And all the fics shall be raised when they have been duly finished Asquinodial circle verfatilisad degree declination, which at the same time Sol occupies, and with it to the south quadrant Fedoptic magic. tem, together with fpecillis you were firffiato, fphar- ra is exposed magnetically before fitting Then I put the fuel in the center and the threads Sulphurated candles are applied, covered there's a small piece of paper, that's all the hour at which you wish to present a piece, re carries and it shall be as the sun set at a given hour reaches, focus balls in the center combustible material to be ignited in he will stir up the flame, and the sulphurous threads also candles were to be lit: and there I heard a strange thing let all things happen at the appointed hour it was a long time ago. If, indeed, a glass bowl in the center also you could have full water, air enclosed, rarefaction, water by ca blow out the flame it will tingle. Now let the glass be made of this art. With a glass ball X, in the bottom of each side there is another canal XA, I entered the lip dus, and close the hole of group X in this way around the canal, so that no air it is rare, and the bowl will be ugly: the hearth for the balls striking the ball X, air whence it is rarefied, add water to the same group the third part is inc ita through the canal He will drive the ax; to these, however, through the opening of the lips na deorfum lapla flame fubjedien esi it will tingle. With the first hat fint, qua rum cone revenge all in the center of the term they spin; The operation will be done in a few hours let them put the fire in the center of the tree. Yes what word does not want to cover the matter with so many hairs, that is The only Crypthalline ball I gave was the operation
he will be able to instill it easily, that is to say, ia pound hour: date: ball centrally con- he had died First, be someone who is not in the center I gave the led outside that operation if he wills, let him lead from X to the center of the circle DMA, through the foci of the revengeful circle of balls concentric light, and matter in it let him lay down the clay for hours tatam, and will have the same effed; the demonstration of all of which depends from Probius of the Cauftic Clock, where many other curiosities about the machi of Hujulmodi you will find the nation. Corollary. It is also clear from these, by what reason A clock can be made, which you mold ris should present the source, according to the number ho let the ras bring down the brooks clay pots a little before propofi- the number of the channels according to the number of hours You will lean on the confection. PPP Clock hydraulic when I wonder when stfijiljg Jtrtis Magna Liber MagjaHars Problem To crush an artificial lamp, cjua in remote dijlantia Jcripta should present the legend. give the shape of a cylinder whose base is AB a concave glass, which is a parabola As far as possible, it will be worn and erected. let the lefcopii exhibit the infpedes in no business. Remote ver6 looking at the flame, huge they will surely extinguish the fire; they will increase light, fi the inner sides of the cylinder from ful They have been elaborated in the ellipfin for a long time. But the discovery was announced by a figure propped up by fate it is raging E handle, Dfeneftra, C in- he draws a chimney. Problem De Lucerna Magica feu Ibauma turgee conjhuftione. Although in the art of Magna Lucis um brae folio of Lucerne we have mentioned fol. manner through the hair of the femurs into the obfucurum with the transmissible, together with the color to paint them tucerm Within the hearth of this fpeculiar F must be applied: Catnip. the flame of the candle; this profuse lingular theory from others For it will shine with such a useless splendor that! to be adorned with major discoveries but it happens that many of us are new to the matter Alledti add to it the spirit of cultivating it, fcribing those inventions at Lucerne, fol. be sure Among whom Thomas was the first in to be recorded by us, for the better Walgenftenius the Dane, of not the least note, brought back the form, which he greatly desired The mathematician, who, recalling my de- learned Mdgia Catoptrka. he said, so that, therefore, already in Rome, in the pen in which the fiduciaries of things have been recorded, re- it becomes popular. But there is no other between it And they will separate Lucerne from us such as that of several images fpecies in a dark room called Wal- Genftenius stumbles upon fate neatly and politely, nor wonder with the smoke of the fpedfans tion We in the College of noftro in obfucuro room, We would like to present it with stupidity. But the matter came to pass live the most worthy, with his help, or inte gras fcenas fatyricas, Tragicas theatricas it may be permitted to present the daughters in order to the living. But the artifice of Catoptricus, which nosfol. Artis Magna Lucis um we have taught, it does not differ from this novel Lantern, snow that she through mobile Lu
I see, we are under the glass with the rays of the leaves, on our shoulders. trusting in the immovability of one's interior the wall of a house or a room, with colors to We present alive all those things which by Lu they love to show off their mobile phone; how you want also in the same place the manner at the end of fo lis rays, through a concave fpeculum or len I teach you how to represent things transparently mouse All these things are further advanced here fnm, as Lebtori, whence this mysterious novel Lanterns (I don't deserve Magic Thaumaturgam, from the wondrous things which at last in a dark room or intempeftse no diis filentio reprtefen- we thought to call it the origin) they have drawn To these ancestors I did not know reflates, to explain the fabric of it in a few words A. B. C. D. then in stoves, as Lucerne through il he let out a little smoke. The light na verd K is placed in the middle or attached with a thread iron or steel support M b region fo
branch H, within which the palmar tube is committed, in the tubi verb at the beginning of I. len ticular glass is better marked in the hole, in fact, at the end of the tube H glass a well-developed plane is assumed, in what watery and transparent colors? what you will be painted; enter this padfo room in a white light wall the lamps passing through the lenticular glass at the bottom gin in a flat H glass (quse inverted fit is placed in the glass) redfam on the wall he will display a larger one, for everyone with vivid colors, marked P ppp mem. mdgrut Book X Magia Part III men, the light of the lantern: the intense flame of the to drink that to be done, we fpeculum Chaly- put the hollow S in front of the flame mouse, for this is a wonderful light in my mind while it is intended. These, all in a few words take care Note the tube at this point turn the light either inside or outside, through hence he is fed with this judgment of the good prodigal they become to be left. It reflects the method of multiplying to explain the tears; within the aflerculos in Draw a parallelogram well trum fipecular the most polished, of such breadth as the fora occupy men xq: how many images does this glass have? and which you wish to color transparent and watery be depicted as parallelograms mo MN is to be seen. For this within the fififu- ras H. P. N. R. inferred from image to the image of the hole H fiubmotum dif he will display the bearing pictures on the wall. One Of course, if you have or hr two parallelograms, one of which and that he refers to different images, di with their help do whatever you will through them to be shown in the obfucated room. But this fat clearly polished effecti- mo, why nothing is blowing, I am snowing like a confectionary from diditi s shining with a bright figure equal We will explain three times. This prefaces things with great surprise so that it does not affect the infantry, put it on the lamp tur in the feparated chamber ABCD, tube the game is brought to the wall BD loH, in that way as we have said, for then in the attached cube butt BEDF on the opposite wall G fimulacra as many parallelograms were inferred they run, happy, happy, horrible and fearful give it, and to those who look at it, you are also unaware of it prodigious together with the imaginations fer i p you they will appear as drawn on the glass. But all this from the prefect figure better you will understand, perhaps I will not in more words, I will explain. Qjare to other things. Problem V. Problem VI.
Magu Qdtoptricd. Of Smicrofcopio Paraftaticus, Whereupon Lucerne came forward We have spoken about the display of things in the form of adornment that in the same way by fmicrofcopium this I will divide the whole machine into parts we will explain in a few words, e5 that or from ip- fa difpofition of the parts of the whole fabric ra This is easily done by Ledore. AB refers to the front part, EE? afterwards the matter with the opening. GH, outer con- put out the fat, which you put in the glass bet, KL, the interior of the brakes tion Let the first two circles be made from li I have worked out a leafy lathe, which I so envy cem are committed, as the axis of the cent the trawl can be conveniently turned around, to use appears in Figure E. F. Then the circle in the inner part of KL two circles will be drawn the ass was divided into parts; willingly on the plane in which I will give a small piece of such size as it is is the capacity of the inner circle, so that com to be fixed within the concavity of KL ii. When this is done, they are painted on the glass plain water color transparent image lest, whatever you may ultimately wish, be near the smell of the parts at the bottom of the circle is already delicious to use the neat difpofition in figure KL it appears, you will have 8t which admachine f let all things be done; the tube is already broken CV, figures AB. here the notes are slowly getting better it becomes intruded, fub in that proportion, as per I took pictures of it at the bottom of KL are, beautiful and how diftindifme let them be ready That's where you get it, then tube Smicrofcopii CV juxta fitum in The figure is drawn with that care, as the eye of O transfpiciens the first image it reaches, because of the refraction of the lens a dior will appear; then move forward D turn to another image, and see
they will be in order through the tube all that diftindifime exprefla I admit this I would like to present the Sunday papfion, as shown in figure KL. Equal to this practice three times any hiftoria by parts in From the wool of the glass, I first cut off the ex- it will be allowed Innumerable in this place about hu the right of Smicrofcopii ufu to say poffern, ad The destruction of the prince was wondrously profitable ture Ledor hit me out of your hand he will perceive the tension easily. I will make a machine out of plain glass to a hundred feet, and beyond burning, Faith fig. Iconifmi Therefore, I assume first, fpeculum pla whether or not to reflect a greater light on some plane opposite to it, quantd that was greater; so pedal fpeculum in a light pedal near the wall, in the remote at a hundred feet a light as great as It is a quarter of a foot, try to throw it I found her. Supposed to be fertile, in finite rays from the lingulis fpeculi pundi j reflected, to rely on this light. If so that another piece of plain paper should be made in this way as the reflected light of the former mirror reflected the light it fits: I mean that double 8c light, ca the network will increase; fi third lpe- the tail is so stiff as to reflect the light, du folded a little before the light corresponds: I say 8c the light and heat of the triple iri, and fic in proceeding infinitely. Supposedly tib, light and heat with the reflection of the straps, he repelled one of the Ipacius I am for the multitude of multitudes of multitudes dear, how quickly we stumble upon lib. of Adinobolinis par. fol. I am certain of this matter in five fpeculi from the smoke of the smoke: and indeed the first light It had a different heat when it was exposed to light; double light a noticeable increase in heat he was already frowning; triple the heat of the fire He preferred to quadruple the heat as when it was still tolerable fivefold almost intolerable: whence certb, undoubtedly concluded by multiplying flat glasses, and they are arranged so that all things reflect the light of the Sun into one force peace, the future, so that not only then a greater revenge, qukmquseli-tricumm bet uftoria parabolic, hyperbolic, elliptic tica prasftent, fed Sc in multb majus Ipa let them shine a radiant light; what I am in five steps to Ipa I will try a hundred 8c more feet Tia taught. But let it be done, pofle to make difpofita parabolic uftoris, so oftendo: Uftoria fpecula parabolica li you only put them together in one piece they complete the addition. Mirrors verb flat adinobolifmis, five intact bright fuper- fictions, each of which has an infinite number of ra he does these things, they confound him. according to d6, fpecula parabola, when ad grand project the space too obliquely ceut, and descend almost into parallelism rent, to destroy all power of burning; nor for this, or from the only pious no, or the heat of the Sun, as in the ancient Artis J&tagnx Book X. M'aia ars III.
Fjan iconism We have handed over the fuse to the teeth, they are different. In the pla All these things are multiplied by the green snow the trains cleave s for the tongue in u whether pundtum dire5ta, while instead of radio They do not cast light on bright surfaces such is the weakness of the lit rays, no doubt they polish to give greater effect. Yes who, then, is a thousand, for example, Ipeculaita spread out, so as to bring everything into one point reiledterent (for this should be done in Art Mdgu Catoptricd. Anacamptica has been declared, where ever in whatever place he was confined, the light of the Sun through a small plane in any pun- We do not teach to shoot a given day there is no doubt that there is such a large number of fuperficiers the conftipation of cider would cost the same, and much more efficient than parabolic radio rum brewing near the fire. As well as hence the engine of Proclus, by which the ships Zonaras refers to the Byzantines as allies. 'mirror ftZtqua-' as long as I believe at all. For they are small have been, plane ABCDE, Sun G, wall F, as it were spread like the sun's rays from the tongues Culi reflexi coeant in piindto F: Certum it is jo-itur, and experience is gnawing, as lu cem, so that St heat is forced into F,
the elf is twice as big. St. intenfiorem, how the light, the heat, with a single fpeculi bent, so that in F the hand barely fmn can be strengthened by heat. If, therefore, not that only a small amount of money is needed, why not cen then, or a thousand fpecies with this genius thread It is certain that the heat is so intense in fact, so that everything can burn, St into ashes to reduce j when the focus here becomes greater, lu more tender than in any other preparation the law fpeculis I am asking here under pressure Let the Mathematicians prove this matter Ment fumraa diligence lufcipiant, St they will find that which is also infinua- force, no other catapult mechanism when efTe, that 8t greater, in burning let him obtain the power of St in a greater degree. Problem VII. To conjlrue the suture, that at the rising of the Sun, In the hours spent by the sun cujfa will stir up the prodigious fonurn. video Iconifmi
From now on, it will be transferred to Me chanica noftraHieroglyphica, why at this point the fabric of the fabric is only passing by Let us write in a few words, so that nothing of rich things in this great Art let us be seen as omifile. Let there be some pieces of lead or something else with any metal wood of the letters ABCDEF, as figure teaches, four spans of lon of the gitudin; latitude height pal- my stat of one In this cifta part of BEFL, dia- jkemnonict phragmateELB is resolved, by which imriosfmoi jlon bent duCatur. Fluic vafi fta- rad-os thy Memnonia in that habit, St litu, which fi- eating guraMP refers to being imposed. Furthermore, from hu right side cie three are dedicated to lyphones; of whom the mouse is the body of the bird Z, and the other is the bottle MN report Siphon becomes the third OP, which through the body should be drawn into the mouth, St. the eyes. Vessel verb ADLE, luo business platifination that is intruded, whose foot is infused the wretch is brought down into the living water; vessel or tem is so shut up on every side, that I cannot indeed the mother of air is able to exhale, in va two hemifphasria G on the left side, H, they are imposed, which is hollow, with the concave vafs ABKL are continuous. To these done properly, so you will animate the engine; Ma the china was first filled to a third part humor, you will explain Solfiquse soon where the rays fenferit, in hemiffhseries G, H illapfos, will greatly rarefy the interior air, here he will press the water when he has finished prelfa, when it is not poffed from elsewhere, by E ly- he will put the bent phone into the vessel N, and there the latent air is lit by force through B, N, he will expel the lyphones, and in Z quiderri fowls fible, in M Ionus animalis, i But St will move his disgusted eyes, ad apt to be threatened, industriously borne; each tongue sticking out of the mouth He gave me a wonderful fpeftaculum. Porrb Sole the retreating air in the farewell AB condensed when require a smaller place, in aid of no I brought a vessel of water by a relative it will fit, which in the place of retreating tuat: water verb vafis N, by epiphtomiuni L emptied, he will prepare a new Ipedtacula. If therefore the prodigious Io would you like to present it in a few hours: Machi na in the center X figures n. it will be applied tit either G or H, hemifphacrium X let it rest in the center, and the Sun the balls crossing the rare Cryptallins in a few hours, to the burning hearth I luo G, or H, in moinentd it will warm, than the heating of NecelTarius also the intent of the phonatory was to break the curse they will gather Sole verb h globulo cryftal-: the linen receding, and withering from the heat, cftus also the members will cdTab, until The sun has illuminated another ball; fic He will die twelve times a day, as St schedule announcer; the smoke of the audience he will act with surprise; and this will be eternal light I will come to this for what reason a machine close to the human voice, in we can tell, it will be more clearly explained elsewhere i whence, at what rate, in the light of the sun, this machine I wish to encourage you, but I will only mention it here by the way let him do it. CHAPTER II. Of the plane mirror of the polydix, fpeacmmque TMultipl'icatione. ORIMO Ipeculi let's do it, then in order of the rest fpeciilbrum both concave and con vexorum, and from heretofore composed puffy tcdnifmus XXXII Wonderful for
two pleasures rum fpee you strap pla ours The great book of art LC. Magid fiars III. Paraftafis I A plane mirror multiplication a funt fpecie- rum of one thing. video i Some wonders, and no one knows what I will do the property of the observant shines in two you push the small pieces together so as to inftar the books are closed, and long to be opened; are placed that in any plane, in which the femicircu- you have registered the light in the steps. Yes for a pound in which he commits sins they are struck, in the center of the semicircle, so that both sides of the fpeculiar in diameter, only the image of the object will be seen, appa- and they shall return two things, one out of the bread True, the other enters, fantastic: fi verb Ipe You would be able to do so, as the splitting of the sides step intercept, you will see reiinjra polish the sides of the image twice, that is, together with you will see the true image the third time. Whose subject matter This is because the angle of reflection, Stinci- dentias is as great as the angle in received by k sides, viz. grad. when he becomes obtuse, there is no double image he may not be able to do so, as in Propof. V. fol. it is oftenlum. If the verb fpecula interce they make an angle of degrees, you will see in divide the circle into four parts in which as many prostitutes have lusted after the thing They will appear, three fantastic ones, and one the truth for when the reflection takes place at the corners redos, both sides reflecting the form he will find two other forms within fe, whence finally for the multiplication of the sides the forms will be multiplied, which in the refle xion of the sides will boil the norm, as in Professor V. fol. we stumble. Porrb fi The sides of the glasses intersected the corner degrees, you will see in the horizontal plane to form a treacherous, and regular penta- one in which as many forms appear unt. Also, be a hundred steps between them round the corner, you'll see a whole hexagon and the forms, of course five ftics, one truth. Yes, if it is a dream throat intercepted degree with com- it will look like a treacherous heptagon, with the whole that of the matter placed within the fpeculi of the forms; not fecus angle fpeculorum gra he will give two odogons; give degrees bit of enneagon; degrees of ten whether the angle of the degrees when he digs of the decagon, and finally the angle he will report the degrees of the dodecagon with the whole then into forms, and make it ad infinitum; so that women by so many sides the future becomes a polygon anacampicum, and as many forms, as many polygons as the sides of the glasses he intercepts the division, having had sides: quo all the reasons depend on Pro pof V. proceeding Diftindion. Paraftafis II. To present the dragon ejuou with two fpeculis I like the chapters, each one of which Ian it will burn video Iconifmi TN in the center of the circle said in the previous passage that it must be confirmed problem, suppose the figure of the dragon is eo artifice, to make fire; that will be easy a channel led through the body of the dragon fill the mouth with wet gunpowder and when it is outside the lower bottom, it emerges. At this rate two fpeculi are made to an the throats are returned, and soon four dragons lift up If verb degree angle fe cerint, confederated with five heads ap but it will be equal to the angle of two degrees fpecula was crushed, behold the dragon's fex ca the pita will appear from any log, everything the power of fire: the greater the number of heads they will be multiplied, the more small they are you will contract: and look at the pedants tur, while they do not see the movement of the eye, re however, the multiplication of heads they do not make Corollary I Candelabrum polylychnmm fig, is clear, by what reason the candlesticks
they are repronounced; be indeed one bra from the center of the commission The rum was brought out, and the candle was brought in to be lit For an angle of lychnium fub odolychnium fub on the steps of the pentalychnium the candelabrum of the sudden with no less pleasure than wonder you will not see; with which the altarpiece was poured ris, the waftiest Ecclefia full of candlesticks it will be seen and it will be a little bit the larger the engine was. Porrb fpedacula di greater wonder you will present, let there be four tables in
ftar books, fe opening, Sc closing, as fig. has, each of which ex each side is woven with a small piece, which is men in the center of the horizontal orb, so ver tebris coagmentata fint, as figuti in prae we taught in retreat, the corners were unconfined pollinate In this it will be seen not with the end of pleasure, as much as fpecies matter rum grows in one part, only in al let the earth fail: so that the fubtradion, Express the arithmetical addition they remain Man Po- high school new ohfcr leave min proportion emacampti yes to ari thematic Gijht [cattle laris inVtl ia Burghe- become Rome Catoptric magic. Ty. Corollary Polycephalus stands. Hence, become a man of any number of heads if you would like to present it, you will be able to do so at the same time to preserve the induftria: Sc fic of the innumerable presenting it to others, as if the bridegroom had left it who Paraftafis III. If the fpecula spread in the prism of the ifopleurum it will be multiplied in proportion to its fruitfulness nem, which has the root to the cube. IF fpecula are formed into prisms as many I like the sides, it will be a form to be many plication, figuti i. to the cube of the sides polygons What things are new to use, 8c a ne mine, which I have noted, so far it was first brought to light here, as Le- Let the curious see nature in all things refpe things to multiple proportions the whistle And so he was the priest of Iphopleur form at the bottom of the pot ties will be multiplied, which number is cubed it is ternary. Thus the great black grouse he will record the objections of the girdle four times: the priest ma pentapleurum y. fic about the camp. All of which I would here more easily demonstrate, I have remade those Arti noftra combinatori problem for there the catoptrics of proportion multiplication will be treated from above, where many problems from Algebra, about a multiple reflection, which indeed is mine I never knew any mathematicians, either come to mind, trust us to the future we give Paraftafis IV. 'Theatrum Catoptricmn, PoljdtBicum conflruere, in which wherever you wish to to be presented as a model of nature. Vi from fig. Iconifini It is characteristic of the plains I will make an image of the matter, as soon as possible dkfturus fum dilpofitione mirum in mo while multiplying; the demonstration of tion when brought up in the preceding mouse, already the same to various and delightful ones We will try to apply it. He is here in Rome in the Villa Burghefia outside the Porta Pincia for some of the Ipecular ciftas, which are wonderful He presents the phantoms of things, already golden in a long row of trees, just cities with houses paiatiifqueinftru&iffimas; the most populous fairs are a little hungry; Two The library also provided a large amount of books. the most difficult, and the most diverse The times are so full of joy. so that even if the catoptrices are more or less to the eyes of the inexperienced, the fallacy of the preparations cia ipfa becomes impoiuiffe vifii. Many, too I fantafi this from the ruder Catoptricus mate illufi, while they are not able to catch it with their eyes of the things that were reprehensibly hardened by the hands of the fpecies to explore by palpation, not by the end of swaying rilu, they seem, so wonderfully Catoptricus the work mocks the eyes of the fpedtants. tlanc therefore to catch the machine with many astonishment they do not hesitate, so useless is the system of the engine lest I open the door with smoke from me they contended with prayers. That which I drink I have taken care of you in this place. And so another machine, much Burghe- fiana, the multiplication of five species, prepare the five phantoms of the Phoenicians then Ijjxedtes, I prepared a more wonderful one; how in my MuftEo to fpeddan to all I provide This is done by that artifice, as in whatever the physical projection of the diff can be put in such a way that someone can introduce the same ciat, the most beautiful rooms; infinite co rows of trees produced, various gold, silver, and all kinds of relics I want to see it. In this you will see the gardens every kind of flower and plant (Ftiffimos; Menfas to every gene of cupedias the most important thing Unrelieved robbers, The greatest cannon of the greedy; by which Some people have an incalculable power of money
before his eager gaze, while he gropes with his hands they would try to do so not at the end of groaning and indignation they are alive. This machine has many other features it contains the most dignified body, which; everything a little more abundant, where before the machine con- We will deliver the ftrudion and the fabric a they will be explained. ConftruBio, Falnca Theatri Catroptricians, Flat ArCa some of leafy wood, 5c well made, which height spans, spans length, Finally, it should have the width of the palms, the lower part of which, AEBE, becomes the form square, lupier CD in bow, for- be nice The interior of this will be finished both sides C and D linen, to use arched fuperficia so ve- fties, as the fruits of the fpeculorum in two la C, D, all in the same plane redfcafint In however, the arcuate fiiperficia, so he also pretended to be too high, so as not to be too high let it stand out, the external sweep of the mirrors widely ra, lead, or other wooden nets smoke must be committed with care. This I will finish the body in the middle of the RM, in the form Qjqqqa Jirtis magna Book X. Magia Lars III. Tij. force Iconism -XXXJI-
parallelepipeds, or square columns, mats; fi five, pentedon, that is five ii only four of the different things of the ivfte-laters; fi fex, hexahedron; Fifeptem, he= ptae- let the ptaedron be, and let it be ad infinitum; for which the wooden body had several sides, tan you will have a larger equipment which demonftress which parallelogram the sides of the body of the polyhedron, thus the plane of the horizon zontal AE, they must agree; and be in they are emanating with the same luster. Moreover, this poly- a drum body resting on two axes the handle of the T Again, C and D are attached to the sides two valves: with which the whole engine burns He wants to be closed. But these valves, fertile the inner beauty, even small ones covered fint, as here the valves M, N. do one hundred for these have a principal function in fruitful things fanning Infupremo locoXY, below AS, other valvas fpeculis fuis obduttas af what heights and depths are fixed they will show you the facts, as little as possible it will be said Finally, let the gold be repaid would you like in the first parallelogram of the body face RM, inside the fpecular machine fatili arbufta, Cypreffi, Eagi, Quercus, Pla- tanned, from a green ferric, or wax, even so in the proportion which the engine is capable of, formed, firmly, lest they should fall, affi are worn If you trust to see the gardens, Areo You will form the las from paper, or wax, from everything adorned with plants and flowers which are parallel to the fertile side of the body attach a gram. If, however, Thefauros, I will vary which de-. you would like to show off, coral crowns, silver teis, and gold beads woven into the third pa You will tie a rallelogram to the face of the body. Yes You want to see the library, in the fourth fa cie of the parallelogram of the body from the paper in You will fold the gilded books and spread them in order; the story of the things of the camp presented to the proce let there be more sides than four. Vfus Machina [atoplrica If, therefore, the lylvas are infinite for the pedagogues you would like to reprehend by turning the handle side of the body of the polyhedron, in which the trees A little while ago we difpofuimus, inside the fpeculum it is drawn parallel to the horizon; and behold the matter the most delightful moving curtain rum in an infinite space of products The theater will offer a cat; that little bit for the difpofition of the valves in each one that beach and projection optical dif- you will be able to put If the valves were to the contrary cem parallel, repeat in order on both sides in in We will look at the finished project. If the verb leaning one to the other, walking ca- they will leave the toprica on the sides. All these things experience will teach better. If suddenly Icenara this satyr in Hortenfe Catopmcd. , translmutare fideres, by turning the handle of Hortsruife T, that side of the body of the polyhedron, quodhor He is armed with equipment, and he is able to make small purchases ftes, and behold, the gardens of the fields were covered with every flower. you confide in all kinds of rum
vam for difpofition of valves, in infi you look on with great astonishment smile So I face the side of the body of the polyhedron Thefauris was painted and the curtain removed, soon they will object to the riches of the unexplored rum drinkers; they will make the truth of any kind no king in the world would have elders j Emeralds, Union Turchefiarum that here no number; no end Pyro pores, diamonds, beryls. If denied that you present the fourth side, soon the palace a fruitful rum of all the architectural arts the rules of the beautifully difpofited orders, con the cina of the streets, the obelisks and the columns run ad infinitum if you strike them, they will manifest. Corollary I From these it is clear: let the body be filled with verfatile ris dodecahedron, that is, fi parallel Take twelve sides of a gram leaf ret, twelve different pieces were presented pofle If, therefore, I put out a lamp if you would like to drink, shine in one of your faces lips ordinarily, according to the proportion of ma You spread out the china cereals that were intruded upon you; who The bus will be started, it can hardly be said, how soon How bright is the variety of light and shade the size of the scales. St quitm the variegated fito exhi Bites are dirty; preferably fi valves the difpofition was redone. If you trust to see the word battle, in with one of the twelve faces, mafculi, feu fta- u, the thin shape of the soldiers' arms intruded rum, they are to be ordered in this way; as flexilia mem The bra of the nerves and the wires are ready to be moved, then I will fight the same battle with the dudes of the wires they are to be committed; yidebilquefpedacu-Tefiscat the light is impressive. For let the whole world be in the exercise then it would blow up, so many fighting orders I don't think I'll be able to stick to the poffie. Recreation He had done away with everything he had done up until now A little bit of the cat I live, to one of the didis unpolished snow; while he was innumerable from here to the great multitude of cats he sees, he really thinks he is a fool, he can scarcely say, how many jokes he presents in this theater cat while now trying to attract them, the tail has just been smoothed out, but now the face is for it the first to fix the fimulacro, then to cut off everything to break the bus in different ways, now with his claws to ask how much, in short, I trust them conjoined fiderets with various voices, and mifera bilious moaning of various affections, unworthy, rage, jealousy, unfaithfulness, love! i Amphi theater Catoptri him anoptical Catop- trical appct rtntiu. The Great Book of Art A. MagU Hars list, fate declares. Say the same to be said to these animals. Corollary II. IF the verb has two sides M, N, then you could as not parallel, the fed declined somewhat tulus fitu fe refjriciant: Behold the whole tea trum into a circular form, five perfect while he is leaving the amphitheater; to whom be hinged valves, various amphitheatres they will go away in countless numbers, perhaps a hundredfold pieces Corollary III. Dida fpedacula in the foothills, profun I would like to present it to you. Take the valves. at the rear of the castle XY, AS, on the sides af fixed, rather than being parallel to each other fta- protecting, between each other an airy fpeculum fpedacula, like birds, or meteorolo- you would have been able to wear them so that they seem to hang in the air i will see in everything is so naturally to be presented, and to be set up in heaven. In the lower verd fpeculo, and fi from the highest Instead, you would have lost the little pieces: so who then as the outermost valve of the mirror, the object mon- fire on high, fire in heaven from earth you In the lower part of the valve Ipeculari j res the lowest from the highest place, like a thrice raised ram, presents Corollary 1V. Of all these, there is more forfan, than it was equal to what they had said: a certain key in the palace of any Prin cipis, near the given catoptric chests for He took a portion of the bread, that's all let him show his hand, to every miracle And so it must be done. Let it happen room pt? des long, al then Don't make a bow should have double valves as well as at fce- for to vary the catoptrics, as well as to the light opportunities to be launched; in opposition to Relied in key areas. But let them all be the walls of this room, together with the pavement to laqueari, uti v-alvis, fpeculis fuis ve-
ftiti, Stfpecula as much as can be done, fint large When did the ficconfudrum, who- whether he was injured i i. Multiply the fence almost infinitely then he will see; now walking in the air now in the deepest places then he will find From time to time two, three four, five heads; sometimes all limbs crippled and mutilated it will be looked at; word, no Proteus Thea-
trum, so many metamorphoses of things, as this special room can present. For they will offer so many fe nay, that you may think you are in some city. city z Teipfum suspended in the air with feet tottrm' leaning on the ceiling, with his head bowed you will trust Teipfum flying through the air, and to fasten the feet on the floor to wonder Teipfum now approaching to flee, now to approach the fugitive, you will see Teipfum in the corners of fpe you will see with your eyes at the end of your eyes, already at the end of the ears; I just don't fixate on anything ram transformed Entering the room the mountain fcendere, fimul fcendere to see In this theater somewhere I face now the color of the crimson inftar is red painted as a minion, soon green in colour to take a look Innumerable other fantasies. Mata will show you a little room fane, etV6KpUVTd than fola experience dodos, finding out the truth In this one ca machine, whatever in the whole Magic Ca- it is a short-lived one, as it were an epitome of St anacephaiaeofi you will take hold of it. But now he has left let's move on to other things. Another Catoptric Machine con- to conspire Videfig, Icomjmi As I deliver this, through the continuous heart special pores between fe combina- tions, I find a certain body, I rule I will indeed share it, but that I will give it to no one else to yield to the miracles of the Catoptrician. Yes but let it be done. Specular glasses are cut in the form which he presents to us in p Figure For this plane ex square St fused with triangles, so that fpecula introrfhm turn, for us the body will present a polyhedron, such as a demon ftrat figure in Iconium. But let it be fu- more accessible plane, light, from lajte- re, from squares of any kind, the word gra tia A, by which place is given to the poor. Inside but in the middle a column is placed, in which the thing to be reprefented today push as many pieces into this as you already have In no other body will you see: ancient for the marvelous multiplication of the species an incredible metamorphofeon variety tem, ceu in the afnpliffimo theater of Morpheus you will find it crushed. I say nothing more: fagax Ledor, try ipfo more in will come, which I have not yet explained in many words take care of me ca- of television sandwiches CHAPTER III. De egrejjii Idoli extra fpeculum, five about the representation of things in the air outside the fpe
THE ULTI were of the Catoptricians, who outside of this fpeculum of the idol they mentioned He was the first Vitellius, which is a convex catoptric cylinder inside the room of the cbfcuri, after the fact polished across the room; St through the hole li near the tranliniffa fpiece inside the wall fpeculi fuperficio in the middle of the brass pen he wants to give But I have great experience in this I find it difficult to admit. The first is that it is convex; fuperficie Ipe I was able to resist these things with the cylindrical ass be given for it is to be used in advance fibi has this characteristic cylinder I have a small piece of paper, so that the forms of things are not known tural effigy, fed contradas, coardataf- that the entire length of the fruit is turned to exhibit heat, as in the art of anaclaftic fu- sb has been handed over; whence there is no form outside the cu biculum, by transformation into fertile li bro edoda, it will be difficult, in the image cylinder never to present it in its natural form it will be possible, which is the first. Sectlndb, when that every convex fuperficia images dif- $ipentur, eb qubd reflected never in pun- while they fall, fed in every convex fuper I cast a ray of fiction, fire forms, out of Ipe- be done in the town's parts, and con- when no unit of rays will touch j clearly visible, within the wall, St the image of a cylindrical fpeculi in ae
don't really want to be seen. Additionally, qubd etfi this ipfum experiment is fumeri fumma diligently follow all the rules I wear, but never any truth I would have found your swiftness; whence I know not what It came to Vitellioni's mind to try it the chin thus becomes contrary to the truth dare I do not know the lines of the reed axle of the mirror columnar convex reflection to be made from the line of length of the fpeculi to the fum, 8t Alhazen propof. 2S. num. fuse the proven feds do not make the same idol when this becomes characteristic of the Concave, as we shall see in a little while. It is true not with so much force ro, to do wrong to my fellow-popular let him see, Ledor curiofus Theorem60 li I hated to read the last book it will be possible: the profit of the theorem is thus entered pit: Pojfibile efi fpeculum cylindraceum ta a liter of fifli, so that he can see it in the air outside A small image of something else does not work. This theorem is cited in many different ways at the end of the experiments of Catoptricus at guess He deserved such applause from many, many went to with the help of his wondrous presentation the wolf was sold but the test of which fumpfilfent, urine, reasonableness They know that they are contradictory. not so bold they provided the impetus for the matter. For there are many those smeared with ink, which are cleansed by light: there are many, which; at first sight for let them send, which, however, by experiment fum- pto, the manifeftas are convinced of the fallacy i ex persevering is feeble, and labor is dishonest I give a stone of Lydia, with which something is made to be fanned it is said, the end of which nothing is certain for us ever can blow I mistake this for fantasy Rifner also relied on Vitellius You have been prolegomena about various optical UFOs which is based on a false foundation they are fubfitunt, so fuapte fpont they rush. Vcriini so that Ledor sees many follies understand his words, and one of the artists I bring the catoptric He teaches, he says, To compose a catoptric fpeculum, which imagin- lest the objeUas should not be retained in the faith s fed in the air reject, of the composition of which Vitellius writes, and we will say something. So what prevents it? the women were turned away from the eyes of this small group of men to make fun of them, to call up the ghosts of the dead to see tos fe EXIFl ment, when however or pue ri, or flatuce delitefcentis fimulacrum in ae let them see things out of the glass: for what I certify I will indeed be dung, but see all faith there to leave If a cylindrical fpeculum in with a crutch, from wherever the lame person is fooled, outside but the chamber is set up as a mask, or flat B or something else, however, such as hell or in the end of the room there is a crack through which the rays burst from the mask into the glass, image the mask outside the room was hungry inside the room a light will be seen hanging in the air and with a reflection xions 'a (they do not deform anything with those starches to distort the image of a particular object how dreary and horrible the image may seem a mask for horror and confusion compared to f It therefore weighs the flriges in the room, and that with a little wire; fasting they command, and the rest, as to this thousand things are supposed to do: in this facra is introduced with the uninformed supporter is afraid of such an evil cal Meanwhile, the woman was considered a witch He pours forth exorcisms and oaths, to whom Spirits revived from the underworld will be called back the whole thing appears more divine, it is placed tor in that place, the ray h fpeculo reflected ten He says, therefore, that he sees not in glass, but in air out of the fpeculum fpeiirum quiver, eb quod A small piece of thin thread trembles a little. He sees a cajfa, and an emaciated image in it a horrible hanging in the air, even to the ipfu approaching, be the mask nearer to the crack and let him give way: astonished at this conversation, he did not un about the invegliganda scheme, fed about the issue, ? Art Magna Ltbev Magic (Part III. flight is thought of, how easy it is for a speedy woman to pass through the darkness, there is nothing in it that hinders obtains From there, as if from the mouth of the Orc rescued openly preaches the vision of the ghosts, and Atheists impiety r Who would not be taken by these prodigies? I will do it no! these are more than Pythonic virtues
he would flee, the snow, filled with optical skepticism. Er go the optical light of destiny qflends, pierofque To have non-physical ghosts, fed arti- fciofas, proceeded from impojlura. Behold these are the prasftigias, which as if para- he sells doxas at a fee, the optician a little in ipfa light optician For the first experiment Tuimalfus instead of the truth. And it was done I have experienced this more than a hundred times I would have done it, but none of them would have done it the Author learns about the matter, never {pedtare con tigits: I will not say the image outside fpecu a light that is visible, or suspended in the air; fed not even of any outside fpe- to see the image hanging in the air it happened; in the green fpeculi nothing, but light the dam line appears. Behold these things great wonders; which Rifnerus fufidius pofle to exhibit cylindrical fpeculi convex he worries for all of which Ledor falsified by previous experiment, and futile compe- will be done Who does not see Rifner's ftri- ges, beech, and sorceress, that you may be splendid to present, already to require mathematics, so that there is no reason for the end of catoptric art otherwise they are able to present their masks: who I will give you deceptions and a thousand ways of deception he knows, the little women hafce many other things from to be taught in the same way, cam. The worst among other things is that, qubd apparitions of Peter, not permiffio- nor divine; fed by catoptrical men from by the experiences of other mockers struck: in which the Atheists of this time He seems to be a fool, who, like everyone else, is not smart only, fed profane hiftoria appa relations with God, and all religion lest they should abolish those natures by force, ab to the Tagabian men, and to the philosophers im- proceffifle they affirm to the lustful. How impiety with complete work Inus Merfennus has refuted, here longer I don't want you I only add this to those who know how weak the stones appear in the light to be eaten with the help of fish, and what rate the eye is made to fpeculum, how small a proportion is widely adopted just to be boiled, how small in fine, Let him compare the mutilated idol, as nor from the line of obscurity to the light, as they can be represented, the proportion varies from beat: he will mark the paint easily. For if fo You have brought the ramen a little further, it is already light entering, he will destroy all the species in the midst, and it will fail: but if the opening were less, god: whence no apparition of the catoptri I will be brought to a clear conclusion by these experiments will see The test of this meal is il lud, which Porta brings forth c. Catoptr. from after all At night, said he, the tempejia in my chamber impe- in the middle the image will be seen cujtifvisfimu-Iurl of tears, with the terror of those who touched it. Then the forums the image of the room will be adjusted; than in in the middle of the second room, the pendant was re- We want to prefent, ? about fint multee. do let them light up But in the middle of the obfucuri chamber al the bum is opposed to a towel, or some sheet which begins to receive an inner image: namfpeclantes, when they do not see the towel, see the image will hang in the middle of the air, and the light fa, not with fear, but with horror. Spying on him the irritations of the rites of the people. For whoever he has worked in a fruitful manner, and he will indeed see the cloth, and in it he will miflTam of the image outside the room fpeciem; and I will hang the image in the air He will make them according to the reason with which you will fpece us inside the walls of the room I quickly turn it off, and in a towel ex- let me preface: by no means a word hanging in the air, which, however, as the greatest catoptri when the door sells a miracle. Whether the verb can be done, ut quis fpecu- BaJh with the help of the ropes in the greatest diftant brarn fuam projectiat (ficuti Rocherium It is famous that Baeon once fell from the tower fe, to be accomplished in a difficult walk read prasbuifle) many doubted. Ibs. it is easy to do that, but a little often mouse That I will shake a pen in the air too dulus' can be seen, the leaf of the thinnest air fpe by the mercy of the one who is crying, give him a fuse while it is in the fruitfulness of this Diftindion a paraphtatic air, and a copy of Vitellius clearly teaches Vitellius had a partner smoke, and the watchman, who with some knots
at the end of the fomno perftitiflet, and more weak the faddish knot of the proffessional abroad riding round the bank of the river, where the air the other c-Iclts' will become darker and darker but he saw him going before him, and they did it tem all that ipfe would do. This is amazing astounded, when at last he came to Vitellius let him restore him, and tell what he had done, ab he realized that he was afraid of fear, and did not rest than any other vidifle, than I was The leg is fired from the air, and the reflection is reflected. Therefore, with these ritb prasmiffis, already at last it must be done, by what reason the pictures are in me God, we can look at the hangings of the air: which indeed while we are proclaiming, do not fed by own experiences, which unuf- and whosoever may be trusted, discovered by curiosity Let us make a decision to hand over to the enemy, so that I may give the fic to the fiefs the truth that you love a mouse, to each one illucefeat Tech- WCagia Catoptrica Teclmafma Catoptricus I The object of the idol in the middle of the air prefentare EGreffio of the idol outside the fpeculum, propriuin there is a need for hollows, although fpecu- he also wants to be brought to the plane by this art. first m6, take a glass plate fpeculo making it suitable, and that from one side dig a little; then the wolf in you will have a piece of paper, that your image, so out of the glass he will throw it, so as to be seen by the touch of a wolf: how much but the cavity was greater, so great was the matter with me He will be strengthened by the eloquence. The thing is almost like it is garis, in a hollow fpecies to come out, in such a way that it has gone into a proverb while on the subject indeed, bring any of them to the front, whose yet I know not the way out but the secret collar let them speak flidhi fpeculari concertatum effe. with a sword for having been thrust into the womb, another I lie in wait, so that he bursts forth with a sword seems to provoke and after birth, I will invert the punch nis immediately takes place, to go out, when to engage with the other, see there With regard to this fault and many other small matters they want to use the middle fe, the whole machi they destroy the ship; we are not in any way Gotio, 6c extra fpeculum Idol try camus, and return it to the fat, fubfifting in the air A we are contemplated in this way. We accept rvinltro fpeculum fphasricum concave cujufcun- which size, which we put in this way, as should be parallel to the horizon. Then from the side of the fpeculi is placed somewhere dtum viable, that nofter eye in the line He will see the profundity of the reflection air With this induftria we are in fpecu We bring the idols of things to the palm of our hand mum with a femifle Qubd be objected to it hidden clothes. to speak in the eyes it is impossible for any reason to run into this, so much so a more prodigious thing will appear; and This is the most expedient thing in me of all with the help of the god of air I hollowed out way of holding Teclmafma II. In a small cglindracea concave fpecies re rum, to bring the idols out of the glass. trust i. Iconifini Image in air pen dula Iconic xxx I live with a gentle silver leaf in a fpechlum {oblinas, and that within cryftallinum cy adapt the lindrum in such a way that the cylindrical fu- he would adhere to the performance perfectly, and he would have fpeculiar prepared, which is much larger
was, and more capable, so much more, and the gis will show wonders and it will rustle like a cylinder dri only half becomes fpecular, reli which part is easily obscured by any other matter will be able At the bottom of this fpeculiar, fi than any image, so as to refpedtu your in- let it lie in the heat, you will be able to do it, too exposed to the light, as the image in the background be enlightened perfetly. Behold, you have done a wonderful thing a polished image at the bottom, which was nowhere before it seemed to appear out of thin air, already in the free air the fupra ipfum orifice fpe the skin of the veirfari will be made so naturally, that with many I would often present this phantom they have not been brought in, so that it is incorporeal they would believe it, if they moved their fingers and tried it to properly learn the true phantom fe, which could not be felt. I showed egp by this artifice the Lord's Afcenfion thus ad alive, as all the figures in the middle of the air they seemed to depend Innumerable others of this I am not undeserving of a small fortune
they want to be seen which we leave to each of the jnduftria. What is the image at the bottom of the window so difpo- natnr, to be moved at the behest of the workman tantd fpedtacula you will present rarer in air for to be moved hither and thither by various gestures They will not be seen as stupid. If a little a man should lie on the floor, riofque movement geftufque fimularet, everything those portents of the name walking in the air they would carry See fig. city where B is an image in the bottom, in a fpeculum GEE reflected com it appears in A ffra fpeculum. a Corollary. Can I draw the flame with the end of my finger? you will be seen See fig. Iconifini ii in the aforesaid fpeculi cylindrical conea- If you could light a candle at the bottom, behold that flame in the midst of the air the tail will be thrown, and with that flame it does not become true, only the idol of that one is fed, you will also be able to deliver it more harmlessly. This fpedtaculum with some friends I would show him my hand in the middle of the flag they would see him hunting with impunity, with terror crushed, lest I should be given such a long life that I should not take any harm, my hand to every one They tried to tear it away from thence by various means: that while they were doing this, they found a young man, a hand so much so that the true flame has been removed, so that there is no the danger of the loss of life. And These two methods are true for most of the others falfis, which are frequently cited by the Authors I was discovered; therefore, I promise you to use them. For this reason, too, the optical tube has a certain ra figure adapted to the formation: in the middle of the air reL Artis Matnu Book X 'Magia' Lars they can be tempted, it is partly done, partly tim will be called in the fruitful. See fig. compare where M lamps are at the bottom of the glass in V, a cylinder in the air. Technaphma III M aere guaful figures repr afentdn. We have said in the previous two pro portions of the idols of things in the air with the help of fpeculorum reprefentandis; now It must also be submitted whether idols are real at the end they will throw rum into the air fpeculo? Refpondeo, qu6d when air pu country, Sc not contaminated by the decay of steam because of excessive 'iWfw all impreffion becomes unable to do so by no means, so that in that figure the impreff is represented species rg poffit, when all fpecies of things are diffused, TefrZfeml- to appear, they require a medium denfius, ti nonpof- earundeiu terminative, as can be seen in smoke fpecierum inside the room miffione Whence also it comes to pass, that Ipecies re they do not gather rum in the open field, when there is no object from which they are deceived, let them find and some obftaculum occur rat, which whistles the diflufion of fpecies, already from the seat they begin to prepare, as in rofeida the rainbows in the cloud, the veils, the colors of the clouds go rii, and many others of this kind. whether r5 denfius the middle becomes attached in such a way that A small piece is most perfidiously imitated; not anymore only light, fed and colors, and things He will return the images of the lingulas, as it were while he was in the licktock of the fat we delivered an air fuse. Where to laugh there are some pretenders, and vain of things flatterers who say with the help of honey in the middle free air any literature Rum notes, the shape of the paint, and the shape ri poffe For this reason the verb us in artificofo to present images of things in a certain vapor we are pleased, in the fruitfulness of this Diftindion it has been handed down. For this reason also I am fat in the free air We are able to preface, in the last problem We wish you a fertile part. Technaphma IV With the help of a magnet, together with a small amount of things but they are presented in the air. They are ordered according to that reason, as the bottom go primary is stuck in the air, not ta the mind may be seen as if attracted by a magnet as in the Magnetic Art of Co Archita's loin is handed down. If indeed Gione, you could have had another piece of this, see it will be reflected in the form in the middle of the air, depending on the end of the astonishment of the onlookers, nor, however, any of the vegiti, to whom the matter is based. the reflected tear i nh sere re poff, find there This is the kind of device I'm into I wish to present to my mufaeus: that all indeed they are surprised, but it is hidden from no one perceiving the reason of the difpofition: of which more in the Mechanic of the Thaumaturgist, CHAPTER VI
Le Met amorphojiyfeu transformation catoptric It was not so long ago that he brought it no one from the family, the book fe vi given to John Trithemius in which the author describes the transformation of man whether he promised in any animal s but no account of the discovery of ca I was able to do it: whence it was done by the tricks of the devil Most of the people did not want this to happen it runs Whatever happens to the offerings presented metamorphopheos reason, here I am afraid to disputate I don't want to: I'm just saying, a lot of things nature, however, from the leaves Lue the nature of the mysteries is easy to effect while they are being led away. I know many Trithe- I was caught in my wickedness, with which only beft, as fufpeda fint; as nothing rather born ra seems to be more confetti as in Art noftra Combina- toria, willing to God the clearest demon we will be I think the most famous Trithe- My twofold way of pofle is completed, or by art catoptric: or a more mysterious sort of things by the application by which a man has faith in some ani He thinks that he is a bad convert. Both were successful while that truth, which nosmagiftra experience has taught, try to execute bimuiv- Metamorphosis I fer fpecula flat catoptricafti machine to confute in such a way as a man looking into a mirror instead of a human face, an ajini, an ox, a deer, the face of a hawk, or of a family of animals to report PRimb let the wheel be odogonaHGFD, that is, which he has so many faiths in the environment the size of a human head as you see here. I put it on the sides of the tongue the human heads of any number of animals are worn not tied to the neck, and closed in any way what a machine, so that there are no brakes He wants to be seen, except for her, who is a little girl it is opposed, and the letter DT is fixed. This perado, erected next to the machine the wood MVj at the end of which M is formed by read M; in Qjverb vertebris inflfpdum, so that through the string NMOP? fpeculum Cdtoptricd magic. in any case, to be exalted, or from the first poffit, this arm of the fpeculis normally adjusted. So if on the side D, wheel? that you bent down on that shore, as if in the eye of the eye tro the sewing machine figure of the sun re- he groaned; It is evident from those which we did not say the fourth of this, eye Z in ipe- ass, prsetesr the sun is nothing. If ver5 TTanif you turn the engine with a wrapped fpecicle, matioper so that the remaining sides of the former were obtained mxchingg? let them deny, it is certain now that the Bovine a Ga- A great book of art A goat, a little hungry Urfinum, ca well will appear; all of which they will be snowed in you could The interior faces of the machine, for example three times the fat of the black color of the fint; for the fic figure will be better presented. If true I trust you to see your image MOP string, fpeculum becomes normal ho risonti, and you will have something Note, to as much a ciftam within as a wheel odtogona oc it is politely turned, so it must be spread, as pras three times the light S from B, the left first in fpecu light G, and hence through the opening on the side of the odogonous wheels, no light was reflected is admitted. For this is the light when I go away let these images be illuminated, illuminated by what that in fpeculo the image in the eye fpe- of the giver Z, c! ar& will bear. For all these things they shall approach the prasftigias on foot, be the head of the leaves whereas the natural hairs of any animal you will make a beach whose eyes are made of glass to be fused with cords, or by some other artifice, mo let them be the mouth also moved with a mysterious thread now it is opened, now it is closed. If I say this fimulacru, machines dida reason you will include, as in no other place, that snow which the light will be brought to him, he is ready to be made, open let the place also be filled so high, so that the breath of man does not reach them You will do things that can hardly be done by human ingenuity pofTe will be believed. Eft mi hnjufinodi ma china, which everyone was amazed at He snatches them away, while they are resting in the place of nature I now face a wolf, but a dog they will now look at the face of another animal. Yes from which he had formed the old stone whatever material the dead man's head, go inside with whom, to bore his eyes, while you are going, put a piece of paper dipped in oil on it
push it over the cavities, then inside in the appointed place, he hid the lamp; it will no doubt be seen as a little foolish as can be said, formidable. Metamorphoses XI things fpeBacula in the midst of thee to present the nebris. IF the theater of ffooters effete in Z, fpe- which verb would attach to the larger NM there, which light I received from the underworld rent pofTent out of place the wheels of the which I would like to present the pieces that things in Z, the leaves would see, in the dark teeth For we put the right side of A, eo I was in a place where I was out of the light, He can't share anything. This matter is different whether it is a false experiment by me I would deliver these to you in print: I could scarcely have been so astonished tet in fj? edatore hujufinodi palma, while "X. Magia Lars III, he cannot conceive, whence light to all things the bus is blocked with very hard rims, things re- let him be of long-suffering with no light affufio, nor a fpedator to be noted for any reason he puffs The two will increase the show, I said several fpecula of wings attached inftar, gran diori fpeculo, so that I would be dumb with him or let them close their throats. For from these you perish on both sides, the optic fpecies pro- jedio, see the space stretched out to infinity it will be bitter, and an infinite theater will appear Filled with multitudes of adores, a long co in the order of the lamps, next to the Scenographics the rules of the long-winded traduum: fed ipfa practice will train you better in everything. I read in Arabic the hiftories, which he labeled Dakerellfchriphin, a Baghdadin whom I will give the Arab King Virus Philophophus hujufinodi machines with support so much to amazing perpetraflfe, as you were from the fubdis whatever he wanted to hujufinodi illuforiis port of the tent, St apparitions so much easier how soon the same thing happened they believed more, he would extort. By this reason produBa cjuoejtte by Spharmo- Jin, jive tr an. formation [ciagra- they will become fat. TN flat Verb fpeculo otherwise dida -morphophys can be presented: indeed for the most mysterious reason, become wheels on the sides you gave the odogonous images on the black wires you will paint the picture in detail, as in Magia Paraftatica fol. we encounter: for the image in the thin threads is very oblique to draw a picture, draw another picture He will refer to the creeper with a small one, and another obliquely The same thing will happen, if you make teffulas on the sides You will affix the triangles, and on them widely ribus images depinxerismam fic ratio ap of childbirth in fpeculi, so rendered abfcon- riches, so that it is scarcely able to grow. How verb in threads, teffulis give pictures of should be painted, see Magic Paraft. fol. de Corollary. The clock [atoptric eonflruere. is clear to those who broke the clock poffit, in which the consumptive let him appear at the hour that flows adu. For if a wheel with flat sides, with fire beams You will make a melting pot, and a tongue on the sides You will paint the clay for hours in order, the wheels which weighed twenty-four you will be given hours: you will have something. Hac the industrious government of the Planets lin to be presented in the hours attributed to the gulls poffet: in a word, nothing so exotic, that a man cannot be reprimanded by this art. Demonstration depends on Propolition IV. of this Me- Metamorphoses III. Through convex cylindrical and conical fpecules. Cylindrical mirror, or codice con ficere, m quibus omniaprcediSla compa rcant trust Icon. Flat first fpeculum O cylindracedm of any size, according to whose ma the size on the sides of a paulb in front of the con tracte rotte odtogones figure of each one animal, according to the rule in the fruitful book in the traditional Sciographic Art let it be depicted for them in a cylinder, or co they will not show a disloyal figure, so as an introfficiens fpeculum, nothing but fi let him see the gura on the plane. If true in the vertical plane CDEF, cast trans forms, five difficult any figure according to the rules in the Sciographic art, and the cone is normally attached to the wall You will infuse them in such a way that you can focus the optical rays let the cones rest perfectly; that image of which he was scarcely out of the fpeculiar Please check my features
ntur, will appear in a special cone ficie: which: thing beautiful elh, praiseworthy, I was pleased to be on the walls of the mufsei many conical fpecula from one side to the other transformations of figures normally are fixed, as shown in figure B. But these as we are generally known to be trusted, to other people let's break Others of this Metantorphopheos were shaved. I. TJX is clear to these, itadiffponipofieima- -Lgiries ad fpeculum, as for fpeculi inclinatibne, or reclining, now a woman, now Peter, now Paul; he is already a man, just akin to a confederate fpedatori Z fe they sell If indeed e images of wild animals on the sides, fru- they are often painted on firewood. For the hidden figures reeoile&e in fpecu-; lo, in the eyes of the fpedator InfiecilT1 rent- All these things infinitely multiplied vidtatHr fit, fi fpeculo fpecular wings ad- fneappa- joiner, use in catoptric machine Satvru ceding the iconifmi prteftitum elt. To ve- r6 femper determined image of ali whose He shares with the prince in the fpecnel, and so on that nothing else (cujufinodihic in the Palace Medici Saluftian Cofmi the Great Duke Hetrurite compares the effigy in fpeculo) fa to protect it, by means of firewood, to use it has been said. For the image has three sides hide the wooden rums fruitlessly pta, it is collected in a fpeculi and it ad carries the butts of the pederasher. Or even from Catbptrkd. In any other place, it will be hidden it slides, from this then to the eyes is carried We read the Great Leader Hetrtifise, Henry fifie, in which besides the portrait of the Great Duke I am constantly in contact, I see nothing else be beaten The question is how it is done. Refpond, this could be done in various ways: in the first image on the sides, which: an ornament instead of you they contained a fpeculum, secretly difficult, which then collects in a fpeculi ctae fifterent the image of the fpectator fpeculis. And the glass was so inclined, that the glass was I have never been better looking, fed the leaves he would see the fpecies of the image, which they are clear from the previous ones. Secondly, be Who is the image on the leaf that I saw? the light is forged with the help of living silver, the smith of Ity lo would fall; And then a little bit he would bow down, surely give nothing in Ipe- the ass will go beyond the beginning of the image. But in order to make Ledor, what do we understand by firewood. We call them elf wood oblong shaped like a prism, and in order, in that earlier reason, which in fol. vitreous prifinatum the figure teaches, difpofita For these are others how far apart from each other agglutinated before the table, three fpacia, in with which images are confused, fooled they will The first fspace you throw in the table: fertile fpacium, right prifinatum fa nation and finally, the third fpacium finiftra the faces of the scorned will be fooled. In the present three fi di ve Jr fas pictures you paint, fpe two wings on the right and left of Aptaveri different images will appear in the films fse looking straight at the fireplace he will also find a different image. It is true that we are certain of this mechanism in the Magic Paraftatica Paraftafi fertile fcenogra- a little eugeniofius deferlpfi mouse which the curious Ledor supports. II. It is also clear from the didis, in what manner not in a small letter from: another language than outside they may be reprimanded. When everything is in fpeculainverfa appear, receive, diver- fa terms, qua: retrorfum leda fiiam in that they have a representation in some language j and when he was so moved as to be outside, and within the fpeculum I read them, I would have them. that was obtained. So the word AVE in fpeculo it should be read EV A: OTI fat, ITO: THE SEA, I WAS. So this hemidyfty- when taken outside and inside the fpeeu luin, reprtefentatum, whole dyftiehon will finish iktri i SIGHA jfrtis Mmia Liber HC, MaftdUdrs' III.
'I will sign you, I will sign you 'ROMA TO YOU SUDDENLY Innumerable other things may be said in this place: led from him all these things emanate from one principle, I leave it to others to be rescued. The goal of the orphan IV. I will change my face into empty colors. Flat odtogonum corpus feu prisma, in-
whose tongues are of a different color on the sides fpecula are attached. For if the cryftal force ride on the dark glasses, they will be seen the threats of the green face were confpicuous: cryftallum red, blue, yellow, pink, black, in fpeculas dark, you will have fpe cells, in which men are now red ftar of the Satyrs, now yellow, as itteri- them; only blue, and black as iEthio- look at the foot If, in addition, some glass It has been a rough, deep-throated wound tura, that is, he hides a wrinkled face: the clearest, but the smallest, and the most even stretch out the beautiful clear, Sc lincera If, therefore, as I said, in odto- goni body linguliris didta fpe you will stick to your back; and the body is thus buried, so that there is only one piece per aperture a certain appearance: they will show their sides diverforum fpeculorum, to the opening the indifference applied to the verfatili differed in effect ctus, in the representation of faces: that we intended to do. ries, fi corrugated glass in fpeculum fu- You will be brought back to the blit of the ftan leaf. Metamorphoses VI The face of man in Various animals mm- To transform Jlrose. If you trust the stork's neck to see you plane fpeculi somewhere k side in um good, then deorphum from the umbrella in will produce a cylindrical swelling: which will be easily done, first execute the form ris, Sc fuper her feleniticum to be spread wide; for this fpeculum fi you will be lifted up, your face on the crane's head, and you will see the long neck changed; become You have thrown it obliquely, the river with the crevices dine, or even face the horn of the Rhinoceros tis growing from the forehead, will be disfigured. If you dare to show a goat's face, fpeculum into two beams from another plane how much it will protrude, ipe- and he will give him the form of a satyr, a disgrace, horned, wrinkled, and with a funny gap in the mouth the light red too, Sc incenfam the face of a drunkard, be lined with a red leaf, ex will be there You will touch the head of the deer, be a little bit you have burst into the branches One in a word, no monster is so vile Whose form clothed thee in a small child you shall not look upon the other adorned: whose The reason for this is the miftura of the ipecular plane with curvilinearity Metamorphoses VII. Metamorphofis V. A man's face can be deformed in a thousand ways. A man's face with two flat glasses to offend the various A flat fragment of an elliptical fpeculi, or fi If you do not want to have it, it will be removed from it This is a piece of paper that is thicker than this for the leaf of felenitis in fpeculum first re- then you apply it in such a way as to make a wrinkle at the end, or fold the paper and stick to it, you will have a piece of paper, that the human face in a thousand forms will transform For if fruitful in the long run If you take it in, the head will be seen to go gradually into the cone, soon in f. His eyes will sprout, and his mouth will open fpeluncte cujufdam or prserupti fcopuli Zacics will be caught with sharp teeth. Sihocfpecu- umerfht a fertile latitude ris, at the end of the forehead, first Iphum you, then he will give the ear of his kindred a conflagration: na nothing more ugly could be uttered in the mouth for they are so delicately produced, tim fi you will show the grin of your teeth: as the shore of the sea can be seen: fubin- He will give the biceps and the triceps: with the word, monftruofa variety of apparition barely spring can be explained twice. The same monftra pa- Two flat glasses in the shape of a book they are given a certain bow, so that oc to be politely closed, and to be opened, in figure, fub with which one is minded to represent are covered Let this be done; the machi for in such a way as to pave one speck of the horizon rallelum, the second ver6 quafi normally the former insinuates and you will see that this is true with your eyes, ears, nose, and hair forehead, Sc with protruding mouth: fi paulb bow down more, indeed the forehead, you will look at the mouth and nose, fed with the end of any eyes: fi pauldplus you have bowed, behold, who paul6 He died before his eyes, already M it will be visible to the four eyes. Then go to about the eighth step you have bowed your head, already with two heads you will be rich; and so far inverted but both at degree of inclination
(fate thee, that thou shalt make it in a natural form; then the stock fpeculo fernper more and more incli who- You will do it stork ytrtis magne Liber JXT. Magic Indeed, I connect the heads with the led vertices you will make a ridiculous fpedtabis, and fic femper other and another face will come forth, until there is none more in the fpeculi fimulacrum appear. Yes You are immutable in your verbiage so that both have a vertical shape, te for the reason of the opening the multiple soon you will pay: with three eyes in two ca with pitches, for the same reason as Sandtiffimam They like to portray the Trinity as one one man was paler than the other. In addition, be on this beach you will close one eye and the other You have never been seen through an open window he will be able to appear with an open eye, fed femper clauius, so much so that outside the fpeculum with an open eye within a fpeculum with a lame eye the infpedator appears, so much so that the whole helmet but you look at the iplum. This is true Everything will be better compared to experience. The reason for all the previous fuses she is born Metamorphoses VIII Lars III Catoptric magic. bend the edge, you will make it; imb not in sot Proteus transforms the figures of himself that this fan The taffeta will transform you. Nameless ra in this place about wonderful fpebtaculis, infphte- convex-convex, concave-convex, fphae- rich-cylindrical, cylindrical-conical fpe- culis, which are painted there, so divers also, profusmis they make rapid transformations, this it had to be said instead; fed with that one and who can more easily be tried by means of feme, than I can describe in more words, she confultb, that the work should not be more equally exercel- ret, we decided to omit the contents of the rim this little Catoptrica fupeliedtili, with the help of 'innumerable other curiofum We trust that the matter will be clarified. Metamorphoses IX By side things a man tran- to change Ler fpecula concayo-coriVexa the same to reprehend See fig. Icon. They blow two fpecula, one of which con the hollow wall has degrees, let the side of the pentagon flourish, invite the other degrees will be completed, who So they are united into one, as one fpe the tail should appear, as it appears here in the figure. This Ipeculum produces a wonderful flavor; for an image will appear at the distance of two cubits the image is extended by a more sweeping sweep anterior: closer to the one approaching the con I am tormented by the imperfection of a small image Gnem will go away formlessness, which so much fem will be rendered more unformed, the more ac- I am already in a long time a curved umbrella, just in the roftrata so that the filial piety is in a split face yet, as the middle part of the thief, the other de- At the beginning of this book the man in whatever form it may take we said Know then that things are of a certain nature eat the les, which soon you will swallow through your mouth they have been, the empire is exercised in fancy hundreds, they transform a man into it, ad which is even the most inclined. Yes, I know the root, which men soon smoked for food inanferes, transforms ducks, not fe when the outer life is fed to the dead the thing so that those who smelled it They are thought to be wild beasts. There are other things which by food fumpta, in Cats, Caries, Lu pos didra ratione translmutent, and they will transform True with these extra art the bounds of noftra are bounded, and such things as which he feigned, as for many evils, which came from thence they should wear them, they should not be spread nor do they smoke, I only smoke in the same room that, and the admirable majesty of nature venerating; I smoke it, and I always do it let's finish it with lentils. yii NEW QJJ A CATOPTRIQ A ARTE DUO AM I C not so much the secret conceptions of the mind as being absent from any business to manifest fed Sc absent fe ipfos a new Catoptrica they like to play tricks on their friends; and innumerable present another. r R A F A T o. T A human immemo com- I will be ready, so as to those who proper to the divine God are and the mighty Giant through to dye in every way jiudeat. This au they are, to know the future, fenfa of the mind from the beings of whom on both sides to use the limits of human ingenuity first
It seems to go far beyond the front, thus between ar I especially praise the prince not undeservedly comfort. Htque} as of Afirologicis I will not speak of the secret: certainly Steganography, f And that more mysterious way of speaking in dfians so that in no time it was revealed to mortals giofa Vifa cfi, ut Or ipfi HCundi Monar- cha, its rarity, done, for this reason the greatest reason is the ark of the feast no, nothing so cateroqmn hvfajefiatis Aegia worthy of fi po f to eat life (int while fe fi Blessed are they with this mystery, in the opportune days of the Confilis to be happy, in the important ne- This was done with great speed lo j e dextrous effe poffe had trusted When and then Maximilian impe, because of the caufa At that time, the narrator was Tnthemius the Abbot rice is unique, and the knowledge of this art is great He loved me as much as he loved me. met fub proceeded with it, preface Volygra- the daughter was doomed to the same fate. Of which Steganography, when in Qirte nofira Ma gnetica fiufe dtfferuermus, in, Hrte We are from the profejf nofira Qcrnbmatoria aHuri, in this place, with the help of a filer, I have been living. So that nothing should be done here, I refused as much as possible Let us reveal the secret catoptry with which there is no full business, or even to three miles, two friends safely and safely between them to deliver pojfmt. This discovery was not properly I will be wild, as soon as there is no Author, which I will do, as I remember what I read rim InVenium is prodigious and admirable, and royal curiosity worthy, with this I was only conceived not only of the hidden things of my mind ptus, fid complete letters tranfinitte- re, muris mfcnbere poffit imofua a shadowy portrait of himself, and ahem although the image of fumma ease in 'the greatest other dfianfta, the fub of the rain how much I love Gygantea mdgnitndme fiftere co poffit But the faithfulness of the words ambagV but let us proceed to the matter without words Let's just see how to smooth out the damage. t A R S f R f M A i
INCREASE THE DISTANCE THROUGH THE SUN Chapter t When I'm Luturi, I'm trying to read something to be presented He was the first child of mankind boldness is advanced, so as not to con try a neighbor in Ipacius of letters characters, and form friends to read tranfmittere: fed those Lunari dilco in- fcripts catoptric art to be infpiced for put What is the mechanism of this? inlufius, and ftolidiufque poflit from the cry, not by force god They take the mirror, the holder of which forms It is done, I hear, lest I persuade the little ones they sing withhold, or even so much as to be afraid of the word They will write it down with rum by crooks; so that neither ipfi let them understand what they want. The gate will describe it in these words; Not a mirror it becomes steel, fed glass i filiditatis di gitalis: the ftannea plate is made of antimony purified, .lead, such as m Germany it should be made purple: it should be made of clay: it should be put in place glass, and melt it in the glazier's furnace, to introduce form. This technique in large we will be able to use wonderful things, e? principal pub nd liter as in difio Lunce deficribendas s qua for however much we have dried up in this Jpeculum, po we are afraid to send liter as loiigijfime s because in We have said infinity, easily reach the moon let them be sent, first with the aid of a light there Insignificant nonsense. Cornelius the influenza in secret Philosophers is so inflamed; If the letters, he says, parabolic Jpeculus in- and at that time of the full moon Lurke ex- you prefer to eat the womb or in a waffle some fpscu lo irhprejjie, wherever le they will be able to Thus they go to Pythbagorarti, while Hydrunti would stay, writing the letters Lum Conflantinople gave the legend to his friends. Oh shameless njendacium They think that it is not hi'Ny Effe no one who hates what is either parabolic or elliptical or something similar, no doubt such as ipfi they don't even know him by name, either what properties does it combine with? Eft not pof weak, against whom are these makers of lies Qmnia Catoptrices principles so impu Are not the philophophares scorned? How can it be possible to go out like that? figures of guar letters Do you project the fum quickly? Yes for hardly to yo palpus figures of letters to throw it, how much less to Ipa
infinite, and profusely disproportional then? For what is a little, I do not say three, four or five pafiuum, fed or yoo. a long fathom to the moon would it be different, the infinitive point of the snow? who but in the indefinable point nothing in- will he be able to write? They think that the ipfi of Agyrtse are rude, men are so ignorant of mathematics faith, as qualities, and conditions, affections nor did they know the little parabolics? For if a small parabolic even of three the diameter of the palms of the letters affixed in wax hardly at while LepC experience has taught me, transf we are able to send, how much less in Lu for Given, however; I do not conceive, Lu- for inftar fpecufi efle; but by no means will they die Lu' with human ingenuity on the earth It is important to note that the same thing has been recorded in Lumana in for he would throw it, and over there to us the same refleCteret nifi forfan quis fpeculum face- ret of such greatness that it is fuperfi- cies of the quarter of the whole fphserse terreftris. But this Rhodes would have to be here hooves letters, so as to reprasfentaren in the Moon tur, to occupy the twenty degrees, which; thousands ria Italiana conftituunt. So you see LeCtor curiofe, qtiam monftruofa, fiirda to him of this kind of fools and fanatics they support their opinions, and all the experience of reason is fint of this kind of ignorance human principles I add be the moon It would be a fpeculum j that is one of the convex ones the future in general. ; but it is not convex to him The great book of art X. JXagia Cdtoptriea. mirrors magical from fe, fua nature, tantrtm abeffe, as let him make greater objections, that you may obtain them to &jufta renders smaller in size, as in the proceedings it is oftenfum. ? Let them go therefore I am sorry for the anils, and for the ill-wishers the delusions of men Don't give random credit to everyone really difficult, the snow first surrounds the tias to the principles of nature, feu to Lydia la they examined the foot. Many things, as fope di they are written, they are said, they pass through, wherewith the falfiffima fint, a a stranger to the principles of nature, a fool yet under what pretext the lymphatus, or oc with the cult of the quality of the cloth let the rice be kept, as it were, with fope they were not admitted even in the more modest schools wonder Philofophia was published not so long ago a certain one, in which, with regard to various profits he acts, thus, among the hearts of these fpeculi The author differs. Eft another priefligium to be wondered at: there is no one who does not want to carry the whole thing The rays of the moon make some image, or a letter (he opposes the crypts with some technique to read them who will be able to finish the matter, and from whom bet fpacio and the thief snatches it, eh? together with the rays of the Moon reflected to the ground, which also happens in hearing It is a reservoir, to which fpecies are repelled, as in The echo is clear, so much so that someone is also interested in the matter moved (we become to hear, and to understand something else He would rage in secret, whence he concludes, nature liter ejfepoffibile, end fuper(lition, none through another spirit, man to man however long it may be, even unknown short diftaitiam (dung time to announce men tis fua conception, etfi that time poffit rion unless they steal, but that within hours It must be done, said Cornelius Agrippa to do so, and to do it, and to make it fit, 5c Trithemium fecifle hints at fate. And how I will not deny that it is possible for me to be strong you can reach a huge space in a short time ris fpacio the hidden concepts of the soul send poflfe; but to use it through the letters of Lu let the nose be imprefled with a small amount, because of the coiffures let us go through the loop indicated a little. No I also made magic tricks with which I became the fiduciary of absent things let the results be presented, of any kind It was doubtless that which Agrippa fe ufum di hit But with this all things are diabolical if they touch the riches, they will sail us who fleeing, deservedly with Saint Ma We condemn the three Ecclesiastes, and let us depart. In this way, I have been true to what Hiftorici said they note Mount King Evergetes in the lighthouse tower with flruxiffe is read, in which the hoftium ships, whatever land and sea, and so on
It was prophesied that this would happen to Egypt. in all things, with the limits of nature ex let them yield, no faith is to be used. CHAPTER II. Ve Speculis ad Stegmogrdpbia Cato You will kill the turkey. AD Catoptric Steganography three things are required, a piece of paper and a glass mefopticum, fuftentaculum: flat glass, not glass, or cha- lybeum, fed from metallic material then it must be done. And first of all the Vi- mirror treum, the cryftalline fire cannot eflfe the glass. due to the depth of the material of the song, by which it becomes like a reflected ray in me let him return to the wall when he was repelled by God double which renders things unseemly to use charadeters, so also the greatest eorun dem caufat confufionem. Chalybeum quo- em that it can be effenon, of any moisture everyone becomes impatient. Therefore, in this age fpeculo, as the whole operation of the nographical beard, and the foundation of the mind we ought to take care of ourselves, and that Rodent ink is easily infused with ink and contracted a nasty rust, that with propofito noftro, not so comfortably in it will be able to boil; therefore he works very well it will be cast from the metal you know a small plane, for this is for others It can be polished very well, St ink fine at the expense of any fancier. Secondly, a mefbptic glass is required figure, or lenticular, or hyperboic, tiatd as much as can be done with the obtuse dia- metro femipalmari: blessed hile, who ad hyperbolic glass to standard pupil his eyes reached effedtum for tenfold he will see with a particular lens, and will be amazed. The way of both both the lens and the hy- perbolo, delaying the progress of fu We have given ourselves over to hyperbole in most cases slow motion, the lens into a shorter dif- then he will have the effect of it. And where the difference was greater, with so much hyperbole must become greater. And this in regard to force they make a fool of themselves, but for the sake of the experiment lenticular force will be used to smoke the art trum, of more obtuse convexity. Thirdly, the funny tentacle, which I am so fond of must be done Let the oblong wood CD GH, which has a filfura in the middle, enter how little A can run glass it was that fpeculum that Ptole- B, like A fpeculum, so you were vertebra fint infrtrucfta, as in every part, fitum- that the clothes of those who wear them should be fixed. Foot au tem futinens machine will be F breviufcu- lus, so that the valves of the windows are more easily imposed it puffs up; poffit mnem fteganographia catoptricum per to be done very well, as in the light will be revealed. The shape of the road i. Dt Concave mirrors. SPECUIA is more hollow for this business they can also burn: namfimula- they increase the most of things, Sc most clearly they are It is true that not all of them are small let us use plains more affordable: for fpecula next to the fed developed steps, in this business they have prodigious activities and to a greater extent then they cast shadows. Wherefore I love the thing cis, and I will tell the expert a few tantdm I gave it to you. CHAPTER III. f) from dhftantu, which is used to project forms things are required. UM no natural agent in the able to deal with a finite distance, cer- gem natu- tam determined activity raeininfi- fuse fphsera it is necefle to have it, whose we did not act we call the difference of the patient t in for through this difference all fenfibi- The actions of natural things are concluded there You will continue this process most fenfiBile fun for all agents it gives light, while the cat spreads through the middle I go uniformly and unevenly to and fro pours out, until the fpecies of light the bus finally fades into the shadows: the fphaera of which, indeed, is more far-fetched he says, how much intermediate body is the light he intends more; but he intends that ma give light; lenticular glass, hypete in the form of a bole, and other hujits of the kind, to use in it has been said to those who have gone before, within the light, and the limit of light proportionally di- in a very different place. Forms too reflections, of which in this place properly, my knowledge of the difference in the forms of strength
there To whom they were polished. It is a question of how much difference it reflects They are able to project these forms of things. reply it is given, when the light becomes multiple, multiple also the diffusion fuse fphsera reflected obtain: the rays of the sun most of all they divide the reflected forms of motion, less remote candle I have experience glass femipalmare forms of things ad yes I found myself throwing out my feet, so that in u ru' bfcuro place you throw around blowing they could read ftindtiffime; and it was as has been said, fpeculum plane femipaf of the size of the sea, but of lenticular force fused together a round tube in diameter the third of the palm: hence the proportional polish both fpeculi, and the growth of glass, as well tS I cast the reflected fspecies of things at a distance It is known that both were greater. Yes be fpeculum, and be both glass odto palms, I say that in thousand feet to throw the wolf three times, and not any ra about this matter must be doubted. Wherein indeed in I do not see what the wind blows more divinely. for it is a paradoxical thing, and in the opinion of all incredible at three leagues fpeculo with al I would like to speak, any figures, and so on show Cora reading the complete letters matter which, however, he is so afraid to have, he is not a fool vit, to whom I revealed the lecretus in the earth. The only drawback is that that the species of things increased immeasurably: for example, one letter, lucceffive in the tower seem to grow Another setback while those things are more remote images; so that they appear weaker so that the entire room was covered with snow almost nothing. If, therefore, any one inve He spins the way in which the figures of things in the maxi but diftant to a lesser extent reduce and clearly present the secret in which he is able to boast, he will be glad to be found. I, when I am free, spend it in this way tired of making experiments, here. I was not able to detect that fact. No one however, he doubts that the intermediate dilpofi- by the formation of concave glasses. At this point I have sufficiently revealed the mystery to myself; I think CHAPTER IV. T)e Jleancgraphic practice. See the last one this Iconium. First I give the letters tranfmitterc we will receive: which, however, before let's do it: it should be noted that nothing bi poffe is not to be used in this art, nor in the walls in the shadow of any place, for no ray of light should be used in the matter it seems easy to bend, so it is not a small thing bend the wild beast of the same unregistered Ipecies; and that the place was more obscure, tantb the shadows of things are more equivocal and minute they will appear Whoever therefore He will defydef to exercise the practice, first of which when he wills with the ink of the he was writing with Ipeculo plain A. When ver5 li terrace, and a natural beach in Ipe- m ass Get Up 'Nuerjum in A BCDEFGHIKLMN0PORSTVXYZ KBCDEiGHirrHHOitf-IfZ i AXI S inJpe culo A jJjDAPJ3. ii J J J Cjrecurectu. 2H I KAMNHOIIPI T Y d XV They do not want to have a flat ass; alphabet then we decided to add here, lest Le- d: or would be prevented in practice. Literally a fpeculo infer there they owe to this fit, which in the Latin alphabet Iconi [mipr te [ent you really see it. IN Iconifmus prasfente triple Lin Hebrew, Greek, and Latin alphabets differ gua: we will eat, where you will hit each one first his natural alphabet, the other in- put them in that order, and do what is done there they are fed, you bring them down And here is the fit of the charadtera, juxta which I brought down with noftrte fpeculo we must drink, for according to this I return or I threw myself into the gaping wall they are born, I will therefore communicate to a friend com fyptohgia NoVd, At the appointed hour, I will carry out some business, which I did not transfer by reason At first he went off with the words on a small plane, I am therefore reproving you to your friend bring down For example, fint concepts spring ba hujufmodi fpeculo inferipta: AP MAIOREM DEI GLO RIAM You will bring down the letters with that faith, with which fpeculum AS, refers: so you see these words Peace must be brought to you, as in fpeculo it appears: for the same figures will also be demonstrated
t. f I1 i i. fi Vi o mu ifrm m nntvi ow Traxhfle- pinogra daughter things they are to be thrown, as fpecula R, N, offer. Turn over the unregistered letters plane so long, until the reflected ray in the obfucurum place falls early: fi verb re the bent ray cannot be seen because of the distance fet, a living ray near the reflected ray the diredus will soon demonstrate the diredion fteganographical line: direct this two reflected rays are interposed in the lens cular glass between fpeculum, termi or, so that the light reflected all over the glass to cover fiction. Where do I go? in the proportion of time, which I first found then we must have through oblervation, that is, by drawing near, or by elongating the glass from the glass, until the shape of things in to the room, which I compare the most For this I am done within the wall of the room 'verjmikl tes the whole concept of no end of wonder intently you eat and drink, the whole wall is literate it will be finished; but compare the letters they will be greater than you, how much peace it has been farther Note here, I imagine the letters las nefeio quo secrete nature pidricis ar You can paint it with every kind of color deri: which thing is involuntarily used, so to say St scarcely able, as in fpedatori ad He gasped in amazement CHAPTER V By the projeBion of the shadows, Jiye figure rum of any kind. AFTER I threw out the letters We have done so in the previous ones, in this chapter on the projection of figures It must be said. It is written in the book of Magic, To Solomon the most diligent king they instilled the terror of the majesty of the fue fiibdites while, in many places, even from bus, the figure was reprsefentaffe. That most of them as a figment of the Rabbis then they interpret, when that snow is necro- they do not think that the bag can be made by art: we a word familiar from the fapientiflim of mortals Catoptric art could be done naturally at this point we will stop. And for the first time it is certain, no real figure, or image you are going to paint your own portrait first in the aforesaid fpeculo: and it makes the leaf rustle the final feature of the face, generally speaking they call him a prsefilus, and a difpofitoque to the sun fpeculo: I mean the reflected ray in the obfcu- ro instead of the shadow, five your image per- of Solomon magical re- Fir&Jentation system of charades, images; fed from experience will teach you all things better than I would have been offended by many words. This art We have read many things about you in the history books, which the common appeal of many for help they are held by diabolical reasonings. Of course it will be asked Roger Bachon, while I was in the shade I hide in a place where you don't trust friends and remotif hMw He would provide a large number of people all for the Necromantic still and yet he was a philophophic man all dida by art, at any end fufpedse art he was able to act with haste. C A P U T VI. Woe to the shadows, to the fire colored images. among the others most prepared? It seems like a dox, not so much the arms were transferred to the pofle, and in the walls to be represented by the rich, fed images outlined in every kind of color: fa not a business, we are sure that we have experience more expensive. For if it is not with a metallic ftro draw an image of those colors you will spin, which we call furs; not so much the shadow of the thing, fed and colored as it is that shadows will appear on the walls. Here you see the faces of men in their natural color re ignantes, now red hot, Tf db to glow yellow in color, from yellow in bum, from red to pink and gold to turn, from this to the green, from the green from not in an admirable blue to limit the variety Here you will find out which I like portraits of people as archetypes presented in a natural condition. Which the matter is not the least bit surprising He granted it infrequently, as also at ipphos, who they have the name of the forum, the author in ne- I am not a female fan of the chromatic art has led C Jirtis great libtr CHAPTER VII. 0e fcenica, feu hiflortcareprafen- tation of things. From the proceeding fates, I am not afraid, it was clear, by what reasoning of men, nimaliuque fimulacra Catoptric
they are able to throw themselves into the distance. Reflates Therefore, as to how motions can be induced in them it is done, let us deliver. That by which it is made reason, it will be done. They are made of natural paper I made portraits of things to be presented while only the most extreme of falsehood, which vulgd profilum call, defignatoj fint feet, and arms, movable vertebrae, so Now choose the hidden threads at the discretion of the artist vary, learn, unite, just lift, give sent St. in whomsoever it is done they are faithful. In which the fuperficia fpeculi agglutinated, work, as pritls, reflex the light together with the shadows of the images into place throwing the obfuscation: Look, it's horrible I live, the shadow of anyone on the wall does not move at the end they will present themselves with trepidation. Siyerb to present the living mufeas defideresr the edge of the fpeculi is smeared with honey, St. behold of snufcars by the fuperficia fpeculi quaqua the shadow of the step on the wall I wish you would live there, fed invigorating ma they will reprove the gnats. This the same artifice to be exhibited by a magnet i will be able; for mufes, or any other matter! needle insertion X. The magic of Catopmca. on the other side of the fpeculi applied to whatever the artist will produce them. Certainly this re- the revelations of the mysterious fant, utoifi the mode of expresse fpeclantes should be taught, hardly escape the tpiifpia fufpieion of the art of Magic really poffet CHAPTER VIII. To carry a fltgandgrapbic clock. A clock is depicted in fpeculo that practice, which was here given and fe you see one aim with the numbers, then that be projected by a ray of reflection into the obfuscations the walls of any room: draw a fat clock in a moment then it will be seen. And now it is shown in this way they will be From another clock pro- cise hour is made, St the wind will be applied to the fpeculi Mulca, or lizards, or something else by force of piamgnomon a cymbal made out of thin paper: Here is the shadow of the animal in the projection logiooftendetwhat hour; with anyone that you turn the shadow of the clock. Innu At this point, I would like to add something else, Fed I withhold them, as I curate St. Ledtor fo some new discoveries I will try the wine. For this is green, and properly the natural magic of Paraphtasia, which a man is really able to present them, by which o the frog of the mind exfuperent fenfum St facul state PART TWO CATOPTRICA THROUGH CANDLE LIGHT. WHEN in the proceeding part of the matter rum fitnulacris by folore light in poor places to throw fat fuper that which is delivered, nothing else is fuperell, nifi as how all things were betrayed by one candle So fubfid nodtu to be presented in difficult places let us teach them. I'm just explaining. De- with this new Steganography Catoptri ca by the reflected projection of the leaf light my soul was betrayed by a fubitd a nation of knowing some way, by which it nodtu can be made to light a lantern. For chm experience would teach a little pla whether to this nodturnse Cryptologfo the least: suitable for the efflepoffe, nor the filumacra of things for any tation due to the weakness of the light to throw poffe; I did not attempt anything, as desired to finally fucceflu potirer: necfriiftra: some continuous combi- I have discovered the nation in which you are born of Light and Shadow
We taught her to become a fool of light the same leaf candle to be presented as a favor Another method. poffint This is just the beginning of things so you will exterminate the witches of the dead They polish the projectiles, so that no work is done the opening of the window fed into the room conftituti, commodb from the shadows in the fene- You have thrown away the papers, my friends they will be able to perceive yours. Indeed, when the preceding speech is the same, led Ipe- culudiverfum The third way. Therefore, at first, the hollow glass is flat as much as can be done with dullness; degrees or if he was an undressed artist, let it be a parabolic form; together with the tube lenticulari hyperboliformi, Ipeculi con proportionate hollow. For these ritb pre ready and polished candles, so that they burn la inside the fpeculum, and the glass is placed, it burning until the whole candle is burned see to the light of Ipeculi's craftiness
smile I live here, a glass, a fringe of things In the middle of the Ipeculi, you will receive the reflections; which at last in the shadowy wall, as before in the Sun, he will exhibit a variety of things. Eft au the theme of fimulacra, live shadows in ob- the representation of the fire-rooms, much what happens to the Sun will be a rebuke more beautiful With this art of the wicked, I will give form and put it in a small place, tranlmifla, from the perpetration of fcelera coer waxes are easily waxed. But all these things fo Ledtor's genius beyond refinement we leave For indeed not all of them the manner of the apparatus of the spectacles introduced they are a more affordable machine to perform there is this genius. Let the glasses of Iphae be accepted the greater the ra, the more propofit exe- therefore more appropriate. In the dome of this ficie, fie he likes to speak with a friend, con taken by abbreviated words bes If it's teipfum, or anything else to represent a portrait of you you will paint something. After this, be done I lighted a glass torch from behind you would have been able to face the letters: then ra- a false projection, as in the preceding with these small glasses, lenticular glass, you are caught in a certain place; in the greatest also diffusing into the interior of the walls the letters and figures of the fphaera were inferred, when you will cast the great astonishment of the onlookers; and this test is much easier it will act like a hollow piece of glass. No however, this is only a puff of chicken as for the candle; no verb to the Sun it has some light, because it projects radiation dtura Solis by this not in any de- He wants to reach the place of death. Innu in this place the mere force of the word is applied tion of this mechanism. I turn to others also new things to be discovered let us leave the ground, and let us not work in im- let the man grow; wire machines we break off further, you remember Me better nander OttBCpO? a hcyois. EPILOGUE SIVE PHYSICAL METALS LIGHT AND SHADOW RE E E R T Martianus the Philosopher Phus, once united to Philofophia tis trina fatigium enriching together with fire, and fphaeras vomuif- faith, and circles. What wonder, and we, with whom all labor rests in the sphere of the soul, to his burning passion from the lowest things tim through the middle steps turn around and strike at that strange union and tribulation 'The light of the lamp, his eyes with his hands, ? Forgive me, you great God Sator, and King of men; for I am not these things contention of the spirit, nor of the majesty of thy Pnteftm Ipe of vain glories, fed by the common grace of good, quan then iple fconcefleris, for hymns, ho I will make a sacrifice for the praise of your name. You are the Father of eternal wisdom let the light of thy countenance shine upon us to the writers of Iplendor, whether great or small jg6 Jfrtis Magna Lifor Epihgns. fcintillala, as both for an infant and for a little one, ma Your good works will be manifested, and it will be from the highest levels of the world, from the middle, and the lowest blessing and your majesty in the hearth rum stove The sun is the source of universal light, a wonderful vessel, the work of the Excellency the chamber of the divinity, the reef the beauty of heaven, and the beauty of the world, so much so He was amazed at the workmanship, as by the common reckoning of the old theologians, not undeservedly the soul of the world and inaction The head of the foggy Deity becomes and worship: whose inestimable virtues who intruded a little deeper into the confession he will be forced, he will not be consumed by the heat of life, and suffocate all the heart of the world with the vivifying plate to animate the pores, and invigorate the animated ones to warm up; fed, that meritb to someone it can be seen as a dox, the arch of all things tectonic reasons, all, I say, gods nae, and the human faculties of woman in fe to contain, so that there is none in Theology, or Philosophy is so intricately lit which is not of this shadowy light let it not shine; which gives the greatest light from let him not receive a speck of this worldly light, by which he was understood, and through whom he was known He compares a certain analogy of things He was brought down by the obscurity of the avenger there that which in this Light, 8c Shadow pilogo, which Metaphyfica Lucis, We called it a shadow, not a fuse, fed
a kind of fumary deduction from the first en thee to the triune Sun Archetype through tongues rum created clafles faCta, demonftrare we will try Epichirema I Light Tr'0und. Just as, then, in this corporeal world is light is, with the help of which whatever they are, con- they are hot and dry; so and in that Archetype light to the unlivable and greedy world some are infinite, incorruptible; from which because from the most abundant source, they promise everything, than we say nothing else, than God the Most High, whose these material light is something like a phymbo lum, than Simplicius in Proclus vo cat lucem pri mother, and the image of the father's depth, worldly But it is supramundane they are those which are pre-eminent in the mun Dana bodies exceed all, and excel lunt, that is, they are incorporeal. Therefore, be this first light, and the worldly one it is, and it is incorporeal; necefiario or a own worldly elf fe, the soul is like a fountain, or from a deeper one He had to do something through the middle of his soul, Eft au tem fupra animum Fertile mind, before fe once the first, before the first Father, which Plato's audience calls him the prince of Eden I am yours, and infinite Light; from which forever let that empyrean world be illumined, and from this raised Therefore, according to Plato, light it is an infinite world of ideals, of ideas full of lights, and therefore rightly paternal called depth. According to ye- Ideal teres Theologians Mind the first infinite light mu? da: it is from which it is incorporeal, that which is incorporeal the first light flashes, which is the image of pa of the depth through which the light is produced all true fubftants. What all Christ Phthian Theologians to the Sacrofandtas of the Triad They transfer the sacrament; so that the light is infinite this, and the stern becomes Pate'; light from light becomes a Son, five rays some divine fub- the glory of the father, and the glory of the father; from through which the heat proceeds, that spirit being melted, the whole Archetype, and thus the world warming the universe with fire. To whom let the first Minds of the ancients flourish Theologians understood the fruitfulness of the first of the mind, in what part of it is that light at first light they go to fight, So 2o- after In this, however, there is light from inertness He was led by the root, not otherwise than a ray reflected from the Sun in the crystal. First therefore instead of infinite light, the light of his light a shining image of the fubftants contained in it He enlightens: indeed, the fecund intellect is fecund while thirdly, to defend from this understanding says the weak in the reasoning soul; he said for; Whose light is thin, and crackling very early in the morning. Fourthly indeed instead, he said to him, with a lull in his reasoning mind, ma nare the nature of the venter, in which less lu the mind is something in the farthest; from this spring the nature of the soul flows forth in the light of the fourth degree in the falling plants, which since in the light she is pure and full of femininity, scarcely it retains a stream of light. All these things Plato approves of wealth as a calculus I create a world where I embody light, and intelligible, says the model of the sun, because the beauty of the world is beautiful: tantb for the intelligible light is the living light longer and more brilliant than the sun in the darkness 8c day nodte Furthermore, the Mind of all souls leader but inviable, and intelligible to the gods does the Word call the image of God the intelligible image of this image the word that was given by the divine word is the bottom go, which word is the workman of his generation was, and is fupercolefte fydus, the fountain of fen- fibilium fiderum, which The Sun, and the Moon, and the rest of the planets, are alike that for the natures of the condition, congruent you get the shine; all of which 1q fuo approves Trifmegiftus in Pman-rtf; iMetajymicd LUcis UmBrk, and And I see an immense fpehlaculum, lu and do all things cheerfully and cheerfully. And a little bit: But from the light the word which dam fahium lay down natur ce, G? purifying fire Jimus jumped out of the wet nature of the blime I have filled in a little polish with these words cat. But the light, says he, is the mind of God. who before nature, moist, as from darkness it appeared: the word was really shining, which came from the mind I will be of God. With these words Sa- crofandtse the myth of the Triad so aptede-
he wrote, so as to do so by divine inspiration ftin&uque alluliffe may be seen. So it dries up all the lights of the lower world are from lu I was lifted up, so these things are in Zoroaster's pleas from the empyrean; from Philo from the word omnilu- a hundred; but this from the word of God, this from lu ce first paternal from Hermes from Plato nis verb giving light to the vegetating soul it is the aluminum of the lens, the light of this k lu mine reasoning this light from light coming, the light of the mind from the infinite light of the mind tis primary, and the Word of God. Brighter still They deeply admire Mercury's speech I will give, Ipecftated order of things de- He wrote a book about power and skill. There for the latter seems to refer to the ma- ximd to the perfon of the Father, the fapity of Fi lio alignare, love, and the will of Spi ritual And in the formation of the first world It refers to an immense fpedtaculum: everything by force turn sweetly into the light suddenly, and fpe- They prevailed over a long and infinite empire theme I want a little, a horrible shadow five dark oblique revolutiond lubter- gliding, with an unspeakable countenance, whence narit: to whom the third time the workman affixes the word, from the elements fcenus diftindtum ranks the world in number, and in proportion he preferred And so, as it were, from the turning of the light nis infeipfum obfcure nonihil ortum ca it will be seen that the weed is innumerable, if you count it high clay But bursting forth from the light, strong, form; understand the spread he came out of the diffuse fog Mundtmi m, ve material. Similarly, close to the idea fyftema triple movement; then in the active principle, then, ln Pa{flvo f, in both proportion the norm of nicdi&jj will be permitted to you that cllll JHodo addio nis to conceive a threefold difference, and nce igu[a. vo{untajs of power; of which he becomes the former in restful rest as if of divine power ra I praise God with the term of faith; The second it becomes like a divine ray; of light in the content the nuum was returned beyond and on this side, and to other things for a certain time a fog fell through the surrounding sky the snow breaking through the cloud: the third, as it becomes deterrence threatening the other; type Convert as if a bright ray were cast upon the world of fphaericfe entwined j in whose circuit is full, full It is placed in the perfedao of things to be produced. And adeb from eflentia thee, and the mighty power of the fphasra center; anyone's comparable, of all things as con the archetype, the effect of things, is taken the most pure, eternal, and eternal Lemper is a workman's mind. From effient i a; dima nation as if in a redturn, which arete fu per- It is comparable to the physical, the progress of things was conceived in the generation, that is, ipfa principles are still unconnected runt, whence effele fimplex, determine then, until little by little I set the rays in a circle when they came together, they began to darken their hearts the rudiments of the police; undefined tamer because of the nature of fuperficia, whence afla You are the first elements of the world propagated From the effervescence; spreading the word into the world abfolutum, &folidum, fphaericae Icilicet circumference; a comparable effect to which that composed and determined profuse through these inferiors he dwelt. So you see how to the whole physical movement of light this corporeal mass of the world was little by little rite developed, Porrb nothing in the divine world; Trinity Sef is found to be closer to the Sun. For in one of the Suns indeed three fubftants between le diftindta they are equal and united. The first is nature a matter of creativity imperceptible to the leeches. Himself when, the light manifested itself from the fruition flowing with wealth, equal to ipfi. The third from both heating forces, completely equal to both that: Creativity refers to the Father: Light indeed of the intelligence of the Son through the intellect concept: Heat Spirit of love re- he presides. All this is very beautiful the divine fane epiphonemata indicates. The truth is that these levels of clarity are better let them be understood, a little more than they are rational I also took a swim; as the quantity of Light and Shadow knowledge in the more eloquent Philofophia myfte let him open the matter, let him be known.
Epichirema Of the end of the light of the stern in the creature Ihil in this gentle environment of things that I do not breathe, life, motion
from that infinite fecundity of Light it covers feet of fane, and the deepest epi The phonemate declared that God's love was difficult pulus James Apoftolus: Everything is given to me mum, and every given perfect decendent d Father of lights, with whom I will not end tation, nor the overshadowing of life. Which words with the entire Theology as if I will give the lint epitome, the mold, as much as you can eat let us explain When yh-tis ttfagM Liber When, then, every creature becomes the best: And it was given, descending from the Father of light does it become the best gift? God weeps, when nothing can be given, which in it is finished: it should not be allowed to lose its power, lest that which one may be given, that in the same place of God the tension should not be contained. But in power good is good fed is not the best I have one fimplex from Ve Common take care, therefore, of the snow and the snow the best, it becomes more difficult for him, rio fe ipfum will communicate: therefore it will be God and creation are one and the same: while indeed the mode of the giver, God is eternal X Epilbgus. This is something other than the reception of light nor is the light permeated by things, fed and flourished while the manner condition of the receiver is received with a kind of defcenfive expansion, whose ending color ipfe, is imperfect with which, fecundttm one mode of red, fe and another blue, or pinkish, fe when another another s so that every elf color is given by the defcenfive light, and so the light becomes certain of all the colors although sharing the purest faith it spreads, it happens, however, as a mixed matter shady and dark bus, from various rece- nus, .infinite, incomprehensible while the creation of the times in which it sinks is given a variety of colors rwm re dttita comprehenfa But variety, and mischief, also so easily extorts, that rum is not a matter for the light of truth Lydia exa-1 therefore the light fic received is no longer light Let's face it. Rede Philolophus form defi- Iit, led color, or light fic received contra- the elf nits her, as he gives the elf of the thing: which is so it must be understood that he does not think that to take the matter from the form of the thread, for it is threadbare of Just as, then, the form of light it has to do with the form of colors; so the light is infinite the things before the eflet i fed form giving the efle adforms of the creatures. So the soul of the matter, it is very weak in every matter which it exists, the power descending to judge the universals, as a thing is given to a thing, ipfa is a form given to a thing. it is one and complex, the whole in the whole. St in And God is the giver of all things, life, and all the organs, and the eye, that he may see movement it is washed away, and it is a universal form, the soul, not as a universal power which the Platonists, through the soul of the world, iEgy- difcretive, fed the same with delcenlu ptii through the spirit diffused into all things, let him receive the five contrade j whence they fit But because the form gives only the object to which the proper powers of the thing are concerned in any particular case, the form is ipfum effele latur. So to the light model fubftan- of the thing; hence God is the Greatest and Greatest, giving such a universal form make a noise Therefore God is not a ter- ftantial form in so far as a fimplex unity uomo. io of earth, of water, of air, or of any other thing, fed form ipfius earth: , air, water, abfo- muddy form Thus indeed, as God is the form of matter catholic rum, give form to the tongues, per which they exile For there is a form of each of the created thing he was defcenfus from the universal form; so the shape of the earth is its shape, and not high the river May all things be wondrous with futility They are expressed to us in the Apophtholic epiphos nemat, as he says, Given the best de- fcendere, Colchodea, that is of forms to give the giver no other than le ipfo, when the gift of Inus becomes the best, then, the greatest, catholic; led from par the receiver's obffiac It is given to be used, it is willing to be received, and it is given with pleasure the defcenfive option, by which it is made to be infinite to the end you, universally, washed away on the contrary, it should be received. But such a cold ptio, when from the truth of the communicant of the faith he bows, her to the lowly too,
it is not necessary to turn the image, as it is no longer the giver's sales become than the otherness, and the diversity of the neceflarib is collected The truth of the matter through obscurity Jbeus I explain things light by light. Light form form, becomes indeed universal, every thing effectible iftendiutr every colonist is quick; for it is the color of vem as with difficult rays, that is, nine in a defcenfively fruitful manner when title, quality, relation, addition, paff of the river, the shore, the place, the time, and the habit of the matter It is thought that they will complete everything for a penny there But because the quantity is not purely fubftan- tiaiiter, fed defcenfive with contradion it is received in a certain way; the amount of fub There is no abundance, although everything is an elf of quantity it is given by fubftance, every color is painted the rum was drunk with the corporeal body. In the same way about the birth of God ture Angelic, human, and brutal ra mnium to be confused: so that even from here it is clear why the gift of the God of all things to the name of the world tps, and to call all things in the name of God willed: for indeed I was the form of the work (pro pter fe ipfum for he has worked all things) fe He gave the world to be lenfiable the world is made because of faith, as reception ipfius defcenfiva, which in fenfibilem gra while it turns from light to shadow, goodness It reaches more easily, and the light is infinite so to use the flamboyant flamboyant, so living vital, reasonable, rational, intelligent to the readers, finally, with the intellectual ray of light go From this it is also clear how to create tura femper has been from eternity, fire and light third, with which he defecates: for when given thrice Metaphysical Light Shadow Eternity is not received against the snow, hence eternity is the end of the beginning ve, and when he was received, he went out in to the world But having already declared these things, to Pa let us return the three lights. The Father of lights is God, in whom there is none transmutation, nor the vice of cattle brat He is the father of lights, in whom there is darkness there are none; the source of lights, from which everything the light everything that is in the world, appa There are some lights of one God. who is one, but not many creatures may appear to him as light in the colors of dark bodies. De- Therefore, different lights shine from the understanding the many lights of the father; and use this reason Jderltu' nifeftat, it is a fimplex unity, washed away; the beginning of the largest numbers, incom- prehenfas of virtue, the appearance of which is not fi is found in a variety of numbers: it is a weight, an indescribable force, which the ox in quantities from iplb fimplicilfimo I give to those who fall; what kind of lights do you go with? ris is notified: there is a moment, you must most complicated and incomprehensible, which leaves I was caught in the fucceffive flow of time may; but everything is a fertile number in unity, fruitful quantity in pun do, a fruitful flow of light in mo the chin, and that which is fruitful in all things they are, were, or will be, or will be run into the infinite omnipotence of God by virtue you For God is the best and greatest of all I have a strong virtue in the future, which while I will be from nature He wants to share the strength of fe, a fe varia lu mina, which Dionyphius calls pav&ctg, diff pours In which give all the lights he notices the defects of the light of the glory of the world. But This generation, which takes place voluntarily, does not having a cup of tea, his goodness; becomes in by the word of truth; for the word of truth is an art it has been washed away, which everyone can call light of reason, according to that: I am the light of the world. In in this light, which is the Word and the Son the first-born, there is a fuprema apparition, and the light and splendor of the Father So all of them apparitions descending from the Father of lights He begat, as in the smoke of power, and of union by the strength of the apparitions all appearances would be confirmed by other lights, in which all filiation is broken off explainable in any way, and univer- faliffima by art, all by art whatever which can be explained, every light is scattered by fire that distinguishing, or distinguishable. He gave birth but in that word we are masters of art, and of apparition, as while the light of the his, which is an infinite Word, in de
We receive fcenfu in the manner in which the hujufmodi in we can receive defcenfua, we are ini some of his creatures. Moreover, you should quickly understand that no later rest, let her intellectual nature take hold of her, do not touch, that you may be of the powerful by virtue he may go on to hell; The spirit of perfection knowing that he presides over many lights; everything for however they were created, the lights which I will give him money I will give it to you in the light of this meadow born, he goes to the spring of the liimin. He sees man eats various creatures, and goes into the sea He is enlightened by virtue, as he was created to be free the rare light continues. So the servant of God Be- the whole, or in one ray, the world he sees For while he sees another creature At the end of the vital movement, we must live one thing, another to reason; soon enlightened, he sees, and nothing of all, which; in various creatures are apprehended he understands When, then, every creature becomes another what is contrary, the effervescence of all, is not important. something of everything, fed nothing of everything deliver So from the tears of fenfibiliufn they are infen- reliably in pieces; eflentias fpecificte abfque fspecification in genera; eflen They are generic and generic in nature washed away the things that God is. are other lights, which are infused by the divine the enlightenment which they lead to be infused to treachery; the light of faith shines through that which is understood is enlightened, as the fupra ra to the apprehension of the truth gives: and because you understand this light to guide you there, that he may believe that faith can reach the truth but how is it a helper of reason? and make infirmity, feu cosiness, ob which he relied upon as a kind of staff of reason with an effort divinely given to him, he leaves, and that he may walk, strengthened in the word of faith unquestionable fpe aflequendipromifldm led from a feeble faith, which amorous curfu appre he throws and whoever is imbued with this end they have been with hastiness, all things have been asked of God infallible thrice by promising Chrift they are hot He must therefore understand the ineffable riches of the dual light in power, which, however, when they are in power, we ha we do not know, by which way the light in telledual in adu exiftens us pandan tur, and the method of extricating it into the abyss, stumbling there As in the field of the poor are the rich s-immtu many in power, which fi anyone there knows for there is bread, wine, meat, milk, honey, corn, flax, and wool, and whatever ad They are not worthy of life to be enjoyed may not see with the eye, but the reason of the light ftat, so that he really knows them on that side, while the agricultos of art, fortified with fublidio, gra men, and fegetes, and all kinds of plan and brings forth trees; with which sheep z for archetypes ptundi you will become
for the cows milk, and the grain sheaves, li or, to cover the bodies of the Neceifarium support is stupid. So this pa- therefore, enlightened, he continues by faith, and enjoys nancifcitiir of a fenfiable life. On this account The intellectual power of the field is all in each that lead to intellectual life they hire a dam, they are restrained, provided he is worshiped again, and his virtues must be ex they are expressed by stimulations and modifications. Now we have come to a notice of this kind by the illuminations of those who by virtue, full of internal light in this field by cultivating much i long-term work spent, those in the shadow of this world smitten face, with all the light in his heart They pile up works, Philosophers, Prophets tas, and the Apophtolic men, through whom Dator lu revealed to us wealth, and the manner of cultivating the land, and laws and precepts, to which, with noxious herbs, frugiferis, and loliif exftirpatis, in ipfo plant the tree of life, and go forth we want to read Epichirema III. How is eternal light made in creatures} how is light created in light they can Effetius Sol Lunce omnis creatcefapientiamybolafunt I first understood the angelicus, objected that Moon understood the word of man everything is viable in the future. In the sun light it is clear, fine, fine, fine, fine be, shadow, mist; on the Moon
brofa, and the light mixed with various things lives: he line image, fpecie these fuafibifpe- Come on, imagine the fusion. So the sun, The moon, the great lights of the world, all let them fill the vanity created for us; they express a divine apparition. In God the first is fubftantial, and uncreated laziness An angel desires God; I want this one man, the divine fortifications are to be stoned; an irrational verb is deprived of light. God The quality of wine is unchangeable, in quality tia, in identity, in goodness, in virtue, in beauty glowing with warmth, light, and brightness, ab With all indolence, otherness, malice, difficulty with the slyness, darkness, and shadows Immune to fog. But Angelica, hu the mana of a wandering creature is indeed a stone give them the power of the divine image and light some natural fpeculi, or better I will say, a kind of mystery of the divine light storehouses: because, however, it is not eternal they are, fed from non effe come out, lapfa tan then a. To God, infirmities, inequities, trust Artis Magnce Book X. Bfdogus I trusted the strong, as if they were in the hand of a man having turned away, not ten from the fuo order they gave for it is docile to idleness God did not make it, not to be changed into infirmity could Epichirema IV Ornus knowledge is the light of the primeval light proceeding endlessly. Lord with God the chief, and of the whole world natures become the Sun, and the chief of the whole the object of knowledge, all the power of knowing b Angel, (in so far as it can be done) in God, so that the tent is attached to the attic, and it is like AicMatm. some kind of God's love, more than lightning a receptacle, and a natural emanation; for this light was made material for the eyes it is a natural object, into which I turn tur, so each cognitive force is based into God, as into one's own fubjed, as into the true Sun, as in the end, and then the last converator. But this light in ended, not in the same way, not in the same way cie, and in the same way I understood the reason nor is it revealed; for he understood the matter be veiled in the light of reason I was in the dark; from Angelico's understanding re, naked s is made by man through the children of the shadows; from the irrational in darkness, and the privation of the purer light. Light the breath is in God; And there is God. Lu men is the first verb: emanation of light, direction as long as the ray of light is the shadow of light either cooling, or reflection: darkness elsewhere they are called privation of light: light in the Sun there is, and a kind of native brightness of the Sun: light it is, that I shall be washed and cooled by the rays from So- each is derived from the elemental world qiii rem: the shadow is a kind of light by re-cgm[cant. diminution of fi-adion: darkness is light all kinds of deprivation As long as continuous fimilemediumfertitrunus, di- reduced and infrared ray of light, light it is where the verb in the middle is transparent opacove fraud fgitur, shadow cenfe- tur: but where the middle adiaphanous leaf the dark, as it falls on the ground, hold there is the beginning of all the light, and perished. Which degree of light the distribution of shadows to all of us they put them in front of their eyes. God in the country he is of the light, he dwells in the light, tefte Divo Joan not, unaffordable; An angel in the country of light; a man in the region of the shadow; animal in the region of darkness; the first light in fe ipfa a direct light in the imperious space, a shadow in the shadow of darkness in the victuals of the earth In another way, then, it is clear that God is pure light An angel, otherwise in a man; otherwise in the soul H: For divine fspecies in Angelicus in Sia evaferunt: the irrationality of the word of the free ex-telledu received, the light is inexhaustible, "everyone. of Light Shadow,
cognition is made. When, moreover, man it is made of earth, and is composed of earthly dregs not concrete Light as in a dark body cold, it denies the further diffusion of light. As, then, the shadow of a human being is between God and man, angelic clouds an interposition j thus an interposition between the light Hold the angelic and human body of the beasts in the living creatures again God is known by an angel, as in from heaven, from man as in the clouds, from animals
as on earth. But to make this clear: @umofo It should be noted that all cognitive power, tr? .o co- as we said a little before, the fourfold efte, tio, n, s. fx uncreated, angelic, human, ani- sometimes create evil with the divine eye emerfifle tion, which to each other le ha bent, as colors to the light. Very well then every spot, refra&iomfque expers: in the human word received by reason the divine species there is a shadow, while the fenfus are in the minifterio impe riches, I did not drift through the fpecies of the fensible shadows, and the creation of natural things as if he were looking at God in a mirror. In the anus the word of evil is the extinction of all divine light. As in the previous two lights fpecies efte oftendumus, Lumen, Um bram is made by a double created confti- we protect the angelic and the human, for which reasons all that is in the world is stored up. Epichirema. V. Let God be the source of light, and the angel the first light cis fpeculum, fertile fpeculum, man. In the foregoing it has been said of the order the diffusion of infinite light into the lower; now by what reason is the divine light to be received; we shall call the divine eye Light, Angel fpecies in the inferiors, it must be said. i licum Albedin, human Rubedin, God, then, is the unexhausted source of all light for the animals of Blackness. As for Light it is received by the Angel immediately through the fountain, and the beginning, and the perfection of the colors bright day, bright, near, God-of-all, going far ahead of the colors. that the neighbor, no and snow stained with imperfection: neither anything between God and an angel gives way, that the divine light enters into the angelic to prevent the spread of the word, or to die to him It is possible to place cem j fed received by the divine the image of light; ceu fpeculo some lu cis first, through the middle different, re subject to fractions and distortions it reverberated in the created understanding whereas a man is quick; for he is an angel with a kind of shadow in between more powerful; so the divine eye of all o It is the beginning of darkness, and it is the source: and everything is made the color of the three chiefly, at the two extremes when it is expressed in the middle, thus created it is a trill. As also every co it is a kind of fpecies, and an emanation of light, every created eye of the divine in- fpecies of created aciei is, Sc fubftantial emanation The divine eye therefore rests, and the source of all color is the angelic verb of the first light of whiteness, human of ruby, compare the animal by which God and man are broken, they shall be divided: so that he may have faith before the divine eye radiating the vines of light, like the angelic sun of the divine sun, with the whiteness of the noonday light, ardors intolerable to human frailty; the divine ray of light in a certain way restrains the pinkish color of the dawn, an animal verb tur, and finally between the clouds, and the night, darkness, and a black mist digitized With all this the following table we understand now the shadow of the divine glory is hidden how shadowy, and imperfect, noftra co. God Angel Man AnimaL Mind. Understood Reason Mustard Light Light Shadows. Darkness. Light Albedo I am blushing. Black Supercoeleftia heaven Clouds. Earth Eternal light. Meridian Crepufculo Dark nights. Fire air Water Earth You see, then, how the Angel, Ho- mo, the divine influence of light through union let them escape to God, and whoever for profit nis live streaming condition: Angel in Exalted to God, as if unobjectionable the most important, eternal, immenfum, opti mum, truest, end fpecie, comtem- the force of the payment is made one with it: human but the object of the fpeculi, the union of God, and Angel He expresses the extent to which man is not God immediately he knows the way, St. transparent. God there from an angel, like the white and white sun not a spot of cloud, or a speck of color He crushed a man, like the Moon, a red fub ma with his face like a fub reflected by Angelico with a small angel of light, and with a cloud, and with heat gine j from the animal, as black earth, darkness T ttt j The Great Book of Art 'K. Epilogue fa, opaque, impervious to light rays,
He is welcomed. I am an angel and a man The colors of the gods are those in the divine light, or in the dark bem, or tending to the body it is said: God is like fire; An angel, as air s man, as animal, as earth. God, that mind; Angelus, as the conception of the mind as the voice of an animal, as writing. And here there are four principal beings of the universe; hsc truths and essential elements of the world; hsc those animals with eyes, as the Scripture is woven, front back full; for their eyes are the cognitive faculties which you have heretofore praised four infuse; the divine mind is the eye; Angelic movements, human reason; fen Modidi-fus is the eye of both animals. From these Ulmis'! An- It is clear how the Angel at the end of the fpecie, gdi, image; man verb with fpecie, image booms he does not understand For the angel, as we have said, He sees God as pure, perfect, without any end miftione, fine lpecie, image, as mun given, 8c the brightest Sun, in which he detected no image, no shadow, a cloud, or a fog. But here with the force the first of knowledge escapes into God, reci pi and turn in God, it is done, as God from the Angels ca inflection and conjunction in some way he is said to be a shadowy person, he is portrayed as very polite fpecies and effigies entered into the limits outlining For this is a portrait of Ange He was in the divine power as if he were powerful bjeCto reception, 8tinfitio. Under this so that Angelica's effigy, image, and shadow God's grace, human understanding, desire Angelic intelligence in a fruitful place He escapes God: for the human intellect who, angelic, rushes to God, God fpeculatus per fpeciem, five Angelica image, he sees God through the eyes of Angelica I saw, and the shadow of the image through which Dens not the light of our understanding shines bright, and by lunar fpeculum fub shadow, 8t in with the formation of the maculofs of the face of the moon we see the issue is demonstrated. Moreover, it is clear from these Why were you exhausted by the rays of the sun of the world? in the eyes of the most ancient and weak of us the rum dulls the line, and dulls it, in the tan then, that I see him by no reason untwisted we are able to make the case more interesting; Luna verb tempe with the fire of the raft, and with the gentler light of the fire fe to us harmless obtutu fpeCtanaam pree happy For the Angelic Sun understood us, viz. gium But the moon, what you know objects by nature, and reprs- it is fanned, in accordance with the fineness of Isfionevi is given The living sun is the son of all Angels. licsfcient, contemplation; Moon the verb vibible is also related to humans fpe- for the angelic The divine Sun is clear to the mind, pure, and fpeculum end spot j end image: the human word is unnoticeable and the moon is spotted a clear image More to be said in this place they will speak of the wonders of this inviolable Light understanding of the threefold world, of the Archetype issue, and rational results. True when all these theologians noftrs Hierogly- Theologia we would have returned to the phies, here only by the way Hgrosb- Epichirema VI. Of the light of the intellect. That you may see the neck of all intellects mutual gation, done in the first place iffumatqueipfum one, that exfupe- with overflowing goodness beyond faith in another quo that the genera of natures flowed, gradually de- a lap, as it were, by degrees from the perfect by imperfect natures to iinperfeCtif files defluxifle, St finally fail in the first material, which is almost nothing it seems I will give the washed away of things, intelligible indeed, in the soul indeed natural In the first, then, before fpecies in the manner of most of one's neck are sung In the fertile, five understanding through the manner of many ideas in the world in which I will give a model, and intelligible first. How much further down the order they will obtain the things of the world, but more The weak-minded fail first, and from one let the multitude fall, and the manner also the fus of knowledge is more changeable, part they are exposed to the sun; how divine in mind Maximus Tyrius Phiiophophus reCte He compares it to the sun, whose power is one fi- mul intuitu ceili, St terrum opera omniazugms ft to paint widely; a human word, he says, mUtud: in the manner of travelers
and at different times the universe region lest they pass But he is earlier than Pla to the Parent of the world, and the Worker cat Fed does not state the name, which does not know at all, nor betrays the color whom he did not see at all; not at all He exhibited a degree of strength which he had never seen before tigers But the whole from the whole, I did not snow empty, and in faith against the Hiabitur mind, who then at last was afraid to see her it is perfect, and is reflected in the present day; when it is straight and strong, like a battle line He threw that most cunning piece into the light to concentrate, whose affection is not obscured a man was never burdened with fetters you are too much removed from earthly things; without drinking near the border of Tyria, ears to the ground na, 8r fenfibilia proftruat proftruat, feque I have just flown in with the truest reason. and commends it to the government of divine love. They are Three Clc. understand nations Medas intelligence let us hum who becomes Metdpbyficd of Light Umbrrf
They are, therefore, claffes of intelligent things the first three, God, Angel, Soul. they are powerfully intelligible to us of faith, in order that they may be understood adu, he makes: &ficuti God understands nothing by scorning; fed by the light makes the colors adu viable they are not the way of understanding everything in faith ipfo, it is easy to communicate seeing, so understood, the agent makes adu in He does not understand those intelligible things: and it is done it distributes the mam into the lower gills. The medium of fine light emits colors from the power of vi- The order of the angels captures universal ideas from the books that are still alive while in part, too to the higher Good, and distributes to the lower, their wealth, live matter in me and through the light of God the effulgence of all things, and in the organ of the villages, live in the eye the divine, draws and leads the same species of things; so the agent who is understood does all things and understands. Soul; the rational grasps the intelligible things while they are in the mind of things ferocious fspecies, into lower images that are not diftri- poffible to be understood from they are Here: all through Light Shadow; removed from all contamination We explain the reasons. These things, then, he gave thee power: put four dung over the eyes. Imagine; nor does it make any use of the heart first of all the divine light; ray from fuperna i porei minifterio, fed lola fui prasfentia co- Mentally confused. Secondly, fpecies live makes the lore more viable; so understood. ideas, and the methods of creating things in these tongues, as it were, in a moment ipfo radio like exifting lights. A third time, and with such speed in the majority, that Minds, which; let this ray flow continuously between diverging rapid con- flowing, fufeipiant Fourthly, and with desire: the mind is called upon to either sacrifice itself, or iftius so fertile a ray of fertility is able to proceed. Whence Plotinus understood The powers of the mind, and the virtues. First, while this reason is not in- for that divine Ray, as he aptly calls it, the Light of wondrous dexterity The highest unity of God is rejoicing, it is always reflected in the faith of thee. profuse, and uniform, therefore idea He offers the only one to the divine eye; led her inte fim through the many stages of the middle course to generate a shareable bus. Qub au the idea recedes more from the divine unity, this takes on a more complex form, in coloruin miftura delining using line a center produda in ipfo ef individuals, re but yielding further, into several portions extended Therefore, a simpler radius of ca more pious minds; the rest, however, where they decline more, ed more complexly. Epichirema VII. Rational Light, Lhantajlica. Antus is in shadows and gloom hells for the imaginative faculty; soul part, as it were; or their nature; do not be angry fint, let him think that he is free to pretend and fall into abominable errors would cast, if the light of Reason did not provide the light I rebuke this wrongful attack shouting sharply, rebuking as if from a fpe But as to the mode of understanding! he would restrain his body: for these things are in another matter in regard to the hidden apparatus of human minds in the deeper theater of things
Mumm, Plotinus made him burn, bringing the empty stones with the inborn ra- around the divine asaodo a kind of indivisible; It contributes to good fortune, soon and good promotions yet for me a fertile recdTum imitated by intellect, at first, and because of his affection for the bearer, when he finds a sharp crutiny, the lower powers are also nothing the fummi Boni's ftability to fail, mu the shadow of the ability seems induilfe, in which nevertheless, the soul's faculties are wasted; ce teres of the one nature, and a worthy image of the pul cherrima femper shines. Why three the particular wings of that agent should be understood as if fspecies were found by the majority: In flow of course: Abftrahere: and intel- to produce a legible species. The influx is made by from first to last by itWxvny Z Ab- ftradio from the lowest to the fumma by cruvStcriv An intelligible production of fpecies to the grandmother of light, and of colors, ipfo Philofophus tefte he continues, in this comparison. Just like that light makes the colors that are vivid, which in abyffo hid from fefe not the power of life they are bilious, so that the agent who is distributed Reason, then, thought true understanding explain something more broadly such, and which only to the imagination of the soul rolled through the ipfam to the genius lis, universal charadejrhyms to the part he turns his eyes to each side; these things with them clearly composing, in which they differ, in which let them agree, differ, and judge; so much so as his difeurfum, or iffi Metaphyfi per let them bring the circular with faith; and instead things are different in reason, also different in name let him be strong. Indeed, as long as the smoke swirls, and is constantly reflected in faith tur, it appears properly rational of the whole con- the goal of turning center of treachery when it comes to the nature of the intellect it takes place, the intellectual ipfamet is made; ciim to imagination, animal, phan Reason emotional JfytU rnagnie Book Epilogfts. taftica, to make it clumsy from the previous ones he puffs out the true circles of the difcurfion neither in imagination, nor in intellect If the fubjedtis were to be invested, fed po you are in the Middle Reason. For with Intel the ledtus becomes puffy, the addition of the snow is not puffy it produces a kind of purity from the world of the Sun mo flows, while the beam of light fuses in these He lowers the blows; for he shines through the light and life-giving quality, orbs in the sky rum breaks through the intermediates, and nature crossing the star, through the air at last, and the foreign elements in each of the universes let the center pass through; yet another movement a. It has no coelefti, nor properly ad reached this corruptible country, fed occurs only fertile radiation he will dig a continuous stream. They are therefore, indeed, in the Intelledtu of all things the idea of the blind; perfeiftiflimx, most inflatable; fed because it is not properly moved nor does he make a circle by diverging, ipfa Ra Intelledtus radio percuf- fa, and from that in no other way than from pun- dto line, five rays from the luminous body it is born, the first afcenfus, and then defenfuc leading the woman, in which surely and for the first time it appears that the entire conversion ru dimentum, such as in a circular line flexed From this principle, afcenfus, defcen and the fulcrums of the first, as we have said, are done in the length of fblarri, fertile rela tion, which; it becomes a sequel to the same com mune pundtum, five principles: and that The transformation is therefore called metaphysical mouse, and depending on the understanding, that although Reason becomes the nearest caufa, this yet not by reason, as reason is, perfected. , let's see j fed to what extent from additions ra- thmtdfu. god, and his mind is tormented by lupine. In Fantafix fenfu verier converfionum um some bras, and some rudifuculos types you would have noticed the foiid circles not indeed because of excessive skill, that he had come to understand that he had come, fed because for although the motion he defends it, and also composes it in various ways, and let him divide the world, but this is by no means con comes, intervening in the snow Reason fpe- The mobility of the others is in vain let him conquer thy weakness, and break it: for she
the formulas of things to be added partly from fe ipfa puffing, partly drawing from deep, brings the light of intelligence into imagination, as the Moon, the body of the foreign planets, and the rays of faith into the world of this dement tarem: whence Reason produces Fantasy, And by the same rurfus is affected next to divers fpecies of objects, by which he was understood the light abftradtx, and by reason of fubla- these are spent deeper, until they are in the world after all He took out the concrete slide, and left it furtively I smelled ethereal, and I blew the fire of the Jimplics. And so that divine ray from the Sun in the sternum flowing continuously from the mind through soul into nature, and matter into it becomes covered with shades of color, in which the tan he imagines some shady strangers only children, like the light of colors he represents the images in the object fpeculo: for from the pure they gradually become impure, while they are contaminated by their opposites; whence ex united diffipatx, from the universal language lares, from inflatables, completely inflatable, and in vain, they require the purity of the priest, and raptured from the low to the high, Iphius of a great Devil, as the Egyptians do I will speak, Amoris, namely as much as in the fire is done, the rurfus emerge. Accordingly and the mind is a settler of the lower world, because commerce, and the conversion of intelligence of nations, partly of a flighty body, ceu a fugitive from fate indeed he smokes through the fenfum of his mate then the things that are polluted by the filthiness of things cqlledtas by phantafia, cleans, that through the sieve of rational power; binds with the idea of a universal mind, to enjoy and I was already the fairest Ffyche com with the tresses of her husband, with the help of Cupid cet, where potanedtare, nepenthes invoices, and ambrosia, and menfif gradually flowed it is made of wood. And so the soul of man reflected in the weakest rays bem ex defcenfu in the multitude pend re- he was born What is the effect of this conversion ram also in things fenfibilibils image nor will you; turning, carefully offering, how from that world, the largest, or rather dia meter, through a narrow hole in the object and the wall of those cones is a pyramid let him form the lem, and in the ipfo hole the wall tis the nearest fic of the oblique ray in the continuum they are brought out, so as to be completely transferred, 'equal in what proportion did I deprecate, what a long time ago they collected, in the oppbfita of another wall let the plain fall, and the globe shine they refer to the inferiority of the Sun; use a book by the fruitfulness of this fuse it is oftenfum; so much fane larger, quantb hole lon I am going to say that the ray is transferred into a continuum gantur, it is easy to be equalized with the solar group the amplitude is equal to the distance from the cone they will fall first, and they will be washed away by the Sun. Thus, the influx of ideas from the fuprema life into derived the lower, from the narrowest of the maxi I am reduced to a particular narrowness, until reflected from matter and bodies again into human hearts from the tongues universal fadris, of a pnftina size they are Epfl Epichirema VIII. How the light of the creature to the Creator to be united letapjyjicd of Light and Shadow. 8o fuppreffa, with which, as if in a furnace, ar- The teeth of love are baked by the divine fire of the anus ma, and a little of earthly affection tim stripped in every way, in the greatest glory He infuriates the spirit, and radiates the divine faith No mortal makes the Sun, as it may be, wrong. Similarly, little by little, Diledto with crooked eyes, the snow is the middle in-1 the obstacles of earthly desires let him come, whose opulence I tell the darkest darkness, through the exaltation of the will enter Hujufinodi's verb means vi- Then the divine conformation, while to him a small tree dyed with different colors for in the midst of the fumes of the pleudor the force in- Will, to the darkness of the inhabitant it is broken, so that the rays of the sun shine brightly. Vi- miliariffimum cluster outside confiften- trea verd in this quality, first ex ashes, and sand to the rest through the most ardent fire in the furnace has been purged for a long time, va and applied to the police, at last in the fub-
the most clear, the most limpid, ae the purest riches rob the least. No the purified soul escapes in a difficult way to the union of eternal light, and enters the heat gin, which nothing near the Divinus Dionyliurn intelligence of you Accordingly, it is raised by Transfer. the charitable support of God, as Theo. matioani. the logs speak, without understanding; that and there the will, having been confounded, is forced to make a new decision a kind of padto by incitatiffimunffedtnm to be carried to God, to be loved by him, as fponfa j to love him, as the only beloved, from him I held him with the most tender cubits I will press the single fpem ori fuaviffime matter, finally, in the ineffable reason of the eternal light it is something else than to be joined, not given, to be conquered in the purest light of the unaccomplished God. of strength, and uncircumscribed, and poured into it with great care, to flow out, to transform interminable, fuperfluentiffima of the fullness do, fplendidiflima beauty, ferocity in fine and sweetness of light asterns, which lu that which is made is united to the mini terno, ra tion Breathing soul, contemplative to the divine darkness, when in it he becomes a part of the teleiedtiva, 8t affedtiva, those which St Intel ligencia, he looks in a certain way in the sky la Diledtum, while him through the streets, Sc pla teas, that is in the molds of created things they hide each one in rows like scotch he struggles with it, and he is surprised who nevertheless it is so well protected that it cannot be looked at Let the soul be looked upon. And so he was forced to lie down before the door of the dark house, or ady so, and there, with a cry, a groan, a whimper; with a wish, with repeated caresses to show his unfaithful face every so often, and that what he intends may more easily be affected, undressed by the love of earthly things, fleeting and even the pleasures of the lawful, per- fatta from resignation, carnifquetitilla and the Will, united to God, enjoys it. Tura but intelligence, the lingular deity's fa vore, and ipfa is summoned to the farthest adyta, and as if the Holy Sands were dim Entering the temple through the deepest part of the temple a cloud of prehensible fog is driven away, ad Ivy eternal throne of light inftar glass of the world, purged of every turbid fact, led, imbued with new splendors there And since no one knows that light to hide, and to bear the incomprehensible he can, the soul is infatuated in this infatuation the glass of the most lucid and the most brilliant co lore is woven between the Sun and the soul between of the medium, at last untwisted into infinite light carried by the eye. And where is she of the highest degrees contemplation, so many affections ex- mm. requested by wishes, celebrated with so many praises, so many names covered with envelopes, so many things represented by the fymbols: which use the greatest m In this mortal life I conceived the benefit of the soul exercise, and corporifcaftigMonem profuse divine minions, is communicated. Vvvv SPH4I they are a shadow with vehemence ttei Miftia of the world he drank THE MYSTICAL SPHERE SIVE TROPOLIS LIGHT AND UMB U A ratione Deum pr In- telledum, that is the light co- gnofcerc poffimus, in pre- It is difficult for those who retreat; re- lllat, as how the same By will, that is um we receive what we know, and we receive it let us rejoice at the stern; thus through the elements by some degrees to the ethereal and proceeds with the divine grace trust, in which corruptible motion, matter: left to the fordes, only divine far superior to these, and far more worthy ra fpeculabirum. Therefore God is light, light eternal, from the mind of Trifmegifti fphsera is, Bounded by all the boundaries, no defies nited with menfurations, as whose cen trum everywhere, the circumference never fphasra of infinite light, whose ray is three nose of glory, five splendor of the divine Word, ra God reflected in faith, that Spirit of love a From the Father and from the Son, proceeding from eternal origin, whose ancient axis infinite ma I will stretch out my strength, the horizons are infinite the diffusion of goodness, Meridian; the equator justice; Zodiac of twelve figs of which, buy twelve divine virtues nations, which theologians call attributes from the ineffable source of divine light as the whole
dem aftinobolifmi flowing forth. firm the mind of all the five possible things, five impenetrable ideas of the divine mind, patterns, creatures, in fine, for all as the wrath of God, as Rambam teaches, the shadows of some owls. To this and thus the model of the mythical sphere he is the chief of the twelve planets in a circle of trees the admirable difpofition which the influx let me be fruitful and enjoy my eternal life It contributes to the world of souls. which that they may be understood, it must be done, this fen- Ipacio, the reliable machine of the world of the triple as if to blow it into three zones: the first of which is the world, five fpacium de ceases to fuble; of the shadows, the kingdom of Tud. The second world, five fpacium fidereum, of light, of brightness, and the hiding place of beauty, the third world Empyreum, five Firmamfentum, innume a multitude of lights. Pri the peace of the world, Ecclesiastes He refers to a warrior, of various shades, the clouds and the eclipse fumma inftabilitate conftantiffimum: lu- two, and the soldier, the temptation, the trial and the kingdom of snow; where the good is the bad, the happy tri- bitter with sweet, so sweet they are, that you were nothing for nothing, nothing to be puffed up for sends to the inhabitants. But the world is lyde the guilty feptem fspiritual charismatum, ve I was the host of the planets, I was the flow of my: Immediately this soldier Ecclefias world It denotes the weak and the strong region: and through the moon of the humid re-. ginam indeed, what else is denoted, nifi the life-giving bath of the Baptist, which wash your minds with water from all pollution atoned for the chin, through faith in the truth, se- are they placed on the third side of the light? ! What is Mercury, the force of things strengthened by Mercury I draw something else, the snow-maker of the chrifmata my-. the future, by which the soul of the king lived through the water on the contrary all the adversaries were powerful nations, strengthened and fortified? By The sun, become something through another, certainly bright sun Sacrofandum Euchariftise Sa is represented a stream of life, a spring of grass, dew bur, food and nourishment for souls, the third ray of light, the Sun of the mental world we shine, the grace of all gifts and in the midst of the spiritual penury, in which man nia are animated and strengthened, whatever they may be a ray of such immense light, and they have received the ftudiofa difpofition. What? but through the uniform deformation of the Sun's light something else is indicated, the snow of this soldier Ecclefias divine fplendor, in which are di- thanksgiving; Behold the deformity: as The church of God is afflicted by the right hand of God around variety of data; and the spirit is the same; behold uniformity: divisions of miniftrations they are Behold the diversity: but the same at home nut Behold the identity: and the division of works of the nations; behold a multitude: the same green The sun, which works all things in all things; behold unity Divine charity is also uniform it is foolishly Sxturmis we take giAiactis tojfiicus fhropolwa Lucis Vmhfce, let us all reach the same happiness evehat is deformed, when some Ar cturi, Aldebaran, Bafilifci, Spikes of the Virgin, Cattoris and Pollucis inftar, some as the first, the others as fertile, the third, the fourth, fifths of magnitude, and fplen- make it easy. But the only Sol Chriftus prepare the only Moon of God, of this mythical world presephides Through Mars, penitence is suggested to us Sacrament, in which the soul of a certain Mars strengthened with strength, war with the world, God bolo, 8c indicates one's own flesh, sin rUm monftra true brokenness of heart expu gnat, the rebellious members of the body continued Caftigatione fubjugats fic tandem om lest the devices of the Devil, be led by the light of Faith the conqueror labors. By Jupiter, of dignity and power the benefactor is beautifully indicated to us by the Order ms Sacrament, by whose influence you can dominion, perfedfca JurifdiCtio in ani the administration of seas is granted. Finally, through Saturn, the Symbol of Death lum, rede denoting the extremes of UnCtion there is the myth, which through the false oil un- We are next to the diffusion of man happy and blessed soul
is placed What, finally, by Friday, the snow of the Mother the sacrament of admonition is marked with quaconju gibus fub perpetual individuality: the life of the you in the propaganda of the people, faith, love, piety, 5c honor Ritual grace is founded? We have seen the mythical planet rum into the fublunary world: already the influence of the empire world briefly also we would trust Support of the Zodiac fpeCfcable, support us triumphant denotes Ecclefia, the kingdom of Saint Thomas, the kingdom of grace and light where there is no mu tation, or the overshadowing of vice, where neither night, nor day, fed the light of the Lamb it is Under this Zodiac the Sun juftitias, lu The sight of Paradise is constantly running through the various colors the breath of the Beatitudes, by twelve the figures of the zodiac, the figures in whom grace rum, Sc charifinatum flows in the lights. Yes by Aries the man-footed animal, and to the west A martyr is depicted as a martyr breath: through the laurel the breath of the Patriarchs, and of all those who are in the Lord's vineyard I work with great enthusiasm for the honor of God They worshiped the gods: through Gemini the breaths of God of those who wrote with a voice like two The wings of charity towards God and the neighbor astride the way of light asterns for all they opened their teeth; whence the wind Foruni emerges marked by Cancer: by The lion of the Apophtolic men, who of the divine word roar, numbing the world from the old the life of death to the light of faith runt: through the Virgin, what else? the breath of the stained Virgins is hinted at, who fe ipfos caftantes for the sake of the kingdom of heaven rum, beget fruit by voluntary fecundity they run their lives eternally, each with women undefiled are brought forth the Lamb And he said to the King, And the blowing of the prince of the blessed is understood who, in this world, approach the juftity with piety bringing forth the divine light of worship to all They procured hearing and encouragement, through Give back to the scorpion to repent who in this world of the voluntary body and the caftigation of the limbs, and compun ction of the most ardent heart, laurel and they took the light of life: through Sagittarius what else is denoted, the snow of the Preachers breath, which the hearts of sinners divine spring two arrows penetrating into the thigh of these give they ruled, and as if they had hunted the strongest the thing, the fur coat, the vineyard Lords immune from all contamination did they agree? Through Capricorn ver6 is denoted by the breath of the contemplatives, who di vines climbing the rock of contemplation snatched away by the sweetness of the divine word, diffused with rays of fire, horns appear from the face of the horn the strength of the Lord's fermon. By Aquarium The breath of the anchorites is depicted, who in This world is narrowed down, afflicted, and going about with their skins, in their follies wandering, I was uninhabited for a long time they have been touched by the fountains of profuse tears. Finally, through Pifces, what else, the snow crowd that of the blessed, greater than any other god It is rare to be able to contemplate those divine things three laurels overhanging the ocean phat, and lights for the meritorious shared with each one's portion And here is the mythical zodiac of twelve twelve gates with twelve names the tribes of the sons of Israel in the Apocalypse God's tabernacle was touched with man with them: whose lamp is the Lamb, that is the Sun of Ju- the writings of Christ. Moon Deipara twelve crowned with flowers, that is to say, twelve potsherds surrounded Stars, Sandti, who fi- cut the sparks in the reed; woe Judge the clay divided into twelve faiths they will be nations, and they will dominate peoples, and their Lord will reign forever too much So we saw the mythical Zodia when It doesn't show anything anymore, it's snow as pradticas some rules from Light Shadow let us deliver the fumes, to whom we have come out of the darkness that admirable light of comfort to the Sanato let us be able to emerge. Vvvv z Regu- xArtis Magna Book X. Epikg&s. Tropological rules. The smallest shadow emerged from the shadow into the light a nation, perfected from the other side of the Light, from the new it flowed out, it was joined. Rule I "A suffocating view of the world. Dionysius the Areopagite sharpest theologian, light with Templating the ternary, he asks where only we God, who is neither intelligible
not reliable, nor anything at all is it intelligible, can we know it? Perhaps we will truly say, we light ourselves three times for from his nature, as he was incapacitated, 8t in an incomprehensible darkness, covering everything not to know: fed from creatures om nium ordinatiffima difpofition, as from ip- fo produda, certain images, fi- nulftudines of divine iphius exemplars giving priority to the fact that everything trans- it shines, as if through a certain beam of light we aim at the most eminent of all vacation, and in the cup of all. Therefore and eternal light is known in all, and far from all, nay, by the light and shadow, that is, knowledge and fire rantiam, God is known, and he is better St. intelligence, St. reason, St. notion, 8t touch, St breath, opinion, St imagine tio, name, St. everything else; and yet not which is understood, is neither said, nor not is threatened, and there is nothing of those things are not known in any creature there, 8t yet all things are in all things, and nothing in nothing; from all, all it is known, 8r from no one. Why? and if from God we say bring back the light and from the fubftants it is celebrated by all, St He is praised according to the analogy of all, ra tion, of which he is the Author. By ignorance then, five fog is also known, fertile her, which; foolishly understood it is a union. When the light was understood fruitful, withdrawing from all beings, then, releasing St. Feiffum, he joins Ful- the gentlest rays Whence St there hnper- fcratabii the depth of the slope; to him nature I said nonsense, of all things too I knew her: for the light was incomprehensible henfibilis omnium effedliva of things, indif- the fulcrum of all harmony and order caufa; 8t femper the ends of the former containing the principles of fruitfulness, St one uni- they protect precisely the female ones, fed various; , as gutmoXi immense beauty in the variety of mimatcr would shine perfidiously, when everything no matter how varied they were, they were not pure fenft experience of moisture; it pleased the Creator, ta- neZl- to create an order for the variety, so as to an order that is ipfa beauty washed away the fimul would shine in the sun, ma of the lowest, of the lowest of the worst con linked harmoniously into one beautiful world they would conspire Therefore, the ratio of each member to each, St to to then, it is ordered by the Order of all in matters of men, both greater and less by creating a beautiful world; at the end by which nothing is ordered, nothing is difpofited they would expunge everything that was awkward. And here enlightened by knowledge to the astonishment of that eternal grace; the light approaches nearer: which when it becomes vapor as Ecclefiaphticus says, of virtue Maj effa tis God's favorite, understand his whole current receiving capacity He is surprised at the matter, St. is inflamed to tell bilious to the smell of running that he should take him who was near, without doubting him With this fpe joyofa is strengthened, St is increased Curfus' soul; the body, which it carries around, and the idleness the fastest, which; it reaches from end to end strong, unable to comprehend; from the body He desires to be bound by bonds of guilt, and friendships of the flesh he renounces the bonds of law; nor die he fears, as long as he is immortal of the divine let him grasp the fruit of wisdom, always Rule II To imitate the properties of light proposing? "God is perceived by the understanding" from the Blessed, St Triple m long, straight to the travelers through the contemplation of God unite, rule tis directed by a ray; by its reflection, the tribes from the faithful; by being rejected by the unbelievers, The first no-intermediate opacity cheat compar- in the Light of lights it will be cut off. according to by effecting the beauty of the divine light dus, St creatures, which are worse of God, as if through the bars of the soul presents to the hundred. Thirdly, by false friendship the shadows of the dino, as if in a scree, and um He demonstrates the ignorance of his brothers. How much, then, is the soul of contemplation? may God be cleansed from all the imperfection of the shadows he was more ready, so that the union of the central light he becomes nearer to the divine: St. carved from ashes, St
let the spring be the union, and the harmony of the sand becomes the most splendid glass, shining trusting chram For when this world is pure and thick; so St body of light obltacu- cher effe ought, St his parts not the dust of the ashes of penitence, Sc of mortification in- Light for properties amm& ap fold Tropological Light in the furnace of divine love, it renders the divine light the most important, and to receive favors of divine light fimarn. Hascfubjedfum, to whom it belongs, gra then, beautiful, useful, recommendation, indeed, it makes it worthy of admiration. In bea- You are indeed light and glory; s in travelers htmen of faith, both of whom are made of ani but it is gone, no words are in vain, to whom you are despicable by fate. For this in the anus ma Sun's inftar shines with such beauty, as the beauty of the whole world compared to him nothing happens; for by what means to God, and to man with them a little bit of smoke, I nifi through a living faith, by which I will build it up Cabfaciiv Do we ftrui Hierufal daily? This light vh of the light, lest the soul be heated by the power of heating, and he cries, rather than to his neighbor or exhortation, or he will communicate by shining an example. Imbued with this light, he was rich, not fat, and light, no filthiness of the medium, no fetus matter, or untrustworthy mud, and between sin rum remains foul with ver facies femper the same, light in no diminution, or in quinate Whence and the other is reflected in the light of the shot become, that as light, becomes rich to all, no- in need of love; so rich, while worldly pomp, and divorces from triumphs tis fe ipfo content, he lives beatufqite. Light again, that he is invincible and indomitable; so is the light in the water: for it is not so great fog, which is dispelled by the light of a guide; not that there was such a need that it would not be necessary; nor any agent created, that it destruere pi. ffit, according to that of the Divine Paul: ppujd will bring us from the charity of Christ, As light diffuses itself in a moment, so does ani ma sinner cover to the secret light he is so quick with the light by which the shadow of the mind, and blindness are removed. Further, that light propagates in straight lines there, did she, who arose from the juft, And what was the joy in your red heart? ever those who urge the charity of faith, while Coeleftia is meditated upon, by creation, by radio Do they continue to turn to God? for the soul Dionysius brings the line back to be moved. What? another fpecies in the dark room through the only ray of light given to the representation denotes; The snow shines in the soul of the dark light that power of contemplation, which also and no literary or scientific gene of the cultured people, and to the people of San- dtis so much divine light demonftran- there, as all the Dodtors of the world you and your skills seem to excel. This imbued with light among the philofopha trees Philofophia batur Sandtus Antonius. This blessed SJi the universe, or in one light di- mdiK saw the radio, understood. They are
for, as it has been learned, creatures all like some divine light cula: , which while through the wind as if through the holes send out the drones, what a thing in the dark chamber of the heart, all snow in all things, and all things in God really poffijnt? Whoever therefore I belong to the lowest level of contemplation if he chooses to bear it, he will cripple the souls of all recollected within fe I smell the souls of the lame, the heart clean, from purgative of all earthly contagion mnm, because the world is covered with divine light must expose the radio; in the heart for before anything in the world, or in the divine light this will be carefully contemplated. What that all things may be accomplished, return to God the ray of tension is carried, divine; no light light obftaculum through the papfion, imperfect and dtions put shadows; fed as much may the impiffy of the divine light be perpendicular with a large addition, that is the desired coriformity tis noftra with the divine, in fe ipfum refle ctet: of which indeed the reflection will be returned more efficacious, as far as perishable things are concerned the horizon was higher, and with normal force I am born for the force of this reflected light in darkness, or in the least heat
soon the colors will be manifested, that's it, go the sufferings of the inner soul, earthly compare the affidavits they are those whose souls, with the help of the light, finally ex cleaned in a crystal clear glass it will turn out to be very difficult, in which the divine favor ra derived from the gods, unitiqiie, inflammation they will take care of all earthly things riirn confuinptricem. In this fpe- dtabicnr that book Apocalyptic inside taken outside, and bound with clay, whose the page is the Eternal Word, let us strike bens Son, the pen of the divine decree, Chrift's mud ink, names dtorurn praedeftiiatio, caught inside to the glo they were ordered to the court, they were caught outside and rejected. In this will be compared the things that pass away strength cosleftium verb pleasures perpe security, and indescribable delight; who but the mind is troubled, the old-fashioned mass soon He sends a divorce, a filibuster of love, and defies He conceives of the knowledge of things. Whence it is permitted before a mortal man from ipfo defcenfi, and put on an earthly body on the chin, sick, fevent, fquallid, though in the gurgling of the fenfibils a mermaid; once again he raised his head through the air lit, gradually purged from the turbid bundle as if from the region of the Cimmerians in the the light of the ether immigrates; and having penetrated the vault of heaven, already ab free from sufferings and desires, immortal if he receives a lawsuit, Vvvv there: o Art Magna Book X. Lpikgtts Tropologia Lucis Umbra and there with an innumerable shaft of light nodding The light of the lights is faithful it is templated. And these are the things concerning Me Let me tell you briefly about the tapestry of Light and Shadow give us an estimate. Who is more foolish than this Myfti- he had slandered Theology, the Oedipus no- ftn Tgypdaci, Synpigma Hieroglyphfi when he confides in the Theology of the ancients, where from the trophy all the fpedtants were delivered here will find Let this be enough for us in the meantime Metaphyses are by far the most abundant, as nopnet nofTe dilcamus afcenfu something of the mind, as it were, from the shadow into the triple light j fcraninflated; as with the multiple human force-1 We have completed the circle of self-sufficiency, everyone good is perishable and evil is confided, and evil Let us think with faith in the good. We love these things We will hate everything as if it were offered to love, to be happy in adversaries unhappy fuc- I never, however, nor fpe in vain, nor too much fear, nor any desire I will transfer you, or bring out the broken shelves the wall that which shall be done, let us be, and know all things Let us commit to God. Give us this mind Father of lights; from whom I have endured all gifts and charismats from the source of light they flow; direct the divine goodness upon us the ray of yours, that you may be troubled in your hearts bris, perfect in the love of your knowledge mouse Thus all my love, my life, and all might be He relates the beginning to you, and the end to one. Expel these shining rays of the soul of the shadows As your light becomes my light, your light becomes my light. FINISH I N D E AND WORDS Bacchus combiner. Fol. No accident by fe fenfibi Vinegar full of worms. Acu leaves of the first mobile dollri- for often ibid. xAEquinoctiale double, fuperier below. oz The black people are timid. tABluri's eyes %Athne's reprehentation by the trumpet. The air has some opacity. 7X Agriculture time. Agon Sun and Moon, day and night, hot and cold goris Alembic admirable. The inference of the Almucantaras and the Azymuths.
Invigorate the heights of the mountains Light Shadow.
Triple Cryptologic Alphabet, Latmum Grae when, the Hebrew The unknown height of the pole to be found. Altitudes can be measured with the Catoptrician radius. Again, you are numb. The natural alphabet in bundles. Foods are much needed in the soul. Anaclafiica art, Jive Afironomia refralla. Animals excrete black bile. Analemma for conic formations. Catholic. A clock ring. Soul radiation to the outside. An animal by means of a cat, born of intercourse, fucco[anguineo he will Apogee, and perigee, how in jfihara ex be given Chromatographic test of water. Why should a staff be immersed in water? Eagle clock.
Water at the banks, why houses and trees only under the water, as much as it was broken, be given Exhibitions of trees and shrubs. Heavy trees cause headaches. Albert's chemical tree. The Aquapun tree has a wonderful power. Mysterious reasons for offending the time through the fpecies. Arcane Catoptricus. Nature. The most mysterious way to paint pictures. Bows can be carried for the vertical in various ways. uncle To carry the bow with the help of tangents. Again, with help son ibid. With the help of two wires. Catholic method of bows. You will hit the archetype of the world. Arum herb. Archita Columba Armilla Catoptrica device. Aromatica nigra cur falutaria, AJlrologus fenfitive natural inclinations, or cer can you guess? ibid.
Uncertainty of aphirology. fjmpa- thia Aflrolabium anacampticum. Afra, why is the horizon more slow, than at the meridian? the gods seem to be moved. The impiety of the atheists. o Mount Athos Athmofihara size. How heat and fire are produced by friction. I will be the dawn of the world's different breads. The machine stealing the dawn. ibid. The inference of the Azimuths and the Almucantaras.
B Alneorum ellio. Their war with the Scots. The goodness of God. i Goodness of glass, yzS Borax. i Botanical horology. j Botany. Boxwood there The methods of production of adoration. 1J Heat, when produced. The heat file is fake. ibid. Heat, how it is produced by infinitum deris through ra Diosfio! ares zy How heat is produced by fire and the friction of wood cat i C amphora force, it burns in the waters, Campus Lb&Trouoiiv-. lz Candelabrum polylychnium. Canis rabid (i mirus morphus. S Cauflica fpecula A human head on a mountain. Why should I divide heaven into twelve houses? iqz The fyfem of the houses of Goeleflius, the fertile Campanus, And the Regiomontanus, with their various appeals adjustments Calefius acographia. Calefium houses circles on a horizontal plane to bring The sky is red in the morning, why the rains, and the wild beast it should be The difficulty of disposing of coelefia bodies. I will not be a leafy heaven. Cerafi's bark is strange. The craftiness of the heat, and the fear of the fruitful earth Rtolemceum Turkish paper, how is it done? Chromocritic rule. 6y. dfyy Anaclafiic chromatin. j Chromatifmm zoographus, Botanical chromatin. Chromatifmus phamaleon. Chromatifmi in the nephritic wood caufk. y Cincindela's desperation. GincindeU luxt quidfit, sm prgditafint sm light. ibid. Ciri INDEX Circulidomorum ccelefiium. Circles of Latitudes and Powers. i Hourly circles. i The utility of the circles, and how to conceive Circles of decline. The meridian circles in the horizontal, vertical, aquinoBiali, polar defcribere. The triple slats of the circles. Vertical circles. Circles of heights. Gnomonic description of the climate of the whole ori. Def ription of the climate at any level. The climate map of Ptolemy, ibid. Other fertile Neoterics Different climates produce people of different colors. Magnetic horodiBic dove. Color definitions. They will differ in the same light aunt ibid. I divide the colors, and those of the middle, those of the extreme, ibid The analogy of colors with things. those who belong to the golden color, also those who un about appearing? ibid. The colors appearing in the air, and the caufia diverging in color clouds C of the color of the blue, why the sky appears like water. Intentional colors. Try different colors of flames The apparent color test. ibid. The colors of the dawn: and the rainbow. Better colors proved by experiment. The ray reflected from it is dyed with the color of the Jfieculi. ibid. What are the colors that appear on the inside? ibid. The origin of colors in polyhedron, trigon, and Iri glass
Colors caufdnt angular transparent bodies. The colors of the blue green horse are not seen. Capable of birds of every color, especially aggressive.
Why should they not be imbued with a golden color on all fours? dia. A caufia of colors in a chameleon. Why are the eyes of children white? The color is white when it occurs in plants. ibid. Black red color in plants. The nature of the regions changes its color. Color fub hot zone. ibid. The colors of the JaJfiids, which should be What is color in the human body? Men of different colors beget different climates, ibid. C white color, what figmficet in man. Whence is the color in the flowers? The colors of all things, and femen in the ashes. What does the color rofeus mean to the French and Germans? gives Vulpin's color in man. ibid. The color of a man's flaming face. The colors of the eyes are different, why is a man happy with leaves? give ibid. Also, why do people have different faces, ibid. Color of the eyes, difficult judgment. ibid. Different areas produce a variety of colors in the hair nes Likewise, with what water is the color of my hair tent ibid. All kinds of colors [Sal dmmoniaeum conti net Different colors in the stones. ibid. Why colors? things entered? ibid. R E R V M. I owe the colors to certain things tour ibid. There is no perfect color of black or white: they laugh ibid. C colors medium translucent. ibid. A wonderful variety of colors live in silver. White color, how to receive an ace. ibid. Given the color people fantafiicepaint. Columba Archita, Comet what? y The origin of comets. g A barrage of comets faBadTychone. Everything is admired by the narrator. A new cryptology. C ry fi other iron. C ryfi other wonderful horodixis. Crucifixion in Agate. Gnomonic cube. C everywhere so that every precious stone shines, An explanation of the cycle.
He has a passion for the world's work. God is called by the names of all things.
God, man, angel, capable of knowledge. Damon in the glass. Triple drawing, Orthographic, Scenographic, Sciographic Drawing practices. ibid. The light shines on the creatures. How the Hebrews divided the day, and other The calendar days are reduced by the solar fraction things, greater things. To show the confidence of the mountains to the catoptrices. Difficulty in preparing a parabolic trough. Dodecahedron hemicircle. Anaclaftic registration of the houses of the coelefts wars The registration of hundreds of houses in the cylinder. In vertical plane Southern, ibid. Polaris iMiquinoBiali, wherever irregular. ifcid. The house appears to be full of grapes. In order to, with
bus God is the source of light. Dracopolycaphus opsJfieculi
Chus menfurandce reg Echo, what is happening? What is the care of the cliff or the end of the delay? Various eclipses of the Moon and the Sun. The lunar eclipse is the most important term. Methodus PtolemAin Eclipfibus. Ecclesiastical Hemerology. Egreffius the idol outside the fpeculum. What is aphirological relief?
EleBionum oportunl infiituendarum Sciatherka various ibid. EUipfeon defcriptions. Ephemeris Ecclefiaftica. Epitome of the entire Anacamptic art. Epigrammata in afirolabium (tnacampticum, Ripped off Examples of them, quifu they contracted diseases. TABLE OF CONTENTS
FAbee properties. The root of the fern has the shape of a starch brings Flammma why diverfi-colors. The flame is difficult to extinguish. --harmless. --only an accidental change. Why aren't black flowers given, green ones? they are not imbued with art in the black color. the plant's colors change from one to another run The focus of the cauflic, where it is located in the A mysterious source born from the Sun.
ibid. ibid. acquire
The shape of the starch varies. er fiqq. The form of things will not be the place. Increases and decreases of cold and heat, Arina's imagination. Gnomonic Anaclafiica. Gnomonic antiquity. fumaria rested A wild imagination. Gnomonic Anaclafiica.
Cjnonomiclobi's new device. The basis of the Gnomonic Triangle Horogroup Index of gnomonic afirolabiorium, fi ve fiylus. Grinbergen's board for the new profe&iva cceled. How the Hebrews divided the day. A certain herb called Cholagoga. A black herb.
Bile refers to increasing bile to be expelled Heliocauflica Heliofcopia wonderful. Hemerologium Ecclefiaflicum. HeElimorm quarter what i Hifioria Horodittica. Mira of the fosmins monflriparis. Hifloria apparition tdoli. The name of the clock is J e s u Horological cross. Lizard various column pentatycla, hexacycle f erf, A universal watch ring. cylinder for the whole world, or
Clockwork cone blown. cryphialline group cylinder concave quadrant Cynocephalus there;
ibid. ibid. Hotologaflatua of all kinds. A quarter hour. The clock liter at umfive charablerificuni. in the handle of the knife. -Oltahedron. Dodecahedron. vertical ibid. when ibid. to polarize -aquinobliale ibid. -afironomtcum declinating from the vertical. f -aflrnomic inclination. ibid. rum cosleftium decriptione, -anaclafiicum vertical. wonderful tetrahedron --Hydraulic. Aquatic. -perpetual. ibid. heltotropic magical. heat ibid. zALquimbliale ibid. Meridians ibid. H clock cycle for the registration of parallel arcs Catholic horology. anaclafitca anacamptica portable into cceleflesdivifa circles. through sacrifice. wheels Botany zoologct. animated Horofcopia catoptric magnetic prodigy Horofcopium prodigyofmn. Definition of the Catholic Horolabis. the law Horodixis exotica. "'exotic planets' Anacamptic schedule. here complex Analemnsatico-geometric horography. Polyhedral clockwork. Tinverfali clocks of various kinds. Mechanics Mantiffa. The whole idea of ​​horography. quadruple method X X X x
ccnfiruUio du- ibid.
horo TABLE OF CONTENTS A hollow cylindrical miverfalc clock.
micycle ibid. the quality of the human body itself brum in twelve fignis conjlitutm let him look back, the shadow is drawn. Horographic rule. . Clocks should be attached with caution because of false reflections I will give Horizontal clock, qt vertical mecography in- fcrtbcnda system Also in the polar plains, mere diano, dqumotliali. Azimuth Almucanta Circles rath, the height of the Sun. Cir the butts of the houses ibid. Hours Planetary, fire unequal. Signs Affinities of the zodiac. Anacampticain horology given irregular qutbufvis bus fuperficies of every kind from the rise and fall planetarium on any plane. portattlia anacamptica in variorum vafo- hollow rum The Horodixes put everything in Jervire's hands. Horolabia decimating from the south, vertical fire pri mario Schedules on any level to outline the inflrument ob-
how do they count the Infula Baleares, AJlrono- I, the Egyptians, the Romans, and others. XI
Humors will have a lot of influence on the mind. Hyofciamt noxious force. Registers of hyperbolas. Anuariusmons commonly known as Gemaro. fiery rain jpetlacula
fever. fituandinova ratio, map txpanja Horofcopium tetracyclum aquindliale. Jlylo at the end of the hour, and the shadow in the middle of the light. The hour is uneven. From the rising and falling of the Babylonians, ibid. (Fanonica. j rum Evangelical -Babylonian how to write. in a hollow cylinder, together with circles bus In a cone, a whirlwind of fire. qj6. In cu I will ibid. In the Pyramid. ibid. planets in a cylinder. aquatic and non-aquatic. I5 aflronomica light projection. How to count the hours in the organ Jit inftitnen-
registration of aftronomics in the clock por- touch of the Muthors, of the Almucantars, do- of morals and clefts. from birth, occa fu anaclaftica infcriptio.
an anaclaflic record of inaqualium. such as correlation The hour is not coming. The Italian hours of the organ are good at any level to drink to describe the ancients with the help of the organ.
Fire and heat, how it is produced by friction li of knowledge inextinguishable. property quidjit. -how it is extracted from the wood. The imagination of all things pitiful. You have a wonderful imagination.
Imaginative force. The image is continuously growing and shrinking. so that from one it is returned fivefold. The fubjecium of influences, or the power of the interior ejfe they want Various optical instruments. Inflrumenti Anacampticus corfiructio. qnaclaftici mefopticifuffldio ratio offer- Vandt refractions. -Cyclote tragomci new conflict why- chs curvis, curved nets they water. Adeptnic conflntciio. the benefit of Azimuthic reflectors. a universal method. Infirnmcntum xilmtic ani aro-azjymuthiCMm. Enclitic Jive declinatory universe do not crush you give j6. ouranometric for various ufu. Sefeqq. Photofciometric conjlruere, ejufi- demquefus They compare the infula remotely. A new discovery. Jupiter Jlellafigura. Where is the rainbow around the lamp? The wonderful contrast of walnut with Tilia. Full of worms. Different types of stones. Conceived of a stone flame. American larch has a wonderful property. Praise of the Sun What happens to the glass lens? the eye matters. (a) presents the species very well. a hollow between two convex ones. A variety of lentils. ii. in a tube collation.
ibid. Len- TABLE OF CONTENTS The goodness of the lentils is different from the nonnife ufu. What do they produce when the lenses are put on glass? ? rncombujtum The place where the image is placed. Catoptric lantern Lr, me n within the waters to be admired. The light of the Holy Trinity. tri-una qua ibid. . how by the heat of the natural fire, It is difficult to understand the longevity of animals. Oflreaea. x6 --reflected d cylinder, or cone (peculiar net cir he casts a bright eye. A bright light. will be lost gr darkness from which all the region participates nes of the world -how it converges to produce um bram how it generates living species of colors. A convex lens imitates the organ of the eye. The composition of the book, and of each of them, is of great quality The quidJit line of action. destroy any horizon. Finding the horizontal line, Clear liquid. The wonderful properties of particular places. To speak secretly with one another how one becomes poor. To find the quantities reflected by the light of the Sun. All things love light, A wonderful experiment of bright humor. Multiplication of light and heat. why the earth is more than dark happy reflex weakness, nature Making a candle of light. fafinal ibid. material storage. ibid. circular projection. definition admirable abilities in producing the old man ra Fublunary prodigies. a wonderful proportion of mifti. nature ibid. body, what is it? the curfew will reflect the seasons of the year. the invefiiganda rule of the amount of the crime. faithful in the Zodiac. wonderful face x -motumfeqmtur lapisfelenitis. a wonderful worker. you will do The zodiac, the sign and the declination from water tore the shadow how to mountlrare pojfit Neither the house nor the steps within the house not the height, and from the meridian then Lunar plant threads. The power of the moonstone is wonderful. thought the experiment of the phenomenon. Lunifequa Ant. The wonderful Achina Catoptrica. of the flying dragon, wonderful for combs. panopticon pantoparaphytic
ibid. -flow mode Lucerna Adagica conflrublio. Luminofa action Unea. The moon acts on pregnant women. let him not fail in curflngulis menflbm. cold how many fingers he fails to pluck, it leads the flesh to rot. ibid.
A double adage. Horographic. Paraflatic i-knitting natural; Albert's magical metamorphosis. Various magnetic devices. Magnitude of Jupiter, and sJMartis. Mechanicus Thaumaturgus. Mecography in clocks. Medallion d nature on the mountain ejfiigiatum. q All the regions benefit from drugs. You want a combination of drugs. nq A selection of medicinal products. . -rerum aBinoboliJmusfiympaticus, antipathy i Sciathericon's medicine for children. yyy The analogy of the members of man with the parts of the world.
The memnonia blew out various strings to the sun's rays.
The trireme of Monsiforma. y1Q short sighted j 2Q The shady places filled with metallic vapors, noxious Miraculous metamorphosis of some animals. Miraculous meteors in the mountains of Peruvid and Chile. The wonderful shape of the globe, the prism, the cone f the pyramid Pt. Wonderful exhibitions of things in the halls and gardens of the Prince etc. yiZ The modes of divergent knowledge of Angels, and of man. What is Morgan from Rheginus? The motion of gravity ajfe&at the motion of light. The curfew of the world is enclosed in glass. y Xxxx Mnn INDEX The beauty of the world, the marvelous order. Analogy of the worlds. The whole world, which wants to be re-discovered by the pipe.
N Apelli's shadow is deadly. Napellus carries the head of the dead with a flower. How does naphtha draw fire? x Every nation has many men who are illuflers. o'clock Nature acts in all fruitful lines male man's death, fl adufli sAEthiopis. animated machines, work Or hours.
Nature is induflria in the fimUura of animals. wonderful prodigies in the straits of Sicily. piblricis induflria infectibus humanis, plan tis, living things, stones. vegetable in a wet distilled experiment to wonder Nothing important, and accidental in the nature of the matter. Shine, shine, ray, light, what? Nixfellata why? I pray for the name of Jesus. All living objects radiate a pattern of light into the world Burning of the eyes, fl vfio. Various illusions of the eyes. Odorative fpecies whether it is conveyed by real ejfe. Oflor nonefl habitusformally, fedfubjebhve. ibid. -jphartee spread. ibid. Everything else is as it seems. All knowledge is a light that protects God. Onoparaflafls what? Organ maker. An organ for hours in water. ibid. Ofmetic virtue fubjeblum, or poflit ejfe water. Oflreacea light Ouranography gnomonic, Horodtblic egg. -Phyphic, large in nature. PiAntoparaflaticum intrumentum. Various interpretations of parables I will prepare the wonderful power of the lenses. Paradox of the shadow of the Sun and the Moon. Paraflagis anadaftica, five per radius His --light-shadows optical mira fl prodigiofa fcenographic. Amazing examples of paraflatic operations. Through the double figs. Phengite phophorus mineral. Phlebotomiafuma suitable. Phonocampanic art. canon lyum of the old fl voice amma- ibid. Phyfa increases when the Moon increases, fl decreases. go Phyfiognomic principle. Piblric nature induflria human infeets, plants, living things, stones PiSloria art. PiStor, how every ejfe poflit. PiSlura is a wonderful image in the Kingdom of Chile. -mirajn Quaiac trunk natural in trunks and roots. ibid. Ouranometric pinax. Different practices of painting vary. Pijces why they shine with motion, Exaltation of the planets, fl trigon. .lights why different colors --moved anomalies advarietatsm ejfeclum useful in the lower world. -termini, carpentum, perfena, gau a long time Magnetic planetofcopium. Different conditions of planes. how the color changes, different forces. Why is the plant green? they have the power of a tree planted with fodder trees cam. The rise of the Pleiades. f Pen on paper how to do it. years I will turn black lead into white. Pontofcopa glasses Phleganographic practice. A gnomonic problem for all mathematicians appetite To measure the depths. Projection of phleganographic figures. .fuperficiei cylin dra. eee in planum. Maniphotism of the lungs. Clockwork pyramids. Pyroparaflajis.
Wandering hollow clocks, What is more important? quadruple clock
Quadrant anaclaflki in the business of Sciatheric adhi to be ashamed Ouanamfint ad'fteganographiam necefaria, How God becomes all things. let the order of knowledge be revealed by colors. In addition to the elements, efl minerals. The rays will not penetrate. reflected in the neceflitas, fl ejfeblm in the world. I N E X THINGS. The entity of rays, Jive, accidentiajint, an fubftancy, Jive bodies, Radiofus Zodiac,
Radius, light, flendor, shine, qmdfint. he sighs. A representation of things. The reflection in the planes of Jpeculis imitates the movement. Solts the diurnal, conical, or cylindrical motion of the Sun proper The reflexive nature of the voice, and the wonderful operations. Etjmon of refraction, and nature, and difference areflexion -the tranflt offices of the center of the world. The refraBa image does not appear in the wrong place. Refrigerants in water air, coal. The refraction of fub in water exhibits all the greater things. inject water vertically at the bottom teeth, makes them appear shorter. Anaclaftic rule to use dioptic djlronomi read yC)J of Chromatijmis. AquinoCtial network. ——ajlronomic. horizontal anaclafticum. ——vertical anaclajlicum. Ridiculous JpeClaeula. Rome, why no Burnus afflivus air, so noxious fint Rofa Geographica. A wonderful replication of Roger Bachon. Rotafiellata exhibition. The arrow in the hands of Apollo in the ray of Jymbolus the rum of the Sun Ammonia salt has all kinds of colors. Salomon's catoptric replication. Figure of Saturn. Diameter of life. The ships were close. S dinner machine. Scenic parajlafes. ibid. jS'cenar rule as to light and shade. The wonders of the scenic apparatus. Scenography, Jive art piCloria. Sciatheric geometry. Sciathericon to explore the heights of ufo. the houses of heaven bile Botanpicum. yyy microcofmic motion of Saturn, Thursday, Jp Tuesday. A universal rule of scientific knowledge. j Seleniaca, jive Lunaria horofcopia. You are self-satisfied. 'Experimentum de Selenite ibid. they will be terminated. The seed is a wonderful force. The multi-colored snake is powerful in its power to injure. The rising of the sign of each Zodiac, and the shadow of the sun you will end at any moment. Describing the lines of the signoruni affendentes on the plane aqumoCliali, ibid. Polaris Vertical. Horizontal the conflict of the triple zone. The likenesses are varied and elegant. Smicrojcopa art, Smicrofcopiorum device. Society of J e s u geographical horogeopium, quo in all the Colleges he will raise his quota, with one view it is monflrated Declination of the sun. emotional utility, admirability. Phenomenal experiment. Accounts. The sun moves around its own axis feBuurn. And the moon passed the generations of fublunary things they are contains all the accounts in Je architeBoniccs. what part of the earth will it illuminate. what Jit? The action of the sun is threefold, direBa, reflected, Jr refraBa. Starch Moon in productive matters. the apparent diameter of the moon. Jemidiameter -diflation from the earth eJfeBus in the Zodiac are not the same throughout the world. damages. praise earth spot -pfroffhara. -ra the gods do not penetrate to the bottom of the deep sea of God y2. --the half-diameter, the amount of difference between the shadows conflict -Jimility with furnaces fu outside. The same cause of dreamers and melancholics fi- r Soni refraBio, reflection, , gg Eating sound. The sound is double. i0; imitates light. qg in the hall decorated with carpets, why not so Jince- US inside the horse is heavier than the same outside the water, ibid. the nature of wood, wood, and minerals Let him go. Temperament of every body ris proposed -does not require the collection of bodies rum c) J whatJit. ibid. how is it propagated through the medium through the real cjfe, anperijfeimentional ibid. It fills me with the species of innumerable things a long time Species ereBio. a wonderful system. h Invert the species how the rebs appear.
TABLE OF CONTENTS SpeEl's wonderful needles through the optical tube. Hydromictic speleaculum. A wonderful cave in the Hermitage of St. Marinus. not the devil's falcon. Sp. etrorum artficiofa exhibition. ibid. Mirrors teach the intensity of heat and cold. steel. the sleeve. that cx these defiriptorumconfElione -flat to a hundred feet cauftica. Proclii such
Hope f. pofitiQ various various caufatprojects. j eo ment degrees to burn com method The efficulous of mirrors. properties of cones and cylinders the form that is conveyed. BC every kind of device. various divisions more effectively of the hollows. convex forces, I actually caved in.
Looking at the mirror, Jive the audience. Archimedes, what kind of caution? Car given to a thousand paffus caufticum. ibid. --convex caufticum. . -inftar (ftupula of St. Peter, quidprajlare pof- --presenting wonders To see a man fly there polydielicum. resin erefifients. septals ibid.
Sphara cojmomctrica conftruEUo. Spheramyftica, predigiofa, horodielica. A magical statue of Solomon. Sunday Steganography praise, profanation. The colors of the stars show a diversity of qualities.
the shadow of their rise was shown. zontali to bring z9
The stars are smaller -width what? what is the same declination? Who are they afraid of? [cop T Abella three refraElionum Jy Erum in aere, Ty- chonis Anaclafiic table of rays incident on wine, oil, glass, courtesy of the Author. Also another from Vitellione. ibid. -declination of the Ecliptic parts from the aquino- Elial The semi-circular arcs of each parallel Sunday Eastern latitude, (fi 06Ctdu. se so Solis, than those of the fixed bras. Altitudes of the Sun. Almucantharo-azymuthica. Hours from sunrise, (fi occafu in the cylinder. Parallel I will bring down the clocks of the sun, Prohyperbole. land Table three anaclaftica. Four times the fetus in the womb. The menfura of the season is varied. Which ethereal earth? The earth is fertile.
The quantity of the earth's crust. A watchmaker. Catoptric polydielicum theater. Hieroglyphic theology. . A new discovery of dyeing images. Amazing transformations. Amazing experiments with transplantation. Triangulum Menograph. Helium to outline. Turkish paper to be done. The most fruitful time. A wonderful force of poisons. Why does Venus appear smaller at perigee and greater at apogee? Green people, as they seem. A wonderful system of visible species. With lively pyramids. Glass slippers. --flat plane-convex Polyhedral glass exhibits a wonderful appearance. The shape of the glass is what it is. -perfeElionisfigna Where is Uffio in the bag? The quality of the glasses tn refraElions. vrma A glass of hyperbole-form, and its glory. ! double, accefia (fi inaceffd. double, rcEla (fi verfa. the figure of the death of Herodias. son known at the hour. Jupiter does not eclipse Saturn. covered the army of plane trees. reEla, (fi verfa, such. reflected in the stool to measure the diflation, the height nes, depths. . RefiaEla, jive the image to life nit real lines, where experience irfignx. yy Shadow
ibid. . INDEX The shade is now feisty, now noxious. origin and definition. —-the letifera of the vemnofar trees. Salutifera falutifera. Paradox concerning the shadow of the Sun Moon.
The difference in shades. utility
Let the places be shaded because the shade is soft and f rigid A voice in the middle of the den. A sharp voice, and an intense red color. sharp, soft and broken, refipondet of white color. ibid. ——heavy and tangled with red, a fiery color it will grow ibid. heavy at the beginning, and defining into acute, ca take color to repopulate. obliquely falling on the wall to reverberate obliquely there deadly they change THINGS intensifies, and heavy correfiponds the color black. and at the end of the fawn color
fpondet radiating into the world is reflected into the world. Red urine. Urine chromatin. indicates the color of the field. Is there something in the Lunar difco fer poffi there? Look at the variety of hominibfts.
ZOdiac quality, condition. --radioflvaria confirublio. .-The influx of Jtgnorum. The Zodiac in the Sciatheric cylinder. my blow Horary Zoologist. The difference between the zones of the air, around the plants, the anus evils from the reflection of the sun's rays. Temperate zone quality from the sun's reflected radiation.
Cold Torrida a scorching variety of effects. The torrid temperature zone. the scorching heat of the powerful geometric caufa. the most temperate of all. temperate, and cold manners. FINISH
I was disappointed rsNsap fpiys! it X
