Athanasius Kircher from Soc J e s u L A T I U M IT IS NEW PARALLEL LATIItumVETERIS then NEW DESCRIPTION Q. U. A Whatever Nature, or Ancient Roman Inge- He has done something to marvel at, Geographical Hiftorico Phyjtco Reasoning, according to the facts Temporumqueferiem is explained to be knocked down Amsterdam At JOANNE JANSSONIUM WAESBERGE, &HxredesEtiZEi Weyerstraet. cbfcixxi. Cmfritihgik. JOHN PAULUS O L I V A Commander-in-Chief of the Society of J e s u work, which is inscribed in Latium Prifcum Novum by P. Athanasius Kircher nojine Society Priest edi pojfe have proved the light, we grant the faculty that it may be commanded in print, It will be seen that it belongs to those whose return these letters are by hand nojlrafuffcriptas, figUoque nojlro munitas damtts Rome; Open JOHN. A little OtlVA. Imprinted, Fr. HY ACINTHUS Libell. Sacr. Palate Apoft Mag.
BLESSED FATHER Clement X BRIDGE OPT. MAX. Athanasius prays for perpetual felicity Kircher from Soc. Jesus At last, most blessed P a t e r to be disappointed by Venerando Confpe&uiTuo, Latium, from the darkness in which that hid, unearthed, and priest- Latium restored to dignity I say, I was futile with the immortality of the name known throughout the world. This is that primseva The seat and colony of the mortal priests The kingdom of Saturn, of the great heroes, Kings, and Cepharus, born of the House of of human prudence, of science, The source and origin of Latin education. Quocl tametfi ar&is anguftifque Terrse to conclude with the limits, so ta- men far and wide of Empire Domina- It spreads the boundaries of the world, as the Orb fua complex in size, of all the glory of kingdoms at a long distance, He has left his desire; live for the great D E D I C A T I O in the multitude of co-gifted things, rietas, flve City iE t e r n; e Splen- pain Magnificence, five fine exa- and a political administration organization con- to be trusted, indeed such, and also great if he confesses it, it is necessary that he indescribable, almost all Hiftori- whose talents and pen have failed; nor should it seem surprising to anyone, who arcane about this City of the Divine He will consider the reasons of the conflict more carefully; let's reveal a few of the secrets of fed. The inscrutable divine providence al- degree, when the nations and the mighty to control the unbridled license of men wax, glorify re, of Kingdoms and Empires I was shunned by new and divine Vir- ConftituifTet to invest in protection Latium besieged the Metropolis of Rome you say to the eyes, that to the ineffable Omni- powerfully fua wealth, demonftran- dam, he was chosen by almost all; that in the same, the eternal whether or not the tribunal was uncuffed He would place the rock of Christ's faith: un- of course It happened by nation, that I might have been only begotten, of the Eternal King to the Orb of the Earth the wind DEDICATION wind, the city would be separated, as it were I will speak with the Divine Lion, be you ignorant responsible for the implementation, with the pasne o He would dominate all nations nations were seething with errors, great- that here it seemed affumpfiffe Religio- because he rejected no falsehood; and therefore it was not necessary, as in this matter The kingdoms were confederated into one Empire, and have met this pa&o the preaching of the universal refers to the peoples, whom one would hold the government of the State. Whence Little by little, Rome became the Lady of the Nations lutiferous Chrift's faith, fuppreffis Cse- lighthouses on the necks of Tyrants, and the defiance of power was cast down and crushed who had been the mother of pride and error, she would become a handmaid of humility, and a disciple of the keeper; and to such an extent that Rome is a nation of fans cla, elected people, Royal City 8c Priestly, through BeatiPetri's faith cla, he would betray more widely, the Divine Religion, as an earthly dominion. Although for many aucla vi&orii, and Dominii
I was fortunate enough to rule the land and the sea brought forth, than that of the Christian religion the peace of Phthia was fubjected; it is less, that Re- and Caepharus' ambitious contention he rested, than that Chriftiana hu military DEDICATION soldiers by the faith of Christ who affluen- tiffime, the Gospel throughout the world I spread my legs, he got it. Why did he pretend to be like that? I deserve B e a t i s Yes, Father, this, whatever tan- then it is done, from La t i o work, Sacratiffimo NominisTuiSplendori (that ipfotempo- in the matter, by which I hope the world will be happy, from per- the ancient famine of the other Romans liavix dimenfo femeftri fpatio of time to the stupendous and applauding world, from Prac- elevation to the dignity of Cardinality, soon Pontifexin ApoftoliciculminisSo- the day you will be exalted) Quiutilegitimus Lat Sc Romze You are poffeffor, so I also proved Divine with the difpofition of the teeth in the throne of Blessed Peter Succeffor non Coeleftis duntaxat, fed Sc The earth's power in binding that having obtained the keys, the lon was much wider and the boundaries of the Tuse Jurifdi&ion ex- tending, I will not say to get fed or fpe- indeed he could rarely. True, do not be a the size of your world I preface the larger interpellation, the Summa I shall think that I have obtained mine then of wishes If You, who is Wisdom, Virtue the bus of the heroic, and not even of the grandeur Thoughts of the Most Glorious Name Yours DEDICATION Your fame has already filled the globe of the earth, this little month of thinness you will not disdain to hold me, and be with me you will suffer at Tenonnihileflb. Farewell, Blessed Father. Goodbye Christ's World Hope Support, God, Ecclesiastes of faith and finally Ti b i, in the flowing starch happiness Dabame CollegioRomanoSoc. jESu Cal. May
PREFACE the reader A T I U M, the fame of the region ra mark, Seat of the Roman Empire, Mun- di Reunam Dominam, early Sa- pious, heroes, demigods minarium, the Arbiter of the World Kings, Caepha, and the Incunabula take care not to attack, because the argument is to use Hercules' hu- can be said to be worth fearing, so also to dare to attack it, than either my lmbe- the hairs of the genius, or the talent entrusted to me, or he must, certainly, be punished for presumptuousness and recklessness I see that it is easy for me to be deceived, yet I am afraid: in this not do not attempt anything, if you wish for happiness I would like to get some merit from you I was feverish, and they hid themselves unaccustomed to this and that day I will bring to light the rapids of the old Magnificence; and I will place this effort in the merits of praise. Although Rome, Lady of the Gentiles, was above all others, The capital of the world, Latius noftri Metropolis in this argument chin mainfibilocumvelutijure it was considered True, however, with the theme of this group richly endowed, from so many and so much, and not from to famous writers both ancient and modern with hundreds of meters I was really afraid, I was in the Roman antiquities mdagine to contribute something new that has not been excavated by others, irnto I would try hard. Why do you want me to go out with your help? I am afraid, let Rome be reborn, already celebrated in great tumult as if it were made, according to that to the rite, which we call Latium, eternal memories di- There are great records, that I would stretch out my pen, which; as ignorance: enveloped in darkness, and forgetful the old age, and until now they have been neglected, and the lta, too nonnifiparceabaliis, not tara defcript quara folum- r raodo PREFACE TO THE READER they have just become unnumbered. Therefore, as exact as possible I would have weighed the balance of truth with more artifice, no Having thought that the authors should be trusted with the documents already handed down, quin rather, whatever is rare in the universe of Latium, ktfoli- then, and celebrate the glory of the gifts, five cities, towns give, villages, five natures in the mountains, lakes, rivers bus, swamps, springs, conftitution fpedtes to in- recalling the sword, $tIw dvefyas, explored m pofterita-
to commit to tissue paper, works? price paid mus, according to the judgment of the experts, five labor in- the twofold, the flve expenfarum in Latium qua fighting, qua Depicting fa&arum fumptus, five fine Archives They make the city uninhabitable to others, and many to themselves a great deal of fervency was instilled in the skepticism of the literati ffeet, let no one before us be seen ceffifle; and it decays since I was almost nine years old, my only concern was to the time of the annual holidays, when others mentally and physically they would like to indulge in relaxation, which I do every year in one on the other side he would prepare a fufion, which foot, which horseman's journey, to be examined very carefully, I would spend Whence he was led at first, from the Tufculan field of Latium in the middle I strove with my eyes to meet everything ancient then with the same care and solicitude of the Alban field, Aricinum, Nemorenfem aggrefliis, whatever else And with confidence, worthy, it was obvious, I commented; From here on to the Ardeatines, Laurentinofque Campos, He wandered to the sea and everywhere, the gusts of old age, sharp I was committed to a palimpsest; nor contented heretofore, in The Wolves invaded the neighboring region of Latium, as well maritime and inland cities, towns, lakes, I explored the mountains, and as far as the borders of the Aurunci; then to Mount Caffinum, the last of the old Latium he advanced the city, and then the rest of the Hernicus Re- having taken up the field to be explored, a huge fcri I laid down the material of the band; Finally, Prsneftinas anti- quitates, the most famous of the ancients, rum montofum the Imperium passing into Tiburtine The territory brought forth, the most fertile of all antiquities PREFACE I found a cornucopiae in which it had been draining for about three years it was to be betrayed to me, to whom the kingdom of the Sabines was received, like the priests from Greece, Janigen, Pelafgors, Abo- and ruled by the most famous dwellings and colonies, so also it to the last border of the Samnites, Na- thinking to explore the springs of the river. If you sleep, use it We have found that, in this work, the order of our eyes has been determined are placed in the curios of Le&oris, in which the longitudes of the place and among the diftances, those with which it is equal, are the exact exactnesses, of old cities, cafés, villages, fountains, rivers the rapids of the mountains, the lakes, the mountains, and the villages, when in new and recent places, here a kind of parallel with them by comparison and collation, 6c they are composed by method, at any rate, which may or may not be neglected by the fault of the times they were rightly understood, to be rent, and that he had scarcely been succeeded by any one until now 6tqres ipfi, which I add, not from books in my opinion, were fed to the native conftitition of the places, nor did they reduce the fugitive to the dignity of a priest there And let nothing blind the Reader's palate to see tur, the fatus of the clay regions, together with the clays in it containing places worthy of memory, m Topographical tabu- we have reduced the cities, the villages, the palaces the ruins of these and other places began to be filled we dozed off; For Latium is known everywhere Rumadeb is a wild beast of antiquities, as scarcely as a stone to advance, where not in the new femer, and the new in the old let's remember the graven monuments: and the Romanus came The best field at the time of Cxfarus, not incongruously fu- a certain Burbicaria, so to speak, a city annexed to Rome I might have been called and called upon with merit. Which; everything with I will not infrequently look into the innermost recesses of the mind, soon not at the end of the fenfu, that worthy of all praise He met the message: Vanity Vanity, and all Vanities, with which experiment the King was gifted, as if to all Kings, Monarchs, po- the tentacles of the starch seem to indicate to men, the vain things of mortals difpofitions, various changeable and uncertain turns the fortitude of human beings is nothing but eternal if the reader eft, ftabileacperenneeflepofTe, Which luculently in hu- the right of the work, as if in the most lucid glass,
Let them be presented to the ear; indeed in this you will see not not with the horror of the flourishing and powerful once upon a time the leaves of the cities are the corpses of Paffimobvia; you will be amazed at the villages and palaces to all pleasures, how great of the most powerful builders while I gathered, and where once Caepha and the Kings Deliciofi retreats, wild today that you will look at the hiding place of the tribe and tribe; who a pinch of durable fabrics were planned, within a few abifle with starches in the most vain ruins you will see with astonishment; and therefore in this corruptible life: in transience, nothing is so splendid, magnificent, powerful and a strong one will come upon us, which is not in the fua of vicissitudes perhaps it should be temporarily suspended. The Power of Kings And the prince, how abundant the riches are, and Affluk's abundance, so quickly it crumbles away, in no place, none in perfona fortune is certainly blown hither and thither; each in very low below the tops of the latter, raised the poor were miraculously immersed in the deep abyss go At this time, the fed and the kingdoms The destinies of empires are turned by the inexorable wheel of fortune; as from here the most important cities and peoples The rulers of their kingdoms must do not intrude the life, to hold the preflame, than the inftar of the smoke and steam all ifta together with the impossibility of time, let them flee, trust; this for I am protected from all fate, from all tyranny; let them pass their lives with peace let them pervade the hair And these are the things which belong to the Divine the glory of the name, and the Republic? Literally, then, in this famous volume of Latius, the benevolent Le&or we wanted to offer Whichever way it finally ends, it We are bound by the judgment of Le&oris, Farewell I began to favor
IN- TABLE OF CONTENTS 6W are contained in this work. LIBER FIRST, On the Origin and Antiquity of Latium. Part One Of the Colonies of Latium. Chapter I in E Latius Colonis, and their continued Succefjione pag. g frost of Janigena tion in Latium lis, Sicanis, Umbris, Telafgi5, Latius Veteris Colonis IV. Te Secondain Latium Exfedt- tion, which felajgorumfuit V. De TertiaExfedttione Velafgo- the Arcadian rum in Latium Jub EfandroDucefatta Of JEqumcattone names A genealogy of gifted things a frimk fojl dtluViumJanigems, quxfofleris foplea of fofuls Duabmafflicatafeurent VII. DeTerminisfnfciLatii THE SECOND LIBER Of the Registration of Particular Places P A R S I Ager Latinus propre di&us Chapter I. Of the Places to be Memorabbtlibm Albanus between mam in Via Affia oc- currenttbm II. Of Origin, Antiquity Location JlhtnLongie III. From Monte Albano, ejmSitu, na- tura, frostiness IV. Lake Albams, ejufqtteOrigin& miracles V. Of the city called Albanus, each territory V I. (DeAricta, Nemore, etc Territory VII. De Kemore Aricino, Lacu VIII. De Lanuto, commonly Cilita de la Vines P A R S II. AgerTufculanus, and its surroundings places Cnp. l. DeVetertTufco, montibusTu- fculanis M Cnpta ferrata, feu Vdla. Oceroms
(DeSefulcro Veterum Furwrum m Mount Tufculano is not so cold found out Jlgtdusmons, Offidum, %obo- raria, Corbio, to the Tenth Fe- Rentinus, and Tufcula Abandoned fields. Tufculan Lucius Lucullus Of Tufculus of the sweetest Tempforum quodFrajcattumbodiedicitur jj VII. Harinum, five Marianum attt Fe rental VIII. Ardeatinus Ager, and other localities adjacent rums, Camfus Soto- mouse, Tellenx, Ficana P A R S III. PrzneftefiveAgerPrxneflinus Chapter I. On the Origin and Antiquity, etc Twiefttm mbis, Vuko? leftrina ibid. De III. TABLE OF CONTENTS Of the Fanis and Delubris of the Ancient Pre- neflinom III. Trttneflintt Fortune Primogenie, Temple V. Definition of the figures that in boc Lithoflrato fpetlantur V. Te Tofleriomm Temporum Prtne- fline city State De Epifcopis fnenephtinis ex Suarefius Hughello
P A R S IV. The region of Labicorum, Hernicorum, and other and in the center of Latium, the town dorum fitus Origo Chapter Tedus, Cabii, Labici, and the rest towns there I I. Labicum, Pedus, Scapfa, Pupi- nia c. towns of Old Latium I I I. Te Jgro, feu egione Hemicorum LIBER THIRD In ancient times, the city of Tyburtin. P A R S I Chapter I. De Origineurbis Tyburtina III. On the origin of the house of Catilli Of the Colony of Evander m the Aborigines the land which was called Latium deduSla, and thence through Catillus in Tyburtine Hill De in the coming of Latium DeVariisVolutionibm Tyburtine urbisfub %egibus gf %epublica Ity- mana V I. Of the Tyburtines with the Romans lining P A R S II. Antiquities of the city of Tyburtina which are still in its ruins fplendefcunt jo Chapter I. De Novo&prifco Tyburtinx ur- twice (ibid. De Villes Tyburtinis, qut ohm a Ctfanbus, cgibus, Confulibus, (Ditlators, Toetis in delights there were De Celcberrima Vdla Mrianilm- of the executor, in the Field of Tjburtine
Vdla Sypbacis fiegis Numidice D e Villa Rubelliorum De Villes Poetarum, Catulli, Ho- of Reason, of Virgil, of Vopifci, Villa Manlius Vopifci Of the other towns of Tyburtin, Villa Hippolytus, Cardinal d'Efle, that Tybure today diefuperftes to the surprise of the newcomers Lives iy2 II. III. IV. VII. VIII L I B E R QjJ ARTIS, Of the ruins of the old cities, and of the famous Fanorum And the situation, as well as about admiring Nature? which works in the Tyburtine Territory they still fpe&antur. P A R S Of the ancient cities of Vetigii still fuperftitus ijg Cap. I. e Anjeneflumine, quodhodi Te- They call Verone there. II. The city of Empulos fetufliftma
III. De Deftri (8iom Empulitane ur- bis, five Ampilionis caufa Ori- gine I? IV. DeTotaliurbis Empulitane deVafta- tion! 8i V. Extruded from the bowels of Em- the origin of Caftri St. Angeli Of the other cities of the Tenitorium Ty- burtini VII. De I N D E X C A P I VII. Of the Rock of Converfton the divine Eu- Ftachii Sacro, and of Ecclefta by Conftamino Mtgnoineofunda VIII. The town of Sanlli Vtti Juice, I swear it all around so terrible a plant He turns
P A R S I1. Of the Tyburtian Antiquities Cv. l. DeJntiquitatibus Tyburtinis, quoad Fana Delubra, Gods&pri- models II. De Sybilla five Tyburtme Temple Of the Variety of Waters, as in the Field are found in Tyburtino Cav. lDe quadrupltci aquarum Gene- Ibid. I F. On the goodness of Jquarum, qttibus Ty- burtina enjoys the city I I. Decifio litts, on perfect goodness waters of Tyburtina IV. (Dejlbula, ftVe Sulphureo Lacu, which they call Sulphataram, in Ty- burtino field, commemoration most worthy V: On the petrification of this Lacm Jlbunei VII. Of Monte Scifjo, and other matters tn Tybttrtino Agro, by trust most worthy DeAquneduBibusTyburtinis V i. De SanBis Tyburtinis, Eccle- It happened that day in the city of Tyburtina Hope P A R S III. Of the region of the Sabines Chapter I. Divifio Sabina 'Rtgionis fingula- Ibid. Of the ancient cities of the Sabines, mo- last fMiiAft)? inferred Memorables of Agn%eatin (On the Mountains, the Springs the Roads of Sa- of two II. III IV.
P A R S IV. Of the Kingdom of the Wolves, and the old in eourbiumfito
Chapter I. De Volfcorumfitu tgfmibus ibid. II. Of the Volfcorum Opptdis in the Mediterranean of them L I B E R QjJ INSIDE, Field of Pomptinus Chapter I. Where then of the Old tummodermefttusdefcnbitur I I. Exficcattone Taludum fomptina- the rum has not been tried by any non-experts washed away III. Today's fountain of the slopes dear jueant adculturamprifti for to be recalled With strength induftriis, which let them be brought back to perpetual culture they are How much business tet, and what immense advantages from there it emanates into the universe of Latium re pojmt, in which of Expenfis iu in the field conferring Totius Pkni Vilte AcJrian xx dedaratio general
quo titert majufcuU denote the separation from heaven, faBam emmum Their sandwiches are made of meat, in which all the parts and members are. fnncfalia of the difiaor, and of the atior of the places where you imitate the conlmtors They are noted and determined by each of the Cafituio. Antifiua road, (brated by the swifts, which; from the bridge Lucan leads to the Villa. Of the tdificiis and antiquities, which teferiunttr about the ilLtm way in the Vallmm font, the letter A is depicted. CHAPTER ONE Three huge palms long, wide, what a fertile Pythium Ligorium for Hip- the potrome had boiled, now the cauldron of Hieronymus Racciacari Tiburtini. Rainbow cells? with pockets before the entrance darkening a more elevated hill. M urus gypio explained including the sharp. Porches adorned with cornices: Scalaio collemafcendens. Locusovatus informam amphitheater conftruftus, aquis Ibg- full of rafts, covered with many branches and reeds, already He was called Joseph Capucini. All this xditicium It is cubits long. The place in which the houses aiia; and there were dwellings, which: already in they lie in ruins. An open space in the manner of a court, whose walls are adorned with coffers, inquibusftatua: co! locabantur Afcenfus, feu fcala: two? , ascending to a higher hill. The road over the hill, curamurisabutroquelatere. The plains of the hill of Feu are raised, about the number of fertile cells paImis, pofiiderurpartima Dominico Florentino. 1Z A square temple, red and purple, with no corners more, than the surroundings, are in the polfeffion of the rich Racciacari. Habitatunculre already vecuftacecollapfae The bottom level? partivallis correfpondens from the rear partc of the Court number marked, whose poiffefor is Jofephus Capucinus. , and the sandwiches of the Theater literd B marked, where the vineyard was Feliciani Fcrraretti Ferrarienjis. CHAPTER TWO CCalaafcenfus in habiraculapoft Sccoam. "Cubicles pi o Tragcedis were built, where they lived, and fc difpo- nebantad prodeundum juSccnam The gallery wants the scene. Scene; Froniifpicium The triangle was made. The porticoes in each of the profccni latcre Profccnium Orcheftra The space in which the faith of the senators. c-epcem gate: cross to Orcheftra. ExceriorTheacriPorcicus A bunch of snails, with which the steps of Theacri were acendebacur. Of the adificiis fcr hahitaculis letter C noted, fufra ftaniliem diB. e Vallts A notatce, ekvatts. CHAPTER THREE. From Triura with Porcicus surrounded by columns, by Pyrrhus Ligorio for Paleftra habicum. The area with the porcini raised by the columns, which one? , fertile Ligorium, a certain particular place of crac, in which fub cefto fub god Cellulre by two lacerations surrounding the areas, equal to Sr. quajcelluixance inrroitu had the pockets to be received. There is a portico fubrerraiiejcquibusaqua. Incredulous to the deep portico, from which the spring of water was formed: clear mae, which is called the fountain of the Palace. The place from which the water ifta originates. Exhedra8t palms long, wide, within buttocks with a half-square petiftyl. Cells: arcuate: , whose arches were made of the purest gypsum ctiaranum integticonfpicuntur. i A hall variously decorated on the four sides, the main the troika refpicic the valley, to which other objacenc homes. Veltibulumnve Potticustendensa Paleltra, feu Attio numew noraeo, verliisTeropIumaurcelIamnumeriii. Pcnllyha. whose children they had to carry on to the cross, with four cubichs around the corners, quaruor habiucula poft diflam area. A place in which another eraccontubcrm'um, whose spare fubterranes They seem to be seen as a lot. I? Three rows of dwellings in the square of the Difti Concubernii. Acrium aur Porticus diftorum Contuberniorum, fub quo func mun columne qutecefludines fuf1inenr, aquajduausfuifleccc. they are given OmneshKaneiquicacesinfundofuntejufdeiwCapucini. Manfio aha vctuflate collapfa, where the rooms were divcrfa. D where the buildings are on the level, all the others are less collapsing, of which rormccs anaglupt works, square and hollow
decorated cranes, in one of which there is a cage, with a kitchen at the bottom. A large hemicircular cage, in which are the chests, all vile three times adorned with pumice stones and cerulean stones, for which the spring had become hot. The area is filled with rich buildings and walls busArcaaurcaappelbrur, where jamellvinea VincentiiCoccanari, annqmcates pollidec and partem and Muncrain. quitrialaterapraidiiDcircumdanc, who took the throne of the Oneness, adorned furuli, palms the elevated plains, which are divided by the columna, i calce ccemeneo taftx. torulaiiftc e pumiceucrupraconftruftajfuni. Murusalius On the west, the border border is decorated with columns and columns. Of the frxdio, tjufque 'ediftciis, fequuntitr virfm Meridiem, letter D tmata C A P U T QU A R T U M pRajdiumaliiusfupradiftamarcam palmis. inplanoattibus laieribuslupradiftismurisnumero I will conclude, in which case, Teroplum ornarum columnis marmoreis ftriatis, quarum diameter He liked three palroas, and one of the few of them was speaking through that place to see ell, where there were two chapels of the order Compofiti, in modlinguscanismcifa, unumfupraaliud, Sccum Delphinis the joke of Voluea. The place ifle is already full of fpurciiis, and will be polished i Dommibus Akovici, with the plains spare number Z A wall, four hundred and ten feet from the road leading to the forecourt. 'Planum, fivc area encenfa aneediftum prardium. Via lubccrrauea cranliens below the deep plain, incroicum habct from the plane facing the West. ; Domiciles ad plainia difta; via; redcerranea! , queerar por- I went to the north of the country, and I was already a dog with a right hand PlanumlacumverlusOccidenrem. inferiusipsaviafubcerranel, where now is the heir of Dominic Gregorianus. Water; nocaci, ubierancflaeua; ,rubquarumpedibusfonresrcaeutJcbanc. The place, where Porricus was, is already in Ipinus, rents, and ruins covered, where fragments of marble columns are found the rum of the iguecombuflas, throughout the entire Jocum fpaifa; field here at SCBA llianus Pace, curo plamtie alcrioti number marked pcrtiner Via auc pIanicies3percaancediftiimPoriicum, quodcrailiinmis wall luftmcbacur a parce Valley verfus North io Intreimscujufdamviasfubcerrjnea: , diftam Porticum fubeun- tis, to other a: difficulties of the leading hundred. The wall of the crafTus was broken in the praiftns, the farm from the altioriparte wandering in Africa. . The staircase which was added to the front tuorhabitaculacarantquadraia. &one orbicular A plain, in one of which the ancient, treacherous road proceeds, where nunccftvinea HieronimiPetiuccii. De Palatio (S villa Pcecilit, quar literd E dcnotanar, and all their snacks CHAPTER FIVE A Re? ftac palmis lacieudo Cinftaftmuroinaiquali nocaco number which you dig the plainicim I have prepared areas. The road was crossing the plain and dividing it into two parts. The vineyard of John Arquieri, of the Palace of Eftenli, is facing the Orient Veftiarn, m elcera parce verfus Occidentcm is the vineyard of Pecri Angeli Long Tiburcini The wild pig of the North in the field; area: Ingreflus, and the principal villa of the pig, which in the middle of the eftlong wall two Pigs dividing A wall palms long, common to the two Porcicibus, which still intact. The portico on the other side of the deep wall, that of the villa of Pcecilis citcuit, and in place of the columns, made of cofts mentoedificataeft Prepare Paraphta, which; the leaves rose up, about all that they were there, when with half-columns on each side, and the arches of the portico. Periftyliatum Attritim, feuViIlaPcciis, Iongumer3tcumomni a building of palms, wide, the area of which is divided into two parts it is divine, from the way that passes through its middle, a wide gate on each side to the southern gate. A field is part of the field at the end of Ortum who is trained for Minerva Romana, already conceived by Lord Bul- garino the other verfus Occafum, is the vine of Hieronymus Rampani,
Tiburtini An open ambulatory outside the wall of the portico, which is called the head The portico surrounds the occafum, and vergttinlacus the south, that the ArrnSulatorium is made of stone, made of cranberry. Ambitiy wall medioditta? ares exiftens, totiusa; the shape of the building reprefentans: where from qualicateloci, relarionejeufdem Kampani, I saw that the vineyard was falling here, I believed it. The ladder which descends into a lower area. Areola ijepalmislonga, lara, fubquacelluUcquxdamad Equality of the valley. A building of five cells to the areola asquality? . The house in the front area; number conftruCr. se to fuftinendam earth diet; are, and from them the fattened foal is made, and the rest ruined Ripa quajdam e lateribusco&isprsediaavalledividens The place was covered with magic, and the largest buildings were destroyed by fire burnt ruins, earthen pits, I have made a Temple for you it is said. Eft iftclocus Joannis Mingonis Tiburtini. Sca! a, quseapIanonumeri dtfcenditad fondum vsllis. Various orders of sambeilacrorum ex liguo y erantea juxta contuber nia fub Porticibus arese marked with number Scalse, with whom from the bottom of the valley he ascended in the plain of the gods of the trumpets, they did not cross the plane beyond the porticoes. The cell of the former comrades, on the board of the punished tx, because they were fub diflis Porticibus, all iftse were Iberaena each of them had a gate, which was a cross They were correcting the fire, during the day All hsecellulseiufdemfunt size, ex on one side they have palms, on the other to the body of the Emperor, his comrades are brought to him. Wall las, to moisten with moisture, of the court of Pcecilis. walls and walls of cells quarenrur Vacuaieliftaintracraffitiem wall number fa&aficutloculi from where I was hidden, and the ring part was exposed The road in the lower part of the valley under the said concubines, having the shape of a battlement, with a refifted wall, and a plain covering smoke container Fundumvallis palmislatum, where Andre=e's vineyard is called 'Qu3gIozzi Tiburtini, quiuniverfumplanum di&arum cellum I was fat with a fat poffider. The place where the fall; a? dificornrn confpicuntur, denfis bribus obfica? TempluminfrontediftsporticusdupIJcisverfusOrtum, which quadranguIariseftfigura? ,abunaparte77, abalrera6y. palmorum, cumfuobemiciclo palmis Iato, &feptemJoculis half dratiad ftatuascollocandas Hemicicle ipalmis larum, qtiodhabetiiifraftum medii qua- dri with the pocket in front, where your foot had been placed, the area fpefting the cyme ao Veftibula two, through which a di&o Tcmplo to another building the stem was cut off. Of the adiftciifia Ligorinspro place Bibliothecafumpfit, marked with the letter F C A P U T S E X T U M circular portico decorated with columns, spans wide, in the building, diftoTempio junfta. Euripus, feu fofTacircuIaris palmislata intrasdificium me- dium portico; this whole place is fupradufti JoannisArqtue- ri, EftenfisVeftiarii. . jEdiricium circulare m medio pomcus, credibileelUutHe baths, or a place in aquatic delights: its diameter is pal- morumi2o. a priiKipalisingrefTnsindifturn sedichium The area in front of the gabled roof, surrounded by thick walls, for support the land whose plains are the highest and the greatest. leg E, iftaareaagereftfLipradicliRampani. The vestibule extending from the circular portico to that portico. Periftylium, feu Atrium square with porticos these, from the marble columns of Corinthian orders; that Atnum It is spans long, and in length, in the same place it has a vineyard diitus fUmpanus The veftibuluminplanitiem rendering the veifus Aquilonfm. The fountain and the rooms to which the portico afforded access.
The vestibule, at the angle of which the portico was carried into the area. A double staircase within the said vestibule, which in the fuperiorcs Bi- bliothecEe the walls were kindled, and could be thrown into the deep a circular portico. Habitaculadiverf3primipIaniBibIiothecse, ex3ltatainIateribus and corners, with cells, chambers, and corridors, outwardly round deflasexaltations Area, aucpIanumanteKdificiumBibliotheca. addiftamR. am- breaking bread Scalulainareamnum. Defending in front of the entrance of the circular sediric number The manner of the Temple was established, when the receptions and bicules, according to which Ligorius was a place dedicated to the futudes. Ivluriisornatusloculisftiopalmislongus, areaam Bibliotheca number palmistry Staircase defcendensindiptumdepreffiusplanum Plains, in which verifimiliterfucrat horcusad recreationsftu- dioforum, where he calls the vines and meadows of HyeronimiRampani. Porcicus nrnata columns, which is believed fuilfe before the diiftum mu- rum with pockets The staircase is said to be facing the east wall, where? pre- he was drinking in another, deeper cellar. jEdificium, cu'm diversehabitaculisinfra fupraterra. Ambulacruminfraterram paltr. is long, which from one part a. Two ambulatory, already open, which is below the ambulatory they were entering the ground, An underground place palms Ionru, to which the entrance is open pcr two sports from the deep Ambulacre, in the front the chests in which the fountains were, and returned to the aforesaid place Africum had two rooms, in which the foruicibns was left quadrarK. ficutaperturaputei Area, au: lower part of the atrium towards the north, before the diclura Kdificium. Scladuplex, whence it came out of the diitoatrioiTfi: ndum vallis. A subterranean place, to the quality of the ground of the valley, in front of which There is a great inner forest of Joculi, made of rough pumice ftrti(5tus, the ficutetia of the fornisuniverfa, the wall round about: inquo loculoadhu fupereftpedamentum, cuiftatuainfifteredeberete. Su- There were other halls and rooms in the garden, and the whole jamin destroyed Planumadaequalitatemareaenum in which other things; din cia, quafoIos-qMatajacent. Houses? nine, to the squalor of God? planttiei, near qua- rumintroituserantloculiintrorfumperforati, equibusfontesfca- they were burning A ladder to the first lady, with which the furnace of the fornicemloc was kindled whether the exit having level higher fupradicted houses or sources. Fragments of a certain wall, because they had built up the house the fupra plaumnum qti3rumformK, when facisinruinis lie the guesswork of the smoke will not be able. All fupradiftsB Antiquities, func inayro Hieronimi Rampani J3 Three chests with one pig, before the entrance to the road fubrerraneam, fub plano licera G nocaco The gate that led into the underground chamber, at the foot of the plane. that hires fubplanoliteras Cficucdcetur. De tfdiftciif (y aliisiociifitk in fummitite cnilis, letter G notatitt for the most part inpojfejiionibm Dominortan Altoyitonim. CHAPTER SEVEN T) OrticusfupraripamverfusvaIlem to the North, prophesied conceding in it, spans long, circular in width palms they had the diameter of the character, some of them seem to be fragments spread through that place; The area, or hall, in front of the wide portico, long with a square Kdificio palms, wide, in which place is now the stream suitable for hunting A place surrounded by a thick wall decorated with pockets, where it is believed that the poor man was bred in the aviary, or in the vivarium, qut It is fathoms long, Iatusi6o. Two porches in the frontejufdem, made of conftruifty csmento. A square house, with a half-square court near the entrance, where the statue was placed in a chest. He was in ingrcffu vetibulum with two cells. The scaly descending into fpeluncas or subterranean walks, in ta- buladefignaca
The north through which we entered the fpeluncas, with finiftrorfum ellent, conceding light to this first walk, covered with ruins. Both Ambulacrum fubterraneurn verfus Circiumj feneflras habehs fu- licks on the plain; F. Ambulacrumcummuriscranrverfim placed in the old Afticum, fcdabfquefeneftris io Ambulated by the swiftness of Zephyrus, and away to the left, whose arch on the other hand, the unruly verfus of the Aquiloneni had toil with various colors, flowers, leaves, and birds at the end of the lake diftiarnbulacrieftloculusplainiciei cequalis. Viafubcerrancainmediodiaiaambulacri, 'quadquinquepalfus mtrorl um was descending to the right, where the place of the ruin was covered with efl, so that tranlirinequecat Porta, i-cpctiafubterra, iamoblruaa, quirintroibacurindiaam the way Atnumiogcnsj. 6op2lmisiongum, 285latum, which was ance tedihcium lupra diftas fpeluncas, already completely rcquatum. Teroplum of a circular shape, half of which is divided and his gravestones were patcbat from the pre-dift court, the diameter of which was a pal. moral paite inteiiorc difti Temple decorated with pockets, with unointidimidi circuliimhabeureanre entrance. cells and ambulacradio adjoining the Temple, fed in ruins pulta Atrium long spans, larum with two porticoes inextreuiiratibus. &caveajduseinfrontemediicirculi. palmorum di. imeno, fedcaanteintroilumgradatimelevataeratapIano. AiiibiiIacriimoperciiniducensadPeii(lyliumnum. i8. Periftylium palmislongii, iojlatum, porchescircumda. then, all the forms of which were decorated with piBuris: columns above And their noises from all four sides echoed this bitatiouis surrounding Aula, Yongaj palmis, laca, dextrorfiim finiftrorftim having children Exhpdra, feptcm loculisornata Veftibulumautadicus. ducensadaliaaidificiavcrftisZephyrl The temple of Oaagon, cubits in diameter, in which by hiding poltes, they were forced to face each other; in ca-tis quatnor The diameter of the place is spans, and the angle is high they were columns. 2J Ccbicula, who were to be burned by the builders of the Temple. Area, palms long, wide, decorated with porticos with columns of e-calce, caimento stones c nais iftaarea now it is jocatur a Tiburtinis Arca A urea fupra Collern. ad diftiiiflio- nem alic Area: Aurcx, quiceeft in the valley. Potricusjuxraarcaniproduaa, adomniaredificia vcrfus leading Areola, fupraripampropficiens, perpIanitieminfriore, ante her Exhedra, decorated with chests, statues, and columns, with cells. , and walkers on one side and on the other. A huge court, spans long, wide, trespassed having walked whether duceiic. s. in whose forehead fcptem there were chests, with the tatters placed there. different rooms, some square, some female round Exhedrafpatiofa, with fpcluncain medioanteintroicum, ranta profundit3tis, so as to read the part of the circle adccqnately, decorated with tattoos inlocuIis. iintctcaseraiitColumnsmarmoiejerurilantesftriatae, with snakes in every font, Sr. in the middle is rotcmda or oftangles, with polished marble columns, and abf ftrii. Tolius The menfura of the building was spans on one side, and on the other. Dwellings from each side pondering Ambulacrumapertum, abareanu. defccnding the plane I will despise him. Squares, chests, and other works of oriiacs, where everything is equal func&e foundations nilnl other fumi Docft, than what this map- pa deiignatum Hoctotumhumikplaimm olivetumeft Sebaftia- that peace Pifcina ovatce palms long, wide. with two propugnacuhs vallcm vetfus A walk or road in the bottom of the valley. loncra palmis. lata Rcceptaculum indiaavia. Joculisornatum AnguJuexcurrens on the plain of Pifcina; curodiverfaruminventionum facal, affecting the planumli terasG. Via: fubtcrranea; below the hill bank tranfeur. tis two approaches. The underground road, which; I will go up the hill of Crajic.
And the temple of the angel I waded A subterranean road, under the bank of the hill, and towards the Underworld. Ambulacrum Porticus old Africa, teaa, columns or- ticumpofthabitationsExhedrat The area was about palmes inferior to the fupradifta. Locus. ubimagiiumeiatcedifkium fepararum, plainamfolo aquatum&ruinasjacentfubvepribusfepulta; . Agricircadiairarubctum, quiDommorumr, ,ntA! tovitoturr) with ommbtis fupradia. s aotiqucats, and tubetis, univerfo fo Io diarios pradidios; The gate, traolieiis in Periftylium to the noble plainumfupcriorum the peace of the West t Penflylium or Arrium pjlnrnlpngum, ij4! atum, circum. datumpotticus, fubquibusfpelunca; done the colors have long since disappeared The four ftonrifpices of the walls, which were the ornaments of the chests, fta. your ancient poets Ambulatotia aperca spans wide within diflos walls Por tic HabitaruIumhibernaleverfusAuftrum DomiciliumexiliensinanguliscumquatuotcubicuIis, iibipor- tasluntiibi inviccm coriefpondentes, balncum credicurfuuTe empty The hall of the penfilis, with a floor of white marble, in the manner of the Mufacians opens Anterium. Arcantediaum domicilium. DomiciliumaiftivalevcrfiisAquilonern. The staircase leading to the home and the lower rooms, infpe. ; Juncas lub gallery nu. Arcade prellior. Ambulacru (ubtcrraneu, adiaodomiciliotranfiens3dtherraas. Thermrc fupra diflam ateam, already completely destroyed. Thetma; Laconic; rum 52diametn, quastantumlumcnhabebancinmediofornicis, where the Rhine was crecalorrempeiabacur in the middle of the building tlt, and has doors, leading into all the other rooms, where: those cir- lay down Supra coronidcm cuiccftudo fuperiropoficavideiicur where are the channels of the concrete, within the crevice of the wall, through which the steam lescahdosadcaletaciendncubiculumautbahieumiinroittcbant. Asdihcium, incujusmediaambulaciumeratcuracellulislibe- ns from both pancs, and to be received as a family by all these hofpitiis. Four gates, leading down the fubtcrranean road to the high bank prtediumluftincremnum. I3. qua; viatianlit fubsdificium ver- the game of Zephyrus, and enters into other fubcerrane roads. Via rubterraneafiibprajdionum. I3, incransinalia viamfub- Earthly D"eiifi'ii! fufra[kmminferimvcffmOccaf, m, lil, ri H notatttm CHAPTER EIGHT
ARClmfsa2oOPaImiS' llU' li0 r'3diai infenor, circitct Viafubterraneafub difta area, quaainparte Aquilonariinmbat fpeluncas fub Pcecilis porncibus. trafiens fub temple in joitio ea- rum. ub, etc. letters; E. abalcetaparte verfus Auftrum lntoibatm ahas lubterrane ways. And this, by which he cranfibated in the building in front of the difts Area: habicacula from one and spare aceria of Acrii. Aula, Ionga73palmis, 4olaca, qua; er3t pulchcrritna, prob decorated, as the rapids still demonstrate. Two houses on each side of the house; hall; , of which and each room has a square of linen palms j lake and ahud biaugulum with one tear reao, and with the other cir- culari, ficut cage of the middle circle. Two galleries; io lareris difti edifice, one facing North Asftivalis. Hemiclum, or caveamagnamediiicirculi. having diameter spans, with each of the gates going out into the dia chambers a hall and porches, and with two rooms, otnatisflatuis A square atrium, where the three sides of the hall were covered; function veaspradiaaminores. acminorisproportionismedii circuli Sc cavcarum mmorum eft palmorum8o, aIiamajorhabecpaIirios according to other; face him. Planum. vel areaanre porcicum difli sdificii verfus Auftrum de- pretnorareanu i. palmis6.
Faces of the requent's beds, with two large chests, and three mnombus otnata. ui quibns were fatua: ,whose footings are still they are caught Areceantebalneaverrus Ortum, palmislonga, 5o! ara. In the chamber of what was an oval figure, on the sides of which were two fountains ces, loculisornati &murilaminismarmorcisv3irriegatis incruftaci IJ Cubicleumoaangularecumfeplemportis, &quacuorlaceribuB teftis and con vcxis, having Epoditern ufiim, which place was in which they undressed before entering the bath. Room Laconlic room, this eftfiidatoriumcircularisfigura? , light h in the middle of the hemisphere, where the copper cover was, taking Hall in the middle of the fafiigii, with two circular heads, fed small cavity Viafubterranea, crossing the plain rum, quaeintratinalias viafimilcs, fubeediriciov; cino. Area before the faftigium diftbrum balneovum verfus Favonium, Ion- ga palmis lara of the atrium, which goes from the said area into the street The road, from planitic aa% x, crossing into the inedium of the valley of Canopus. The dwellings of the different chambers on the sides of the road Atrium, through which it is transferred to the cedicium and hall no. Areavel3ulaquadratapalmorum abomniparte, ubiver- fusZephyrumeftcaveamagnamediicircuIi, and the diameter of a palm- rum that in the middle it had a ceila also square of a span rum depth square ice area, palms long, wide, whose walls and they were adorned with sackcloth and leeks it is the vineyard of Eugsnii Falegnam. Viaefubtenaneje, fiibdiftishabicaculisin mappapunctulisno- tat The main entrance is open; Aditusvixfubterranea; ,qua; callcm&prediumtr3cit, litera' G. noted The area in front of the building, where there were other baths. Atrium, decorated with marble columns, in front of each other Exhedra, long palms Ia: a ubi3b North side He will see the cycle, decorated with pockets, with inquis fiatua2, with two columns of fornics cycle Cellulajpalmorum troit Aulaquadratapaimorum 5iabomniIatere, cumfuatefiudine crucisinmodum impofitaquatuorarchetypis Tiburtiniinanguis, adorned with flutes; tigers, white and pure, which are still intact are made A ditus viffi fubterraneK, dift am entering the hall, hd already ruins completes A square room spans from each side, which part Occafu was the bathhouse, where the refrigerator was kept. The shape of the room is circular, palm diameters, which for Laconicus, this eftfudatorioabf water, the light re- piensemediohemifpherii, Gcut dealtis diftumeft. Cubiculuroprotcpidarioinferviens, palrois longum, broad, quajproportioeftunius of each and two-thirds. a3 A room, with a hot-air boiler, with three cells in the middle the four, in which were the lips or the urn; hot bjlneorum tc- pidorum, acpoft iihiderataiiudcubiculum, inquo poteranteffe furnaces for heating baths. Via fubten anea, on the bank of the wall area; where: the road receives Yumen through a certain square on the left, in the portico. porticoes fupcr paraftatas before the diftamarea, to the fertile ccllu- approaching cells; subterranean; fub pra? diolitera; I. inrip3muriare2e29, what kind of cell? there were three plains marked on the map, diverted culavilior's family? Double ladder in the difta? at the corner of the portico, which was lit at diftss level; fed noble plane nonaddibat, inultimofubno bili convolut3 permanent. A staircase on the other side of the portico, which ascends to the noble plane. The hall of the nobles is plain and long, feet wide, wide, and the rooms are deep subterranean cells? vcl access in the sides, or the front? ? Alice Cell? deftioata from all sides A wall of palm trees between the deep cells, in. of whom
vacuadepiftaconfpicuafunt, ficutarmaria muiIia. Where were the gates before the gate of the building? granting access to the hall cells. Hemicycle of diameter spans, where there were entrances, and he was unsteadily tending to the vestibule, in which was the great ladder alighting on the plane of the deep subterranean roads, where are the nume- Scah, afupradiftis a; dirlciisdefcendensin areaam nu. suit rx G. De pUnitUfequentiverfw14eridiem, aiiftciis, letter notattt CHAPTER NINE The plain of the hill, where the olive tree is Eusen" Amici, Tibur- A tin The ruins of some of the buildings there are rapid corridors or walkways spans long. A round cup, which was extvinfecu in the circuit of the color or he was born, as if encircling the ambulatory whose diameter was ell palm trees, in which place and the surrounding fields are olive trees Of the Petruffians, of the Tiburtines. The plains of the Ortum fupradio are depreciated by palms the dicla road leads to Fubertanea, no. q marked, the letter G The walls of the house were not plain. defined. Erachius anguptius fupradict A vi4 fubterraned nu. notes, li- tera. mis igolongum, quodtotumruinisocclufumeft The way, qiiS said, the arm is entered, differentiating it from others, because it divetfa he has arms, which one? they demonstrate other roads, all terminated at long distances tall palm trees, palm trees, and palm trees. they were cut off and joined together, receiving the light pcr fpiraminarotunda in their vaults. The plain is lower than the plain. palmis a fupradifta via fub terraneanu, o. lirera; G. divide Lncus, ubierataedibulum infvonte plani nu whose It turned to the north, spans long, and it was already clearly cft deftruftum, the chests are covered with haebina; plain And no; There are olive groves of the Peters. Devalie Temple of Canopus, letter K. notatis. CHAPTER TEN Urus longus palmis which, when you were ready, was a verfus vallena A From Canopus, fuftinet nlanitiem literje difta vallis longacft palms, wide, and this is the place of the fupradifti Rofati. Canopi ruripus, oopa Imis longus, oolatus Doroicilia two or two cells in a plane, when they are equal and fuftinten the prardtum, which Zephyrus was thrust upon them, where he was in the vaults I have seen the pofTunt piftura of the fub of the siege? some caveats subterranean rum. Column of Canopus in the front of the valley, having large hemicycle figures fathoms in diameter. CelIulo; two; abutnquep3rteTempliinprimintroitu, with how many in front, in what DNA? they were fatuascollocate. An underground portico; at the back and on the sides of which the rooms were running. Quatuorfpatiavacua within the craflitiem murinehemicycle, long palms o. deep palms and a half, gradually sprinkled with water he would come out of the prodiensaltius, and among them: they were in the rooms, and so on placed in them; falsified; of the former masters. Cellulainmuricrallitiepoftdiftosloculosjinquasdercendebanc The priests, through an opening in the middle of the arch, answered those who The great gods perished. The cavity in the Temple's roof, deep with palm trees at the bottom of the earth, where Neptune was, or Canopy; va quantum ferunc linear tranfverftm punftis r. otatae in there is a covering in the middle, and an opening at the bottom, like a court two io Cubiculain part of the Temple verfusOrtum, all the ruins voluta? . An underground place on the other side of the Temple, on the outer side cumdans, and receives the light of the perfect square windows in the furnace as if the 3spits of the sputum, as the rapids of the fub are offered to the rich forts, and this Tem- plum belongs to the same domain The temple was deep and deep, and there was a plane of fire an area surrounded by buildings, and now there is a vineyard with a kind of bramble Vincent Tiburtini loculis ftatuisornatum, the diameter of which is a palm tree. four cells; from each side of the hemicycle, for transit
coming iy Duoliacubiculajuxtadiftascellulas Staircase, from plane no. afcendcns in presedium Iiterse T. rooms on the first floor. asqualia, and other things that were direfS ticula luinisjamblata Veftibulumvclporticus4cubiculonu. i5 leading inaliamfca- lam, with which the furnace was kindled, the other plains of Occafum. Plane, no other. marked equal to that which was transfixed the predominance of the valley of Canopus. and the other of John, Peter, and Dominic Magninus from Cori. a field where there are vineyards, fields, and olive groves of Lord Sebaftian Soiiard Tiburtini, and ends with a valley which reflects the Zephyr. The wall, which is marked on three sides with the large letter L They cheer The temple was surrounded by a meadow in the corner of Occafum, followed by a difto plane which is a quadrature with three sides j long re, diaraetr, palms high from 2Rg aT occ, udcbantur lacrificaba, , Tel", I encourage Diprtlb, vlociti AcidcmiammmmihslitcrSL. my friends CHAPTER ELEVEN CCala rents two other meadows. Pnmum meadow, palmes 2qo ]atum Sebafilia Soliardi, the flowery iupradia. The place, in which portico lam, squahs difto prdio; i ahera parre exraralterafcala, in pra? dlumalcii, safcendens The plains of the deep meadow, about the former palm of another. whose tus ]usta port. cus longirudinen fecxtendir 6ro palmis, width palmoruro where he picked the olive tree of Jorephi Cajfaris Tiburtini almd the plane that makes the verfus Afiicuro, longumeftpalrois =ao, Iarum493, ubiinprarfenseftrineaeiurdemCa=raris. Terop um excrirlfecus of a circular figure, with another drink no. hrers I. defcripcum. And this extrorfum ornarumerac marble eolumms alhis ftriaris Doriciordinis, qiiarumcralli- ties eratjipalmorum diaraerri, quaefuftinebantarchitrabes, or- furniture, and furnaces imrmoreos The interior of this temple is rae ocrangulas was, with oftoarcubusinlateribus! palmistry ns, and the diameter of the temple was invacuopal. What Teroplum now the folio is raised, and the tower was built in the right of Joco, when tribus Ievationibus, perrupradia, im Dorrianum Seliaflianum So- liard, , loc, propneranum and today it is called Rocca Brum. A wall with fms fuftenraculis, long spans, predium deos fumccns, fcaplanodeprefGoriverfusvallemdivi- Planumfupradiftocircicer2op. iimis, humiius, &ilIudconve- oit with plane nu. 2i letter- K. that the plain territory efl Do- min, Bulgarin, , ub. tr3nfitviani, perrimefafta, adejusvilladucens A. mbcium, extniifeciis square, intrinfecus round, cum varus diverticuhs chambers, already ro! oa: quatis, ventibus obfiiis f ddparnti, invicemcorrefpondenresin fourpartibuscircu- I2 li cujusdia, r; Crereftpalmoruml2o Qratuor ccllulsbiangola? , cumunolarerereflo. &unomedii circle, which; all the four corners will be corrected outside the whole xditicium, of which each of them is palmistry 3o, Iara2Q. going, n atna Porticus, whose side portions are circles. Four atna of circular shape, spans in diameter, which; you- Ipondent hidden exceriots. A round portico, spans wide, adorned with columns, surrounding it in the middle of the garden, the diameter of the palm trees, whose pavement the rum was a variety of tlapids of serpentine, of Potphyrei, of marble black 8c white Porticiisacrioprincipalcontigua. p. onga, iolaca, whose the pavement was of black and white plaster work. Poiticus verfiis Africum, before the main court of the building, long Periftylium or area of the Academy, with porticoes and columns from omm Jacere. gray and white, with quartzite, porphyry, ferpentine and narmoreis. LongitndoperiHyliieBpaltnorarn jo}i, Iatitudoi7a Cubiculaadlatusperiftilii fupradifloajdificio tontii. ua, QUo- ram unuirjquodlongumeftpalmis 4o, htum &fupra ea-
they were demaliaerantcubiculanobilia. Introitus praicipuus verfus Circium. Veftibulurus, from the portico of the periphtylium to another adificium. 2J Airium with two fronts of the middle circle, decorated with pockets, leeks, and two dwellings from the Spaniards. The area of the front of the Temple, which was decorated with the temple portij, m tempiurn intromiitentibus, two loeuuli interillas Inlarereverfus Afticun, he had a cell replying r r J 2J. The tenplum of Appollinius, as Ligorius says, that of the ornarum it was composed of columns rum, faflis eczmento murali, quaiumbafes, capitella, finbria; , furnaces were elaborated from the roof cofta. diligcnrifGme. Above the order, the other was the order of this son, and between the columns of cem Jocuhjin uldemqucdecem ftatuas collocataednrerquas ten feneftrai The dianieter intenor of the Temple is spans, and into then he has ten swords. The residence of the divers of the rooms at the side of the Templiverfus Seprentnoncm orienra lera, ubi inanguloeratfcala, quSdefccn- debaturad the despicable plain veifus Septentiior, em& Ori- a lower level. 30tiemUs7rriy', U! a"rdi, ra; r, tr0iturn'trar'BJdPI=" remverlus Zephyrum, ub, other eranr ajdificia. All these ant JoMushctrar. "t, CetiSOpnS'&earUmFoff'
rnus, locherus, foderelecitintra go xiftum fi. bnlum fuum. si'dnoqdeIabramarmoreaficutfoliaiLT SriSPalrs in eH Vinca MarcelliFrefcia. i, tx unvcca aiiorum Dommcrurn. "ormSrafm 'Zl "od il! i Wtvern. s li hoc efV notarum. where the wall was crawling eight of them, the smaller ones in the middle of the circle. J4r i"S ruPcr. diaurn meadow, run in the middle of the lareris difti wall. fpo ndens, q, foris, inrus rartaris rartaris incrftats, nc, Z he oSv, ?CriUro'inqUOnUnt: eft"aDU, I, m&r"ceni'eD. Bulgar; n; , a fofm f"l; Cr: ,nt'clfi"atcs. riue"un'n'ciis, oIimhicere: ctis, lolum mregraf reftanr nP, ?rticus. ruiK': rran" in riR3 va, ,is rfus Africum, in quamalia: ii W Z V'j' mn(euntcs fub P, au" nu. ji. ut epunftisnoratis some tables are collapsed. The place where Lord Bulgatinus erected a rural house, in part lupraannqu, tates caverns. acpattim fupcr foundations
There are cages, and chests in the sides of the Temple, everywhere; they were still and mtromitres, of which the cages were the only ones, . rcI! cIuum Plants were completely extirpated from the foundations celhila has a length of spans, and a latitude of it was decorated with polished columns, with capitals and arches marble mcifs, of which we have seen some small signs The underground portico, receiving light through some windows, lupraquamaliaeraiporricus decorated with columns rertmplumcmgebanr Planra Theatri. cnjus rufticusxyftus faliigii. vetfus Clrcium. tan- tuminteger mar. fit, the rest of the fiibteirieHfentibusteftum, quas they belong to Dorainiim Bulgannu, when om. iibusolivetiscir- adjacent to each other Ambulacrum in front of Thearti poft fcenam. spans long wide in which there were rres trying Duoambulacrainfrontefcenicunumfupraaliud. quartornata there were columns, composed of an order, the lower ones of which were black your color is red, all of you. Ambulance lone the cudo was cubits wide, spans; fubcoque viajfubterranlaj Surrounding the theater Viafubterraneaadlnferosdecendens. Dc vMc, viifilttrraui ai Jnftros, litcra M nouti. CHAPTER TWELVE V, Anif lonSa e palmis. lara cum ripis e rudibus V lap, d, bus excfis m col isplano, i where is the vineyard of Auguflin Ch. appmi. Supraripamvallisinplano litcrsL, eft oliverum Andres Scarfelb; on the other side of the bank of the river Orrum Seprenrnonalem, is the olive of Flaminius Bertonis pharma- copolas, adjoining vineyards; fupradifti Marccii Frefciati, named ad no, Iirerae L. A pocket in front of Wlis, made of rougher stones, was made
tartan and tufts, and boiling for fountains, the side of palms by pouring Two ways; subterranean; , to which two; openness on the bank of the valley he drinks the entrance. I fed her he entered the Septenrnonal rise by a fupradifta underground road nro' diensepartibusviltevetfusAquilonem, notatanu7 literrel Dusahasapercuricdiasviajloculocorrefpondenria. home The house was destroyed by the ruins of some of the foundations fwper the bank of the valley, the northern rise of the valley, in which they were bathed buildings, Gcut also abalcerapartequa; cmnimodoftrufta, It was very difficult to depict them here. Dus other; force iubterrancK departing from the fapradifts, through they traveled the great roads of the wicked, and received light from them a round opening, like a well, in the middle of a gallery. A place occupied by the great caverns of the underworld, in which, during Ligorium, catnpi eraot Elyfii, jamlireia A, eftolivetum Lord Bulgarini. LiteraB, ettoIivetum Lady=Tarafconc: e. LiteraC, ertolivetum of Dominici Valerius. Letters D, eftvinea Here- Ronim Cenci LiteraE, eft. oIivetumfratrumS. Angels of Tiburti water lily Another way of the child, Ionga joopalmis, quaexfbpradiftoplano UteraaLjducebanuirinangulunipiiniaJvisr. The two major subterranean roads, each spans long, cutn aperturisrotundisfornicusjdiarr. erripalmornm raised above the upper palm of the camp broad tudoviarum eftpal 2r, and the height of the furnace then pal. 2i jo Via trafferfa intradiftas, palmes Longa, care eleven the light of the burning fire. The transversal road divers on the other side, spans long, with de- you will open your eyes to them. Place, where HuderatasdificiumdiiTitumivalleinfei-orumpal- mis riunturfcptem cubicuh fubterranea fub moutc from the ruins fafto, den- fisvepribuscoopertoficlocusrurdiscapiendis, aptus, apartc the northern verfus magnunieft fanticetum, which fe cjccendit ufqueadvallem, omnesiagrifunt D. Butearioi. The place where the broken wall, which surrounded the Underworld, was built he had passed away, therefore he cannot judge why he was made. Dt arcuhts Atpta&u&uum, &plains eircumfatentibtH, of locoLicati, notattsliteraN CHAPTER THIRTEENTH Qujeduftus longus a porticuLicari ufquead fupradiftumThea- I don't know. Jiterse L. palmis mcabat, partly with bows, and partly with mice. They made the corners of the garden, and the garden overlooking the garden was Ortum The plain of the valley, which produces crops, in poileinone clefixS. John the Evangelist, Tibuidhas. Agerlentuli Tiburtini. Olivetum Tullii Roviam, iabalteraparte arcumaqufcduftus. The walls of the ancients were so debased, that they could not be judged by anyone who was ignorant of the matter he roared Oliver Doralice Porcacafae. Vineyard of Michael Angelus Sheriff. o The wall was spans long, covering the front of Mendiem. io D ua? the portico of Licari decorated with columns? , five palms long, la- t, a wall which divides them from each other, with three arches fitu, one of whose porticoes reflects Septcnton, the other Men- diem. Inqiiatuorexa-emisqnatiiorenntcaveKmediicircuIi. Domiciles where; Integralpermaiifcrunt with a single bra eranr LicaH, io unoTcorundem a rnoderms fabricated It was a tower, which they call the iron tower of Tiburtius. A place in which were other a? dirkia and dwellings of Lyca? i, which: all they lie prostrate and in ruins, whose graves are covered with so many brambles, uttranfirinequeat Planum ante fupradiftam Porticum verfusSeptentninen, palmislongum, zi4latum, aprasdiftomuronu. fuffultum, where Peter's paftics is olive-treed both to the tower, and from a spare turn to Ortum iftoliveturoJoannisSalvati Muruscrafus has already been torn down, with a void in its crallity, which aQuaeduftumefedemonftrat, Plan iu fron te porticus Licaai verfus Mendiem, m quo vinea A lake of water of great beauty, than Tiburtmi's Aqua Ferrata nominate. quipartemlnierorumirrigaredebar T7 Tocus, inquofuitviafubtcrranca, iamvaftataruims, waters
plcna- omnesfiagri, withUcu, part of the antiquities, with them It towers, belonging to Lentulus Tibunius. Dltoco, where he took refuge in Pritana, who was called CoU SanBi StcpbaniJitera O noted. CHAPTER FOURTEEN TCclefia moderna built by Chriftianis, comatrioantcpor- um, abutraquepartecellulashaben. Ecclefiactatmum forntcum fupra coluranis, tredius lcrgiit-dinftr Iistet palniorirm width aliidoolatipalmis vcftibulumrotundum in front it contains a diameter of palms. Ambulacrtim feu a residence palms long, i81ated, in which I was the vessel of Zephyrus. The temple was made of wood, the diameter of which was spans, where inanguloverfus Ztphyrum, angulatutn pcriftyliumerat, latum of the palm of my hand Different square chambers, in which Epiphtilia are found inside on the walls, and one epiphyte in the middle. All Antiquities of the walls, csrrentated in a more regular manner; they are Varii muriantiquiperlocum fparfi, fedomnesdifj"efti, qiiorum the foundations of the plow are thoroughly excavated, which: for so long a field I am conversing with them so that they may not be recognized as they were. Pt ar. um or area Lta palms. A wall with tentacles, a deep plain. planumdepreffius Occfdcntem verfus. Duftus fubrerraueus fuper planum palms long, sides who had a light from some bus, and everywhere c3vernofish they have lost the rim, we have discovered something fed by the excavation faiis rec. tes, some fragments of which to Card. Barberino we brought Duk Porticus fuper Epiphtilia, they had to burn for xyfto, in this elt place, in which they fought, and the athletes exercised in the field fub ttfto hibcrnistemporis; I wanted to be different ftusfubterrancusjpraediaofimilis, &hiclonguseftpalmiszo3, side ti Plain in front of the diftajn double portico, in which the plant I was convinced. Arealonga 2copalmi? ,ht3 240jaItiorpIanonu. n. qua fufiinetur from dift is duftibus, ubiexformacredi potefftfuiffePalc- with PenftyHoponicus cjrcumdato, in quibusfefcexer- they ate the Athletce. and other fighters, who were killed by God in time. Murilongi, quibusepiftiliainterraixtaer3nt, tanquamambu- Throws cells, which function in the prxdio palms higher than the pla- now A house that is small, long, wide, in front whose introiiuiineratloculusangularisbetweentwobeneftrasmedius, and in the other two pockets two pockets containing a middle circle you The staircase that led down from the second floor to the second gallery. Plainities a: -qualisdifta? vi; mnris. Kuinat some of the walls I am long-footed, Iatum Staircase with a cell i. they are juxtaposed and transposed. A place surrounded by a circular wall, the diameter of which was FolTam3gnavarioruml3terum, undecunquccrafnsmuncinfta, from large square cloths well glued together, which smoke with They have been developed to conserve water. Devalk, where he loves from the Eastern side, nofatliteraP. where for amccnity, with rivulet water irrigated, and by wine the buildings of the Villa, the valley of Confientium, Adrianus finxil (proutvult LigoriiK) fua Tempe, to imitate Tempe Tejfalia'- fjnumproptirearipitvidtatitur excifa, utvaUesadplanitiem re would lead CHAPTER FOURTEENTH TNitiumvallis, inquaeftvinea Sebaftiani Pacis, fupraquam cR The gallery no. Nocara letter D. which adorns the valley and Tempe he was hot. , Part of the valhs, in which is the vineyard of John the Baptist Capretti, opposite to Porricus is not a fool. Who? G. fimul cum xdificnsnu. lycra; F. fub to which the valleys are a plain bufdamfca! is, inpofft(iToncdiftiCapretci. A place named Foffa of cedars, in which Vmca cf. Epiphamt Lawrence, where there are many springs of water; fcaturunt, who in the deep river lum illabunrur, quo vallisirrigatur: here Ligoriusdicitinquiren- do fe find the foundations of the Hippodrome, with the mule in pieces At this point, the parsporticus nu. i. cumalnsxdifi- ciiscontiguislitera; G.
The place in which is the vineyard of Belardim Bonamoneta; , further than the rest of the valleys are south of the vines, and particular places laria, which one? fimuf with the valley, another side of the valley cmgentepraster- we send, since the chieftain has nothing to do with confidence met Latium
L A T I U M that is New parallel LATIITUM VETERIS tumNO VI description Either by NATURE, or by the ambitious nature of the ancients He produced admirable things, according to the events and the times I will strike Chronologically, Historically, nor Phynco-Ratioci- they are developed and explained. BOOK I CHRONOLOGICAL, De Origine In the antiquity of Latium, and of various nations from the earliest times times in the same propagation. P R M F A T I O E Latij A? itiquitatibus difceptaturus, adeodifpa-w, I find things Hifioricorurnfere omniopinions, utfiliZ"' confused with the narrative of the rerumpene, should the naumfil be withdrawn, or should it be brought further while it would be more helpful, I doubted dumpler anti- to the Authors of the early times and divorced, the Hiftoric Greeks alone in the old record of things on the other hand, according to the tradition of the biblical Canons oars and sails are made more suitable; so utftcut the wave pushes un- I will give, so importunate a fervor of wits, how he turns, what he embraces, quodfeFfetur, ?iefciat, andqueadeoincidatinScylhm, quivultvi- tare Charybdin; Compkres etiatn om? ii inacceffts vetuflates pene- trandcefpefublata, ?ion so adiftoria corrobora? idam truth, which Many literary prodigals seem to have imitated the example. In fact moved, when the first men were born Porum feculorwnque Detuftas obliteraVit, iflainquamaveteribusGrx- trdtla of the authors of the scribes, the world of countless stories- co? ifarci? iatioiiibusimpleDeruntque co? ita? ni? iaru? it This rerumdifpa- entangled with disputes and disputes I compare dumfingula to cumfingulu, A juxtaposition bttltfinvQ- fight i P R F A T I O. I would strike the juxtaposition of the Authors with the Authors, and it happened, that in such a great stillness, some light daiite, he made me more successful and bolder. Who of Latij Antiquity he has duly and succinctly contributed the monuments, tdminatis, which or ipje Dionyfius Halicarnafius of the Romans Hifioricus, profua fagacitate ingcnij, excellent quapoltetjudicijvigo- fragments) nor fragments of Cato's Origins; nor Archilochus, Antiochus of Syracuse, nor Fabius Pidorus, Myrfilli Lesbii, and others, whose work is mentioned in the boc The twenty-sixth authors do, I think not to be entirely repudiated after the manner of many; whereas before that, according to the Hiftoric Romans, Livy, Dionysius, Varro, Euphebius Pamphius, p are alleged, many also con- let them cling to the truth not out of tune; so also in so much darkness etffub obfcu- rum, however, they will be able to provide us with some light, by which guide aTaxroq that ncf a. 'mjv8iT(& the old things were finally lighted, as much as possible, be rejected If, however, there are any doubts that occur they will be seen to be deceived, then he will be helped by the doubters, than to abandon them, and leave them all from the pursuit of further impurity to defy the mind Certainly Analogical Combinatorial art knowledge much in conciliating concordance with the Authors of the pojfe, and to por- We do not want to spread the truth in any way at all in this work will demonstrate the grace of the people. That this may be done, Tfu inierim Leclor aufius nofirisfave. P A R S Fol. PART I De Colonijs L A T CHAPTER I The first Larij Colonis continued their rjue jtalia bu. tndo captures to be carried dtimx what is divine I will give it to you I'll tell you what to do with it shrouded in tufted mist of the first Latius Colonis let's explore the origin in the manner of a millet leaf. SupponofVwzo; , Italy finon an-
you, immediately poft of the tower dion multiplied in immenfum to be inhabited by families of the human race piffe, and most both Latin and Greek These authors are abundantly aware of this. tJoJrod I suppose Secundb, Kobmm liumani Cofonlie m itilum genens mltaurator, of the first in Italy the Author of the Colonies fuiffe, use others in the triple world, between the sons of Sen Cbam and Japbet fa&a, with the left-hand partition of the Geneva text, diM- butoremjad to be introduced in Ita- We are not so hu- with my hand, I will make a certain division inftin&u impulfuque, as with Livius I will speak, with urgent fate, as, where the hidden things of the divine God are revealed I was in fact at the time of the incarnate word vicar in the lands of the faithful and the mighty batura, ibid. also to the first, who the human race from the waves lest the ark should be frozen by grace, altcram The ark should be ordered by Ecclefia: of God, which as many as he made, from a fruitful power The cataclysm of the shipwreck would boil over immune, and the life of the children of God: and xter- na: the strength of the blessed ones To use S. Juguftinus de Gv. D. do it he was shocked. I suppose Tertib, from the grandchildren, great-grandchildren and great-grandchildren to hundreds, others to the same place to the Trojan war the multitude of people liffe I suppose Ouartb, mltalia, fi Fahio Latium We believe in PicIor, primas. omnium Re- let the eolons dwell in fixed faiths, as let's eat more food. I suppose Ouiutb, Nobnum varijs with the names of the lustful fuiffe. Others called him wool, or wine ufum found, from the Hebrew word lain, or Chaldaic laino, which wineno- NosA-a tat, licappellant: Urea vero Oenotrum they cry out, that with Janus the prodigal, who- to figmfication coincides, quaiidi- I would pour out the wax of the wine. Others are Saturn they also say, because all those who Satu, the payers of the human race of things to the managers of the they are rent, which of the men of the Gods fathers: of whom see Xenopbont aauiVocis nliiSakitiumutSagamnon- no one knows all the names dunt: Whence that multiple appellation Is there a huge amount of discussion at Hi- confusion and obscurity inmlit, while quifquc, that there more it seemed appropriate, the fuse of the Satur- no, loVi$elo, Hercules, Atlantis, yixt-i pro- the analogy of appetite; amphim, a&ionum with a certain limit, he adapted; and thence was born that prodigious woman of the Gods the descendants of the mythic, qua: ftolida for Urtec's J-abulofa narratives here, he will properly count, he will see them openly from the cradle there was no strength, thousands of the first poft flood ho- A z min 'Athanasius men with various gifts, and portentous opc- reasons, which the cloth we read with wonder. With these tur prafuppofitis, already taken: rafto- things let's finish the thread. K I R C H E R I Four at Hiftoricos lego Co lonians' expeditions in Latin: qua- we call the former the Janigena; {ccun- dam 'Pelafgorum; terXm-n so JENCA Of which clays: C A P U T II The first expedition of the Janigenes to Latium. Pervtrfa Cliarni vi- sNgens Nohnitm between fi the younger Cham difli- it is fuiffe, they teach us wisdom Lfciil Vblumina. Oh, for Noah would give Cham, as well as because of the degenerates of the young man bad manners; then because of the indecency, and omnis vcrecunciia: expertcm, which pa- tris honcftatcm dedccora. at, actio- ncm and then because of the shame become a mark, which, after retrieving ccfforum Fathers inftitutitus, and divine Rejecting the worship of the gods, loosening the reins bat to all impiety pro- the life of God: license: fiquidem tefte Origen, Tertullian, Iuflinus, the new Ido- loruminventor, adsec of the Saturnia artfully entangled, depraved of all wandered the minds, made the hearts of all the law decmcntabat fuperftitions, ar- all the same: by magic, to whom I was the son Chus, Aifram, and the rest of the world He did not care to educate the futudo, it was innate everywhere against Noah and Janus the Father Fratrefquc fuos infatuated with hatred, who whatever way he could, he destroyed them
he was lying For the variety of thoughts a: ftu snatched away from he knew abundantly, rum compote would not help at all, how long have you been a father of tcchnis lantem obiiil. ntcmquefupcrftitem vi- learned I'm here tonight, when I'm sick every day diet Ckfmi ftirpcm then strength, then the power was broken into a huge increase chin affurgerc vidcret, libidi- ungodliness everywhere at home nari, lest a Deo ele&a ftirps fua fimili cedcremalis to be corrected by infection He decided that he was more helpful. After smoking that to the son of Idphet, Gomcro, with drinks, the son of Lapheti, put faith in it Italy, a country which Efttttm Hebnti call him to the colonies He drew the hidden robes divinely provided denti; e difpoiition: that is, in Latium. Ve- let no one me with my own wit ce anything confinxifle fuffpicari pof- becomes, isconiuhxApologeticumlujltniMar- tyris, Tcrtullianum depallio Yirgniis, Au- OVit guflinumde. Dct, Clementcm Ale- xaiulrinum in protrepttco, ctterofcpte in And he took this man to Geneva Agricola (yc: C. y. 1erf. o. Commentators iy intcrpretes where quxcgnq; pervert iitaxc Cbami, in the father of perfectionc moved, they are far away from me, he will find it hidden by turning his mouth. Subfcri- they are here both of the Abbines and the Arabs traditions, which it would take a long time to relate: Hatturim in the micro haggadala in Yofue C. any Also the book %abboth ftper c. Gen: where it is said to exprefle, Noah im- the piety, of the wrath of Ham, of the sons of that Chus ScNimbrod Jugientem to the sons of Gomer and Elipha gione fedem fixifle: which is the same Author Nttbianus in fua Arabica Geograpbia he insults, those whom I shall allege the least, cha- the scarcity of ra&erus was a cause for concern. If anyone yet all this from the sources, which: ad- I married, demohftrata fcircdefederarit, is come to chapter: z. i. Itb: Ohelifci 'Pamphilit', Tome i. Oedipus Aegyptiact, where: I brought, all the Orientals richly excoriated by the authorities will find He adds heretofore the old Bcrofus The author, who was what he was, tn prtfationr expose Nov4 Ko8 injli- security SS. PP Rabbi rural, other rumqijc write rum Baal Hat- burn Italy once upon a time Kitchim difta scrofulous cute" Kinus in they are born Sabbath V E T U we expoiuimus, which paflim then at Lat inos, then Hebr. eos, atcjue Arabes, fub tiominc Bar Hofcbia alleged repe- river Hic tn Cbaldatcis you were antquitattbus Meft. son r kr i i i rr, i j with the dominant, fierce revenge the love of extending the kingdom, and in- Tamed ambition to imprecate invaded, fed. with the only one who ob- he will be able to whistle, the Sabbath Saga, (cmem Saturnumvocatus) in Armcniaium- but with the dominant power they would understand, they would have an adversary they did nothing to punish him get the right opportunity they were made; that when he understood batttis Saga, in Bachts Anncnia uhi- in my mountains, impotcnti Beltiaton thought to yield for a time, fc abf- builds, defunSofucccf- flt Ntnus son, who &ipfeanimum to prepare the Sabbath knowing that he had been there for a long time "The dominion of the world is weighty. Saturntts is no better conceived in fe 'the son of Nio TSLini of Molimini, that he might. opportunely with the ftirpe fuafecontulit where the snake I was with my father, I was already there with the foundation kindly received by the intent of the lonians, the prince of the Abongenas in that region lest, by which lust he earned the name of Latius, He was crushed, where Jani was born j, even mortals rude and re-, a faith in civil life while he taught to worship God; Un- Saturn Je here the name of Saturn ros deserved, so that even here refpexifle vi- Deature Virgil Eneid. while fiction sings Saturn is the third from Abereus Olympus Fleeing the arms of Jupiter, he was exiled from the kingdoms of Israel ademptts Isgenus is indoctrinate, and the mountains are different high Compojutt, legefque dedtt, Latiumque To be called NEW LATIUM. j He preferred, bts-why safe latuijfetin Aurcaquc, Htperbibcnt, illofubrcgefue- run
Centuries, ftc placid peoples in peace was wearing Worse until gradually, y discolored love ftcccjiit ba- tied up And so many rabies bcndi The wise man named Saturnia teU game Says the Poet, first fly into Latium Saturn, whom many with wool, or hlio lani Gomcro Gallo, five that is the same it is, Sabatio Saga, to use in a; quivocation names are often confused. We not incongruous with this place Nobnum pri- Satire Saturday tsitns in qunjuaitf Satumia fccttla. mus; hk enirn prior to the astereo tiura mU J n j pratto po, ld cit mount Ararat Irmerme, Cafpto-cham Belt, that is Cbamt, who Baal five Bel, wBd, which the Chaldaic signifies the domtnum bewildered by the ambitious title, moved in &ter; perfection, according to him Be- rotradition, and other frauds those who stayed there, forced their way into it the region from which Latium is to be divided was since he was safe from the wrath of Bel it blows in the mouth, where the first people, who he had brought faeces, flowing from the mountains, (understand the Aborigines) none; still human life: unruly in worship, unteachable the human race which he preached, of the Gods, id it is, he taught them the worship of religion, pla- Sut Satiwu He ruled the peoples of Fub with such peace concord of minds, so that thenceforth no! 'mU undeservedly obtained the name of the golden branch laughs qua: omniapaulofuranobisal- who, indeed, through this turnumR. egem Cretenfem putantintel- ligii, as Scr)'tus tn this place, of hearing turn Kex next to Computum Ek- Jcbti, Saturno AJfyrio, Armemo, as you like It was years later. according to db, at the time of Saturnt Affyrtt, Noemtfivc And snow ATHANAS fm- n; fqUe Civilis vits experienced fme legi- health Saturday bus, iine information about cultivating the fields Ctltae. m mountains fpeluncif life nations, whence the Aborigems from the lust then, they were tefte Dwnyfo dicli. Which is not to be said of Saturn the Cretan they love, when the world is on earth the exceptional worship of the laws of the -eeret, farming various inventions He will be promoted to all men the arts were considered to be suitable, polemical art I've already got a growth spurt fet. Likewise, the first Satyrnus was Ajjyrius a happy and peaceful man he promotes wine of honor and religion. Contrary to Saturn of Crete, the man fcele- with infamous crimes, with monstrous cruelty, as Trogus says, father of Saturn October for he pr; ccait to cheat his father, who kills the children with them: in a word, the whole Cretan race fed up with immoderate disturbance he spilled I first learned about Saturn's wool neither can they, nor should they. And so let the thing be to have, clearly demonftratid, that Trotrtt; of Caftrat loVts father Satttrno he adds: indeed, I must make all this up poets on occasion of making Textusfic fuccef according to the tradition of the first people, of Cbamus and Noah, whose virility was discovered and teaches the brothers that she has shown herself indecently fasra Genefis Hiflona c. r. Jcnptonbus waste is added from caftrationc and ema- by the slaying of Chamus fatfta Noemo, oc- to give a cafion, ouk nium ferc %abmborum plerorum- which the Latins fentencia is, as fufe oftenfuit c. z. l. i. Obeltfa 'Pampbi- lu. Many things, therefore, as from falsification ZZuJ"f- the fifth is clear, they have attached to the poets The wedding ceremony of the first bunch they were going people are going to be attnbuenda. Pft iil": held Latias land Saturnia, fed by that Saturn first poft diliivium in iifi, Sawt- ratium Hctruriamaue colonies in- nratellus l di. washed troduftorc the ruiiie called Noah: fiquidcm reigning Saturn Lretenjt Pcfima Tit Sarurni Talula dc cafiration weSarurni origin when to drive Vij Voett- from IQD instead Hcbrxai quodzb-; am abolished the name of SdturniaSenonis it fiSiifies. K I R C H E R t in the reckoning of years, according to 'Berofi, Cato- nis, Scmpronti FabiiTitlom fcnten- then it is easily obtained, from The chronograph is clear. Nor are they dead Graxi Latinique Authors, who no- let them protect this splendour. He- Rodianus (I love, he says, at the beginning
say the Rornans act fefum, adlctufifi- mum Italix referring to God, to whom also Saturnum ipfum, cuma] ove pltoregno the fur falls on the ground fpicempradtcant, yeritumque ftlii domina- then, whence the sunken, because the name of that Italian was put in the place of yolunt Isr Latium called fuijfe, 1ocabulo Ex by which it is clear that Herodianus in this place the old and ancient God, I needed the first turn, because a little poft, him with open words rhmj(rii)7rov idcft grandchildren, five is Gomcrus luerit, iive Sabatius Sagas, Saturnum fecun- while the country wrings exception rit, for this is what Hcrodianus says: (Egtoncm says, iflam, which tur Italy, rcgno Janus obtumiut, bic cum Saturn claffe pcrltctlum will welcome bofbitio, iy from coedoclus peritiamruns, I knew him and the rude first-fruits ViEttun inmclius rcdegijfct', of his kingdom He gave gifts to the community; bojcjuc und concordef let him reign, and the common towns of Yicina opcra condtdtffe such as hxc fue- rint, Vigilius tells: H-M two praterae disjeElis opftdtt the walls You see the old monuments 'ta ttirorum This Janus the father, this Saturn built a castle The door to this, the Saturnia name Dc which in the most fertile we will do Then Herodianus added, I would like to give them two menfes, December of Satttrno, Ja- woolen wool, and therefore Janus a I begin with the whole of this region, "What is called Lactium, Saturniam. voice. So many Yes- ltE Bjx. OLD NO vocaffe, next to that of Maronis: Saturnia, the wise man, gave his name tells Qua- Ovidius doer. i. confirms in these words: This is how I remember Saturn taken Calkibits rcgnis was a feather from Jove. Then for a long time the people ate Saturnia tel- I played V U M L A T I U M. Say also from Latium terrala tempt God Iphidorus Orig. i4, c. Italy once upon a time Saturnia was called by the name Saturnia it was, just then, that Sr. Latium ditla, eb quodtdem Saturn was hid there by Jove. Columellain prafationerei ruftica: : In this Latium is the land of Saturnia, where The culture of the two fields was the progeny they teach C A P U T III. To the Aborigines, Oenotris, Italians, Sicans, Umbrians, Pe- Lafgis, Latij FetemCohnis. chills so many people tn cxponen tnaccff vnujfatg. One of the small hiftoric It is the first of the three Latius Colonos fuiffe Abo- Rigins, Oenotrios, Sicanos, VmbrosfPehfgos: But what kind of fue rint, from which the first human race come forth, how in Ldtium per- let them come, which of these names etymology, to use in a strange way as well Gracchus, and the Latin Authors cross- vMcuttM ciat, so out of the foggy fog of old age there is scarcely a blind man who knows anything leaves, even with the use of smoke mine, it afflicts. This smoke Au- the perplexity, irreconcilability almost in different ways panna, and confusion, when I will strike the Gracchus with the Latins, these with the Hebrews and the Chaldeans the domains of fummo futudio confcrenti at last some light, tametfi fubobfcurum, born to me, me in given the agreement of the Authors' suits made him bolder in mind: that&Le- to make a statement in this place, I've been through, I've shared book tate to each reli&a, as from mex with the truth, but not with the end of reason lest he fan, as he pleases, which fi has not proved, fper future to fail my attempt in the matter of Jude put And to begin with the Abongmi- mouse Aborigines vetuftiflimam Italian feu Concord that of Aulh The Latii call the nation Drennes: quo- Aeneas conquered Latium, the name Aborigi whether with the name of the Latins changed Dionysius from the best pri- The mouse is everywhere, and I will start this says antiquity. Thucydides, where Sicily acts in the beginning of the Book VfAborigi- Aborigi- confounding them with the Sicams, both- that the origin of the Italian feu Oenotrius leads to whom Virgilius wrote l. fic sings What is also the origin of the portraits of others Atmruin Ancient of cedar, Italufque, and father Sabinus
Janique bifrontis image Veftibuh adftabant, and others from the origin you need Where from the ongine Kings, Aborigines lucu- He slowly points out, at the time of Saturm, those times relegating Sextus also Aurelius on the origin of the Aborigi nor the race of the Romans; the origin of these Sfm Traxiffe said: the earth covered with diluYio, pafjim many in the mountains to which they had taken refuge tijfe, from qutbusquojdamfedemquctrente. , Pervecios in Italy called Aborigines cough Where it seems, however, putaffe At one time there was a flood in the mountains fervatos, cyaod facro Textui advcrktur Juftinus Saturn i. juHitia er pitttH. Mount Sa turn Ca- pkoliuin. grow Cethxi fti, ertm- iciitli Ahongi neserTyr Rhine Kr needs n. e, nontti- vcna Dionysius Here. ATHANAS JuftinusTrogiepitomatorl. Ita- worshipers of the Aborigines, po- r Saturn tanU futffe jufiitht it is delivered, ttt neither feftncrtt how, and not at all pri)aU of the matter, fcd all common tndtVtfaquc omntbm have been since? Let it be the feast of the Saturnalia traxcrunt origtncm Thus, Italy from the King I was called Saturnia, and Mt in which he dwelt, Saturnius, in which now yeluti d Jove pulfdJedtbusJiiisSxumo, It is the Capitol. Cedrenus quo- which the Aborigines called Ccuos I find laiTe from the Hebrew name I{it- ttm. itaenimaitin Annalibus: Italix then HercuMs filtus Tele- held the kingdom phus, he likes his Latin films anot os tb? Knroia? (jaTmifictri we To whom Suidas wrote: the Latins, who now Romans: Telephus emm Her- culis filtus with the Latin nickname fUTCiVi- (jLtKTi Te 7rdhajj YjiTiasMyofMita? , vvv Aaxivai, qM Cethari oltmnomina- Bantur, with a changed name just dicimtts La- tins And there were Cetbei di&i a Cetht, utieftGra: c. io. descended from Van&fro Japheth, grandson of Noot; un- from and to this and that day Italt at IQttim. And the openness Abongtnes do not fuiffe others, a gentile race, whose origin was from God nyjius, it was not allowed to find out how to use it, so also strangely perplexed he says already of Grxcanicx origin, already by fluttering, that which he first brings forth, in it draws uncertainty: finally, together It will make you more secure made a way, Abongtnes, to use ScTyr- Rhems, says the nation in contemptible words at! r6ova, 'f%awv)fiJ'aw. o9svacpf-, M' cJfcxWO' th fonts n come, atttdpo- Introductory period of the Greeks Bam, fid mdigenam effe, 'tdefi, first of this earth pojfejforcm and soon He gives an account of the acquisition of the fua, in these words: trt ahv) aMw OjU. oyAworov, xtsoimMcuti iWoiiiTUti, quta Inde- I K I R C H E R I although to no other nation, language, manners, inftcutis conVenire compertttm cft. Amazingly further on the etymology of Ahorinnum among fe di- dc ctymi
Aboriginal nurn vttriA swords, for some it qj) oitnv as Dionysius, to others from multiple errors those whom they had taken in search of Latium quafi Abcrrtgtnes, mzAberroncs, voci- so many The earlier etymology riquc Greek and Latin as well as Poetx as well Hiftorici are protected, like a more proper tongue. But for when pionyjuictbs ojutovol gentem let him say others also from Cetln's nephew Let them say that the lapbcti are propagated, use a little before it was oftenfum: prxterea them ab Elandro first acceded to the Greek letters Dotonyfius piffe and others say, certainly their name is of higher origin it is gins, so also by no Greek how to derive I say therefore, the Aborigines were first mos los lantgeiuts, qui flumentranf- going together with Janus, I will tell you what will happen colonies, first appealing to Latium tes, there they cast faith. But God there were abortions, not housing nor in the mountains of Tada, which I fear the new Tortaflls flood of Tuperventuri, like the safer places there, Ted from Chaldaicavoce, Aburegenes no mLexicofuoSyro-CbaldtCo fignifkat, Tranfeunttumduces. Who knows minisdiclumeffe? Eft so Abortge-, voxChaldxa from IZTtAbor, that to pass (we wake up adalia Tlgnificat,
who is a nobleman, a nobleman, a leader prtfcclum, juxta quoted by Gutdonis The Lexicon notes; which leader voices m They combine the word Abu- tfaetw. MIHDS what would you say, tranf- Voices of countless peoples, what voices when Gnanon understand, jurefua? They made them of origin, what? ofwv, that is, in monttbus gcnitos Abort- tnnes calling them, however variously they in the voice of those who are perplexed The same itiiSmf. OLD NEW lATluM. The same confederation of Authors rio; whom some with Janigenk "'They do the same to the aborigines: some they confuse with the Telajgi; most of them of equality with the Aborigines they bear Thus Dionysius Halicarnassus: Ancient Kom: Vrbem, he said, tcme ma- the hands are immersed, first in every mcmo- the affairs of the Sicilian barbarians tWToytns gensindigenr. fupe- riori Verb at another time we, or defertayincultafucrit, nemopo I am sure to tell you. And he had said Abo- rtgenas, as we often Xfiova. c, a native race, from elsewhere a I will not introduce you if you wish. Obviously so- the Sicani chronos I uiHe: ufos autem fuifle Sicanos nmi Sc Abortgines, because of extreme old age, the language of the Greeks was not understood, Ageliius l. c. is woven Faorinus, says Philo- the fopus of the old words the most greedy, and most of the voices too much prifcas and ignotiihmas from everyday life Communicate and express mind Curius, says he, Fabritius i? Coruncanius Antiquifimiiviri Vefiri, iuiJHmit. neither do the cumjuts of Jabulattj unt and diluade Auruncor, or Icanorum rumve', qut prnni Italy incoluiffe di- they speak, fed atatisfiue with the Word. Which: they offer everything, the most ancient a nation of fuifle, and many Q mteTelafgorum the arrival of Latow, and the neighboring places luifle Und Virgilius, during the war defcribit against the Latins, fic sings The armies are drawn to the plains, the Argives csuepubes And the hands, Vete- refque Sicani Abl" Urn Servms is thus commented: where rigMta. I will go to Rome there were the Sicans, who about pofiea are fluffed by the Aborigines. Whence s. canorum, however, the name Sicanorum becomes indi J2"' then, divers variously deduce. Tlmcydides l. He said, Are the Sicilians the Italian colonists? region, from the Kingdom of Sicily Italo, fic di&am fuiik; others from Sialta feu The Stcanians think that they are gods; fed with them by almost all the Authors not ex Stctiia in Lattum, fed on the contrary by Abori- gins Telajgis from here Lattt faiths they are called fuispulfiin Stctlia trajecifle, it is certain that the first of them was Lawunacum The Aborigimbtts are a small population. But of these to use of others, the wonderful contents of the Authors and it is a dispute. We cam, as much as possible rit, we will try to fall. When therefore the Aborigtnes Sicani pri- mi Latit colonists are called from the cited Au- with thors, verifimiIeeft, not with eosals from Chaldaica ftirpe prognatos, as the word ipfa Chaldai- indicates ca. the head of the people or the leader of the Indian army catun, they use the voice Sejran, in the plural "Um ficlum princtpem Magifiratum ferum, a. utColonellumindicd. t. And a to the leaders, who were called Segani, as many how many of their leaders were the period of Segani called funnquemadmo- while soldiers are called as a soldier; , to whom they are fed; but it was the proper name of those who people they led some new colonies and so with the name of the Aborigines whom the treacherous peoples we have said that I have been named They do not differ in cation, although they are made how could Sicult diverge to those troops, and diverging rights, instead of and they used poiTeflion, so that that you diverge with names to diftindio- they were used, and to such an extent, as today he nodded, easily one of the people you were ex- cleaned, as of Stcank by the Aborigines It was a deep feather. Moreover Oenotrius in this place did not knowledge involves difficulty, while their origin is anxious Thores Some think, cnotr'-
lio Uenotro colomas ln Italy quajfuturo mism. B feathers Oenotri etym- jo A T H A N A S I I the fur of Aufombus, occupied Oenetria, which was first called incubate hence called Oenotrws; to another abundance of nobler wine they also carry Italy. Dionysius mo- refuse rum originally flowed, at last fic says: Qmc fede isr genera Oenotrorum a poctis acprifiorum fermommferiptoribtts have been handed down self-made cow fi (as Ca- to ijr Sempronius and many others runt) Aborigenummr Vcrefuit Gre- canka, mibi perfuafnm babco, cam Oeno- three of these fuijfe progemem. NaniPe- Lafgos Cretenfes as many as Wltaliam traduclifunt, pofterwrtbm eb yemjfe teni- I find the portbm: but the older one from Greece to Western Europe: "I can't find the parts. I'll admit it Dwnyfms, Oenotrorum gentem&anti- which one, and their progeny, indeed from Jborigimbm. Qupd (if it is so, certainly them It is difficult to count the woolly ones, with Jborigines, 6c Sicans, ipfos lam- we will effeoftender in different co- distributed sounds. Therefore, either we really had to, or immediately from the My Janigenii were descending. Analogy he also shows the Geftor, eofdem, with Jboriginibm Sicanis fuiffe: figu- you have the power of Oenotrius to populate the Juphones, so The Jbortgins of the Sicans were people of faith it is fuprfdiftum, a confusion of names diversity with the identity of the gifts. Seddubiummovetctymon, that from the Greek fermon flow, no one garepoteft, with uwo r oi'v%, that Vtnum iignificat, U prifca in a Greek voice kiiiv, which, near the fetii in Mifiell from position, expression you would say, I would exprcfforem, by what name a the pofterisGnertf Janus dveNoemum fufra We excavated the digitized: Nohnum nim Janus di&u by Chaldaic voice he must use that which is the first vine Geneva, having planted, gathered the grapes, and he drank the wine from the hill, he was thirsty the first flood of mortals; that to use one of the inventions of men K I R C H E R I it is very important, so also thor fame fa&i among all po- fleas and nations with the first famous, just as from the Cbaldees, feu Ianige- nis Iaino, so&a Gretcie's immediate habitations He was called Ocnotrm. Note meanwhile, three at Hiftoric Oenotros to be named: Sabinus, felafgiwn feu Lycaon, and the first of which loqm- wall, wool, GractsOenotrum, quaft woolen; and from this but propagated the fever in Italy, i Gmcis then gave my tongue to the fuiffe We will bring the wine; who therefore to face the fate of the world. But not Vmbros to be seen in prateriiffe, whom most of them have cited The authors place Jborigimbm, Sicanis Sc Oenotriis fynchronos, whom ab Jbormnibm Telasgtsura mmSica- they relate to the furs of their faiths to the fraud of Hiftoric. But who He was the leader and king of Rome, or whence men have earned, it is high for all Lentium: I, as soon as possible, Exifimo, Ianige them from the first ftirpe whether defcendiffe; but the gods are fuiflea Greek lust ofJ&eJxs eLffo tS ideft, quaji from the rains t? di- luVw unt)erfalt fuperftitus, quorum indeed it was the property of all, mon- to inhabit the summits of that of those remembered, as in the story of the flood they were robbed, they feared lest I should be in plain places they lived, in the event of a sudden flood they would not sink, in higher places somewhat safer. Others called him fuiffeajunt, that that leaves in the universal flood from immune to flood waters they will strike; fed &haxfolapoetarumlicense- there is See Pliny. If you believe Berofo we will bring mouse, hofce wild animals, who cataclyfmo tranf- going from the Rains and the Kingdom which they inhabited, Imbria five Vm- it was taught. Sure confirms the same Xenopbon Cato at Leandrum, eof- and with the Nephilim, and with the Ark: to be included Tris Oe- our they will be Shadow" rum ety- dry Umbii ah rain saved, carry to where vatifu were. fic Ji3i. Xcno- phon, C3to Leander V E T u S Kf O covered by the rains of the cataclysm
in the development of new colonies not, Latius five Hetrurm region te- they know how to use Imbrt jpfi, itaeam from the rains, the rains, the fire, the rains, they Which one of us is stupid two&is agree, yet the etymon for them not at all to match when the voice of the Rain from Grasca Q"ju. which denotes a rain of fire dedu&a, Cbahleis nation mini- I am able to compete; let's say snow GPxcifffkfttohbmJanigenosFmk-os with that name cohoneftatos fuiffe, to whom we will write Reftat just inquirendurrF, whence, or from whom the name of Leader and King is suspended SS fuum became strong I will give the Pelagians, or (as Thucydides wants: m W IraAs ctmAsV do you have SixgAwBr&i? sttokm- iwiis efr. %egio rf Italo egequodam Si- iic vocitata fuiffe: some from tlanteltalo ftatre Hefperi, qui, fi Fabio To be faithful to the fptlor with Leandrus, it is said to be golden starch, lantgcnis ovy-tfovot; , which with Oenotrio con they pour to whom it seems that the Virgin liusl. i. neid EBloatf, surnamed Hefperiam Graii don't let them The land still, mighty in arms and rich Crigo rumtfuiCo ion in re zlcba: Oenotrii to worship Yiri, nuncfamami- knowledge Italy dixijfe the leader of the name of the gen- theme Servius in this place so comment- tur: Oenotria dtcia eft, lel d lino opti- mo, in which Italy is born; read, as Varro it blows, from Oenotro of the Sabines; Arcadia 1enijfe into Italy, and it surname feajfe But this is everything a fruitful and genuine predecessor the fenfu has already been put out. So the wine and the Italian are the same prophus effe, ex dicrispatet, figurative V U M L A T I M. q You will only diverge from these things: For eight days from planting vineyards, Italian, tefte Tlatone in Ti- luYaih. the culture of Italy, hence the Taunna 8c Vttellia from calves, tefte Antiochbo Sjra- cufarw, called, before both of them, Dionysius ambiguus from Hcradis bo- the bus goes on like this: No matter how Finally, he said, let the matter be drunk. she five na, yic d some-hitjtts nomintsDuce, Jhe from another, boc ccrto us pcrfttajum it is that a goat named Hercules at the time the bus was silent, and I was forced to go ahead. But who was Hercules? to investigate. Hcrculc m brother f"" Hepheria of the King, whom Dionjius Evan- drt, others also JEnct time vixiffe they mention: that he is not a futlifter at all He could, since Hercules had already done so many times before everywhere the smoke of the nations the worship was by narration, as mTibuns It will be clear from the record that Dionysius ex by the confusion of names, which ple- and in the narration of Hiftorikos the bus happened, for the younger Hercules let's say what verifi it is a thousand And Hercules was a priest Hejpert's brother Atlantis, whom Cato Atias Arcbilocbus now Attalus, now Italian tlf they call it, as may be seen in Chronolona l Heteronym 'bardu'; Attalus now? Italum cxprogenie GomeriGalliNepo- They teach with more courage; from which Atcalofeus Atlas then flowed from Grachtes to Italo five Attalas I am certain that he did so it is Italian, Oenotru, Hercules, At- lantum, five is one has been diverse called by such names as five there were more, Janige? iasiaiffe, &pri- In ancient times Latium was inhabited, that and from their names geftifque I wanted a modb lanicula from Janus, from Satttmo Saturnia, from OenotroOenotria, abltalo this Attalus po- Dhirjt, You were admiring the leaders or u With a needle from corruption ftioncyo with varicose veins inter- ATHANASIUS KIRGHERI Kings, a fruitful analogy I will give the names of the given things as well I don't want you, but it's difficult; un- Saturni, Hcrcu- les, Jtlantes, in the most desirable times a Poets Mythologists the mere records of the Scriptures are filled They rolled over with fatigue. But as these pro- let them be devoutly reconciled, and Iamgei let us advance to the hungry colonists. C A P U T IV Desecimda in Latium expeditiom, tfPelafgo- it was rum. Uas a Telafgi-s Colonias in Latinm Hetruria it is clear from Dionyphtus: the other And of Thefalus, Arcadus alt-
rafn. And with what occafion he from TheJ- they moved the fauli, and in what way at last When they arrived in Latium, they first said while it is; then, too, of the Jrcads campaign True, since the whole 'm sraphice fane defcri- I became a Pelagian liim jUlli issue in La they cool Pelagia: tjiiifriunt tutrtt Pelafgo Rum Du CCS Hiftoria: I will strike graphically bit Dionysius, his words for, as then the woolen Hiftona Telafgors geftis connected, hiftoria: let the truth be more clearly revealed. But let me do it he reasons: He wants Telafgorum from here some left the country of Thejfalia coafti, from the origin in the field they are taken, and they communicate with these resources against the Sicilians run The Aborigmes of the Hancautemmen received strong help, egota- but because of the relation rather ld I would have believed it, when Tclafgors was also a Greek nation, originating from Thee loponncfo; stirred by various coffees, fed er most of all, never being able to then to fix the domicile. For pn- Mum lived with the Jrgos, because now known as Jchaicum, local as most people think of him as needy: by the mighty King Telajus this ancient term This is where IdVis goes a son from Kwbe, ThoroneifOtii, which the first of mortal women Jupiter is entwined, as the priests say warnings On the sixth day, leaving Tcloponnefum, they migrated in Hemo- niam, which is now called Tbefalta. Du- ccs his Colonix protect Thithius acTclafgus, Lariffa&lKeptu m children As the word came to Hemonia it is, the furs from the barbarian worshipers, re- they divide the land, appeal and from the former leaders of Ththiotin, Jchaiam, you stand there that when they egiflent, about Curetes and Leleges drove them out runt, who now JEtoliacLocrivocan- there, with these several others rPar- accolx, the duke of Decacdionc, the son of Pelaphus Tromcthei Clymencs Occani filice. At-TtTfi, run, others of the Cyclades they took possession of them: part of Olympus and of fe contiguous region, named He- ftiotin federunt: part migrated into Bvotia, Thocides, and Euboea; others crossing into JJiam, many around They took possession of the Hellepont ma: but the greatest part of them by places Mediterranean fe contributed to canfangui- neos fuos Dodoiueos, whom, to make no one thought it right to engage in war, and there they remain fat for a long time. Dern-W. pojl v. irios from whence they fenfernt to be burdened, m ceret, they left that country, ora- as he was warned to sail to Italy then it was called Saturnia. So ready wanting near the coast of to contact: fed with blowing Auftro, &locorumignari, further, they applied to one of the Woftii, named Spinetemy and there they left the ships and the crew lmparem n. on fme fire, that they might have refuge they would not blush from their anger. Hi there instead V E T U S N O V U M A T I U M. y instead, those who remained surrounded the army, and the Pelagians struck the enemy, and part of them I flowed in the wind dog T. Mani- ii ii Pe- fatigue ndvcntu teftimo cx vctcriin- registration cpiafitum bus, and with them they died from their vow nia, they founded the city oftto the river nis surname But those who they asked for the land, the fuperati of Italy they came to the mountains of the Wmbrorum field, Abortgimbus finkimum. In the beginning therefore Vclafgt helplessness fuamrede- wear the fields in which they first con- they had eaten, having also taken possession of something Shadows of the towns: fed with the adversary a huge army will join them, to the multitude of rites runt fefe Hi they decided the warriors, the uthoftes, and soon converged from the nearest places they ran quickly, with the intention of destroying them. Elafgi, indeed, who then happened to be fortunate around Cutilia Aboriginal City they had the sacred lacumftatCna, as they contemplated the kin floating in it infulam, from the captives whom they had in the fields had intercepted, heard the appeal the people of his country, believe runt end already have a prayer the light For at Dodona he returned
then I will tell them what T. Manilius A man will not be satisfied, said the poor vidiffe in the temple of Jovis; one of the sacred A tripod covered with old letters) fic had: Pelagia ah Aboriginal with them punturin I made a fire. Continue to the oaks of Siculus Saturnia countryside And the Aborigines Cotylen, where fe Infulalie&at. Oueis mtfti, tithes transferred to Clario title Pbwbo to the Father Those who came, therefore, with great ex- In the wake of the Abori, the raiders met the Pelasvi with branches and branches expofirif and pray to the former coffees, to re- they are devoted to friendship: a part of faith by no means will the future be heavy for you, spinning the oracle, ajuntfead ealoca Folodeum was warned. listen to they bring the Aborigines to you, because they the war in Sicily pleased Gra; ca focietas, against the little barbarians. And so of the fields they line the ciKaSacrumla- when, most of them were paluftry speak now in the language of the priest; like Velia But then a good part of them, when the fields were not fufhcerent to all, Aborim- with them you went on an expedition, in the war He attacked the Vtnibros and their city the blooming and great Crotonen repen- Crotonen they take by storm, which soon became a fortress There are wars against the Wmbrosufi: later in other places also there is much impotence they reduced the fire, and with the Aborigines Pelafgi ram, dbnec eosjeceruntfuisfedibus s. cuios In these many towns, partly before the Sicu- partly fresh from being fertile unibro ri) m ciii- rare piimt fiwfcclibw throw out the nations of Pe Abortgines, of which are Cc- re, Agjlla then day, Pift, Satumia, Alfius, Sc some aiia, where? aftertaste while they were occupied by the Wyrrbens; Fale and the rium, HcFcfcenmum also mine At the time, small settlements were inhabited by the Omanis some sparks of the Pelagian race vant, when they were at the beginning of the Sicily But let us explain the words of Dionyphitus, from Dionyphius to whom it will be plainly evident that this fruit of the PeLsgers For the first time Ar- cxfiLn. gos habitaife, dvrooiis? ohtzs, bi "'r' 5roMo( Ai-yacn- quos many prifcos a. VTO-ova. s say, that is, native priests I will not introduce them from elsewhere that the great old age of the PcLifgos argued; then Pelafgos King from Niobe Pboronei filra son, give the name of the mighty, whom the first after the flood of the patriarchs crvyypovov the Bronologists, Eufebius, and Bardtus do elsewhere, such as the desire of a And Dionyfmus says, Sixth after Ar- gum reli&um tate, ideft, years, (liquid zj years to one a; tati attri- buit) leaving Peloponnesus in They moved to Tbeffalia, and there five years, ideft years ex- a&is, from Curcttbus Lelegibus prifcis I drove out the inhabitants of Grizctcn, into divers B Cross dodo of us origin Gray diBa Jo- ATHANAS Grttcue Regions, where each for- to acquire a tunc fpes; drags difpcr fi On the lap of Dodanim, the son of Lieutenant Vanis. fa-. teftedefcenderunt, a the name of Lydia he held Perhaps there for many years manfiflcnt, the land of new fusion colonists incapable of bearing tes, with the advice of the oracle, they came to Italy The colonies of the future were difficult. have mus prifcam the origin of the Tclajgos in a few cx Dionyfw demonftratam Already also the Telajgt of the first Tctftjgornm King's colonist's etymon the forest I say therefore, the offspring of the rum, in Greece femet effudifle: one of whom was Tbaleg Hebri the son whom the mighty Gcnejis fub tower a: di- born of fication, and from the di- vifione &iosan- nis vixifle teftatur, c Idvan therefore the son of Jabeth, afflicated by his progcnie, fi BcroJo we believe, Thaleg, the first in Ainmfi- the neighboring Gracia, brought colonies, nja five contracted lonia, then di&a mo dika iuit, uti plenque Lomentatores m loue- fepone-nef's are woven; Phalec, however, proceeded I was the most abundant Teiobonnclus at first gore He led the country there to cultivate, where&r the first faith of the Tclafgors fuifle Gr. ect Pclafgo- the origin of the light, i Phalcg Hebtifiti I KIRCHERI
The authors report; the first of which ex the leader of the expedition lied to Thaleg in the name of fe nmamT elafgum, then also a universal family Baggage, corruptly; then Telaf He wanted to be called that name lust remains with the lustful. When indeed, and at what time did this happen, cx Chronological Compute Paulopoftpa- it will hurt you; but of these Telafgorttm vcte- see the expedition to Italy according to the text of Dionysus, He is delighted by the various errors of laborfquc the earth and the tnares were finally inflated The Adriatic sea is a line, which Spiiieticum they say, appealing, to the same town By the name of Spinetie When the teams were finished, they finally arrived in Tea- Tinus, Aborigines, Vmbrorumquc re- they penetrated the gion: where they were afloat Aborigines of Telafgi first Vmbros, Abortgcnes vero Sicanos, five Sicilians They were peopled by the faiths that had arisen; hence Abo- rtgines of Latium fcdem of ancient Sicily rum, but Telajgi, the Tyrrhenian leader, whom and some did not meet with Tarchon erue they confound the whole, little by little Etmm they occupied the htrurta, rhcnia, i rbenichxdsnomincTyrrbeniam, to use two marks of the Tyrrhenian underworld. run QujEomnia from Dionysius beautifully are brought down, of which confule; zo- In Etruria, where everything is more difficult they are skinned C A P T V DeTertia ExpeditimieVehfgommArca&um in Evander Duke of Latium fdtla. Lamb in the Authors ex- gave birth to difficulties folding the various Telajgos deno- a threat Certainly someone that they were of origin from Tcloponnephos It was a long time ago He grinds the wood; whence many Oenotrios they also make the Tclafgia of the nation; to use Dianyfw, of which Telajgis Tbeffa- the matter will be so similar to that of the same you can be easily offended by a profanity. fed from these below from the profilo. Now to X. let's talk "dequa so Dionyfius": Haud multbpoft, other claffvs of Graxus into it years ago bclluni of the Trojans, preached by Pallas Arcadia; , which Evander conducted Mercurii filuis isr "Nympha, qualn Gra; ci Themin, the true antiquity of the Tomans then! iY3nilri altogether The mountain Palatine a Palliiirio city Arcadia? Capkoli Nut Hill teller turn Evander first critcmli terrace agriculture Broad in- took OLD NO They sing. Then he continues to describe modb Faunits Latit King courteously ex- of the fields, as many as they could He offered a part. And so Car- mcnU, mound five hill not pro- with whom they chose the river from the Tiber, near they built him a small village, ho- mmiim, the captain of all the ships from Gracia had tormented, capable, whom from called the city of Tallante Pallantium runt: whence you desire Mount Talatinus, indeed Pallantmo, on this and that day the name remains. Haudmultopoftap- by the wolf into Italy Hercules, Grace a certain part of the forces of rum Pallanttum was founded, the other Satumium The hill which is called the Capitoline Hill occupied And here to use Euphlatius reports, Evander Pam's temple protected, shared the hill, impofit to him by the name of Pallantit from PdlantetWio, who even a dead ipfum on the top of the col the dispute was settled; Greek letters Latto brought the smoke. Yes, Friday. Aurel. Vi- ctor on the origin of the Roman race; first of all, says Evander Ita- he taught them to read and write, idemquefru- ges in Greece first of all he handed over the art of excavate the earth lendiegratiaprinws boVes jwltaliam intro- he married everything to Saturn Oeno- are equally attributed to the trio. I also want fc. atx, Vandrt in Latium ad ALneas An- poft Trqi excision else Lacwm qusefiturus jedesxoncomitante Troja advttttut i i r. . J not a small company of us, and from Italy to the shores of the Laurentians, He landed at the Aborigines, where Latmus Abori-, received the gin of Rexeumhofpitio, given Lalnnia was married to the same Eilia. But in Latin, JEneas renimin died Having conquered Latium, the name of the Aborigines in He translated the Aborigines of the Latins, whose son Afcanius, m the founder of the Albd: far away, of the Albans
Lmw raised up a monarchy; that everything let us advance more quickly in those who are fertile. PriwiLi- Ex hifce ergbluculenterpatet, Pri- TJliim mos Latii noftri natives fuifle Jani- I differed. the cheeks which we call the same when V U M L A T I U M. f5 Aborigmi and Oenotrtis; to whom nx Pclafgi, who came from Tbeffalia, The aborigines indeed populated the Sicans, The Pelagians, on the other hand, under the Tyrrhenian leader Vmbros Hetrufcofjue. Evanderex made these Arcadia years before the Trojan War whether from the %eatine field to the place of Ttberi He destroyed the neighboring Palantium. This one or veroannispoftEHMtffecu- tus Latu the King was crushed. Nothing therefore it is just as if it were snow and let us return to the account, as hence the account of time is perfect for us say the colonists in the year mo- and how much time it lasted rint the colonists, innotefcat Chronological epilogue dir. a concordant The first was the Oenotrios and the Pelagians a little of it, the Janigenus ftirpe, who posterior posterior grandsons &prone- you can fix the first faith in Peloponnesus run For, as Dionyphitus says, the first He passed through the Greek Arcades to the end of Ionto Dionysus; They settled in Italy, dedu- fuitabeo ScThoroneopnmis Pelopon- to the princes; for he was born from Phoroneus this is "Jobe, from this and JoVe, as it is said, Pelaphgm: Lycaon was the son of Aei verb, e whose daughter Deianira was born to Pelagio the other Lycaon, whose son was Oenotrus He was arrested before he was at Troy it has been fought And this time indeed He is a colonist from Greece to Italy. This is Dionysius. Where Pclafgos with Oeno- He confuses the three quafis. whatever happens it's time to use the fleece Let us confirm the fcendifle audit. They are calculated by the Chronologists Eufebiol cxterifque, from the flood to Troy
day of the year From the flood to Turris? dificationcm, Phaleg rose. The first partition went and I will divide the earth in the year To the death of by the flood. [trying to do threatened the world, in the year Add ComjMtut of years the flood complete the cities by Athanasius From the flood to the rise of Abraba, From dawn to death Abrake, From the flood to Joseph (Scm, Cbam, Japbet iilii, grandchildren, great-grandchildren.
Euphebim here oftenfis, recites various things The names of the kings and the time in which and whoever shall rule, and Inacbum first ArgCforum King Nini the vixiffe was offended, whom Sc Abra- hte axjyypovov says; Tboroneum, al- then ArgCvoruin in Peloponnejo Re- gem, ovov at times; Apin's desire The King of Egypt is years old Abrake's birth, But Cecropus was the first Atbenienius Abrake the birth of the king
The sudden rise of the Oggii flood tigile Hifce you can easily eat something Pelajgi Oenotri, during the campaign they were planning, falling, gathering Dionysius, as a little earlier, ex- he says in the preceding words, she contigiffe cm- before the Trojan war, and because jEtnfndt assigns zannos to one cetacean, hxc dufta lynmwi. j fanx years before the war of the Trojans; Strabo confirms this, Some say, Pelaphgos before the war of Troy janitempora jjc orotAias (pvyovTotg tov i7ri Aivx. ysvofavov Kircher xnvcoj, Deucdion's flood from Tbeffa- the fugitives in this place were confidelfie. that at Trojx excision by Euphebius diiuvw dudi45p citatum iantebellumTro- the gate, they leave led by these the year of the birth of Abrabx they leave And these fubdu5ti from the years of death Abruptly, they leave years; by which at the time of Ifac you were with the sons of Ephtu, la- Cob ruled, that is to say, in the year Poft flood75; , at which time Swraz, Cba- mi lapbcti pofteritas Janigena in di- conquer the nations divide the world he was lying From this, therefore, I calculated It is very clear, Pelagian priest, five as Dionysus Oenotrum, first, then Pelaphgos years after Oeno- trum fecutis, as the first of these Oenotrius in Grecia, so he first in- graffi into the university fe Tyrrbia pro- they paid From this audit it is clear that Latii Liicr
The inhabitants of Hetruri before Telajgore the immediate ftirpe of the sons of Shem, Cbam Pc- Japheth's progenitors; cujufmodiWgz- la'ss- unless Sicanos, Vmbros fupra fuiffe memi- too much Horumautem abnepoets fuif- fe Oenotros PelaJgos, d Pbaleg the sons of He- bri ftirpe defcendentes, who colonies news of what will happen, mTeloporineJum brought, ibidemfixerunt other surnames and other colonies to finally land in Italy runt, the fleece of priests thousands of thousands, little by little the great ones the foundations of things have been laid. But They fuffkiant about the audit. C A P U T V E T u S N O V M LATIUM. C A P U T VI Pe Equhocatione nomlnum, aprimis analogieslarumrerum pott diluVmm Janigenis, before the potters of the potted peoples They were applied to t)uces. gLures fuiffe Lanos, Satuhm, A thousand more Velafgos Oenotros, The Hiftoricians teach us, cjua; .amen, let's pay attention to the analogy: they will be adapted, from one to another called by the names of verfis, the origin fuam traxifle, where fingulacumfingulis let us quickly compare, we shall find. For when men are prrmxvi, poft the flood and the separation of nations Hebrais mixed, most of the first of the parents of Geftis, of the universal flood, of Nobno, and each ship from the Tower Babylonia: fabrica, de ftatu gcftifque The Patriarchs before the flood, mirabilitcrtranfkto, of the Gypsies, of the tyranny of Nembrod, the ignominy of Cham, with magic and miracles, they are unheard of; jofa- and all those, even by virtue, beings, the glory of the gift of things, or things the discovery of the human race they would cry out, and be amazed by the smoke; diverfa: regions diVtfts them fplendidif- cohonefta run Hence the first founders of cities, Cultivators of the fields, legislators, of the arts; wool but the wives are the mothers of the living, propagators of men, ma- of the Gods three, benefactors of goods; but the sons children bearing similar names of the gods, worshiping the juftity of Egfonif who were called propagators. But when the first of all the Egyptians amazing rum gefta, as if quidpia that he would leave the natural order, in- if they thought, it was not easy, Perffitiones proniflima: , apotheofi them a certain cohoneftare, pr. Tfertim cum to do this, a great weight in in their minds that excellent pri- the character of the parents, and their affairs naturalized, they called knowledge JEquiwca loss breeder gincm
longxquevieeprodudtio, and daughters, where: among the stories to be written they could provide coffee; who The promises were strengthened by incantations frequent and magical illusions, which ungodly offspring of Cbami's divinity tem data works affecting everywhere paflim Satan ate the magiftro; JEfftimm their minds were troubled, as emn they worshiped them as cxleftcs Gods, foZfit and as the reason of all things they worshiped the detractors of the fan&e; at- that hence the first Architecture: Deo- rum foundations; Hence the origin of Cali, Sa- tiirni, Iani, Iolis, Hemdis, ALfculapii, of Mercury, and of other Gods; which: o"mnia calculus fuo they prove La&M- phon de aquiVocis, whoever he may be, he said, the gods of Saturn, who they founded cities and peoples and hence the ninth, fed more fuifle Saturnus, the god of fire John, and their sons were Lolcs. Names therefore these were the dignitaries tis cujufdam at the rude priests for no- found the worst celebrity. Hence Sw. Let us begin with the Scythians of Noi; Nembrod Sa-fioJmm Gracchus, and hence to the Italians while they filled the universe. Hence born deploring the confusion of the Hiftorics the year, the season, the year bernavit, neediness; dumexcon- jw axmivocation of fufa names "I will be the analogy of every nation" (there he invented Lanos, Satumos, Loes, Hercu-Ztfe't. fufio in this propofito argument ment of the antiquities of Latium, whose con- the story of the first colonies in that the introduction, not the of the first Pehfgo- then a plum txpeaition j8 ATHANAS after the flood of Noah's children, ilve nominafpc&es, five rerum gefta- analogy
it will be clear. And although this in they have been richly frequented by the preceding, here it is, not tameilnifi peranacepha- leofin I brought a kind of repctation, to rites finally shines. And so on On the first expedition of the Pelagians: it was almost years after the flood contigifle, ex pfcfcedititi computu pa-. protects; whose gefta compared with fe- cunda expedition geftis, and with ter- tia Hercules, and with the fourth Aeneas Tro- jant, so similar are found, among the scribes of Roman affairs jut fl welcome the diversity of places, the hiftoria profus seems to be the same. the remains of the efle ftirpis Vhaleg fupra diximijs, iplis nomenfempermaniiile These two They moved the expeditions, tefte Dionysius practiced, one years before BC the light of the Trojans; fertile Elander Lead the fa5tam near some years before the Trojan War. If already Ancct In Italy, the arrival of the Hiftoria above examine it, write it in the same words prchendes compofita fuifle, qui- the bus of the Vclafgors landed at ItajjKn from It is attributed to the authors, and therefore for JEnea Evander, for the Trojan Vclafgt, for (the Sicilians are easily understood. Amb%ia What also fic demonftro o PekTgis first, Dionyphto and Ltvto teftanti bus, o-Ttoja- pr various errors in the Spinctic end I built a city there. The Trojans identified themselves as the leader of JEnea. on the coast of the Latins and the Aborigines, and Troy at first, they called out. i. Velafgos infefto agrhinc Aborigt- regioncm, and there the captives intercepted in the fields. The Trojans are read in the same fecifle Latrentine field to the sea coast. The noblest city of the aborigines in A"ro tPeatino fuifle Cuttltam, in which they fixed the faith of Velajgi. On the shore'org! K; nobilirimamam I K I R C H E R I I despised the city of Lawrence, whence the Trojans they inhabited At Dodona rcfponfum da- then Fuiife Velafgis of Infula fluclante in Cuttlienfi lake. JEnece Trojantfque presedixifle idem Dodonccum the oracle of Delacufalfo, with the menfa: . Abortgines 'Pjatini magnumexet- they soon led the way against the Pelaphgians nose Dionysius LiYw teftibus. Abortgtnes Laurentius the same on the contrary The Trojans are scheming. Vclajgi Aboriginibtts to force con- to check the countermeasures, and Iupplices ciim branches of olives. The same JEnea prseftitiflfe of the Aborigines King Lattno; Vifgil. teaches: Tnm Jat us Anchifa destroy them in order ah to everyone A hundred orators exhorted the He bids them go, with the branches 'vclatos Palladis everyone Again, part of the lands of Troy nts aflignafle Latintim, because the Greeks the aderfus will be pleased with the benefits. Thus the Aborigines P{eatirit partern they aihgnarunt the fields of Velafgis, and eofque against the neighboring Stculi Vmbrofque in receive part of the faith and friendship run Rurfus covenanted with the Aborigmes in You were driven out by the faith of Velafgos and Sicily they are Pari pa&o from JEnea began to fodder with the Latin King of the Aborigines, tpttttdi they are to be overcome. in the Arcadian expedition, and; but they are read contiguously to Evander JEnece geftis are found to correspond. Evattdrum m uxorem acccpilie gtftorum ReeisSMzfiliam. . ir- t Auiea: . But Aeneas of the King's Latin He took Ldvinia as his wife, the bridegroom it was oftenfum. But the marriage is said to be complete not far from the town of Ttberi condidifle, from the town of Pallante Arcadtce Vallantium di&um. Jeneam SaturmO' Eyaudrey OLD N O 'I remember that it was not far from Tiieri Laumitmombemcon river didiffe, than Troy first, then He wanted to be called LaVmium. ii. Aeneas was received into friendship Latmor commune cdrpus tranf if Evandrum as well as the chickens of MontisVa- Inhabitants of Lentini, in the commune of AborWt- the Latin corpus tranfile. , fu- it was oftenfum. Aicas facra Penatium, EVan- Panosinftituit Now the beginnings of deeper things Let us compare the gifts of Evander. Saturnus, the ruler of Italy and Latium the cultivator, as a fupra diclum, was now just Janus, now Satur- it is said that men were the first to read wrote, taught agriculture, mo- things turned uncivilized, Virgi-
lio tefte Isgenius unruly and unruly of the mountains high Compofmt, lcgefquedcdit. Evandrum Janus Saturnmn di- whereas, Sextus Aurel Volor teftatur, who that which; pnkoIano&Saturnotribue- has&x, E)randro juxta analogy quan- V U M L A T I u M. iP. los legere-& fcriberedocuit, and the same Italians first discovered crops in Crete he was surprised, and carried away. he taught the owl, dm"' cattle and agriculture: hit the plow Who all Tibullus OJiri Saturno Mgyptw, Virgilius Saturno at- gives fcd %omido same fuiffe ap- folded will be found below. From this analogy of Hiftoric things Confused and perplexed, 'what are they up to? or they determine, they do not find, many and from more recent authors, in- three whom I place at Cluner, they are exifimant, ci %eat %eat, use of the first fe- The story of the kings was broken effc, from the geftis of Pclafgorum confii5tam, cui yet the gravest Authors of God nyjm, LiVu, Diodon with authority I can't write a book. Since analogies of things handed down by the ancients will not prejudge the truth of those who desire fedmagisconfirmet, cumcadem ma- gnis femper to the Heroes, to the per- to be remembered, applied fue- rint, who is the first gloriously becomes five is Janus fi vc Let us begin, five office it was rice I will BC Aeneas feutmtid nonpr bxt CHRONOLOGY ym? Albanians, Romans, of the public, and of the emperors. Aeneas desires a long voyage, and is greatly inflated pencula, finally pressed by fate, landed at Littus rent and contrary affinity, with Latmus King Abort generation, he lived there, after which he died in the Kingdom, the first The King of Latmore, and many with Hetruf He completed the last Hetrufcorttm King of Meentum; di- and changed to the rule of the Tbufcians, tying the ipfe of the fair things, He gradually raised the Latmorian sheep to its size one cannot but wonder at the desire of fate. Tab around seasoned
II. Afcanim Samphonis blind ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI He labored for a long time to build it. The first of the Albanians king III. Sylytus Tofibumus brother Afcaniifucceftit, whom he repudiated I was the son of Lullius, as I was brought to the Kingdom, Afcantus Reg no snort Hdi. Saul IV. V. Latinus Syhnus, King of the Abans, son of Syhii, fucceflit David RlX Ilrael.
Israel Jophat Prophet. Prirr. o an no Joathan Ifrael Ahaz Rtx Ilrac. Pythagoras in Rcgno, Alba Sylytus, King of Albanormn, VII. The head of Sylius, king of the Albans, VIII. son of Capett, AlbanorumRcx, Capetus Sylytus, Alb. king X. Tiberius Syphoius, Alb. king XII. Aremulus Syhtus, Lattnorum&cAlban. T)ux, K. lIl. AlentinitsSylYtts, Latin. &cAlban. R. ex, XIV. ProcasSylYus, Lattn. &cAlb'an. Rex, Ortus %omuli %emi, annisante condi I. $omulus retituifent rem, %oman# rteardificationemmolitifunt Olymp. extindto iimul the Kingdom of the Latins %omannm'm my brother, with the strength of the kingdom, was slain, and the fool reigned, Tyomulus may have reigned years, two menfes, at Ca- prcampalude died struck by lightning, ruiffet believed to have been transfused among the Gods, tem- more in his honor A long time ago, in the year to, abducted; were the Sabinx Virgins. Touched into the hearth In his reign, and in the fifth year of his reign, he died. In the sixth decade A hundred Fathers of the Senate were crushed. Wars geffit against the Camerinos, Veientes. II. Numa? wnptltus, on the basis of Sabtnus, one poft interregnum or the rudder of the Kingdom did not go to waste; of the whole religion Author of ethnic ceremonies III. Tullus Hofiilius, degenerate from the religion instilled by Numa, Al- the bam destroyed, Ftdenat cs fubj gavit IV. Ancus March. Sabini i? The vagaries of the country V. Tarqutnus Prtfcus inftited theatrical entertainments, Thuf- He made war with the Sabines and the Latins. SerYtus Tullius (ow expanded VII. Tarquinius the Proud took the Volfcos no command. He subdued the Latins, the Sabines, and the Hernicians in war. Perhaps
jl6? my 1IJ4 II71 Jipb
6-you OLD NEW LATIN. Perhaps Tarquinius the Proud re- gnaffet years, and smoke at everyone hates him because of the closeness of his manners and tyrannical actions infuriated, as well or especially hate smoke He will receive my chin when I am away from my son Sexto Lucretia, Tarqmnii Collatint Wife, chastity; conipicous praise, ? fce the threat will be violently crushed; P%uam ftptem Reges years npioex- Royal dignity greatly increased Nuiffent, expulfus, profcriptufqiie a to the people, never did anything could be done, so that once again the Kingdom, a which he had cut off, he would possess; and so much so destroyed in the house of the Tarquins, %mmum of the hands in the Republic; re-form it was given Whose first cousins ffan were Bmtus, Sclucius Tarqumius mftimia Collattnus; every year to others others fumptis Confuli, whose works little by little such an increase is fumpilt (Refpublka so that all it has been dominated by a rare world. The beginning His was the year when the world was founded. poftdiluviumimgci ftetitufque adlulium Cefarem. quinoft the thirteenth year of Tnumvira- Rom. tys III, the first Emperor of the Omani proclaimed by the Senate and the People He succeeded to the Monarchy of the World, in World after the Flood of a %pma Condita Olympia From then on you will strike the Emperors The beginning of the Omanis was fuming, which to this and that day continued Caffa- it takes a long time to hit the rum. Beyond this, they mark the end, we do not advance; Fed to those things, which do not meet the bus: they are we are afraid C A P u T VII, T)e Terminates Am we oftendumus, La- in the times of these priests more widely! fuiffe, how poft EVandrt in brought to Italy For in the season of wool, not only that, who carried the Tiber, the sea, and the mountains is included, Latium diclumfmt, Saturday, Sunday, Hetrufct, finally from the Tiber to the sea and Tyrrbc- whether it was of the peoples, fub Latto com- they were captives, until Hetrufcis Tyr under the Dodecapolitan rule, and from the irrigating perio, every nation shall be protected the limits of laughter, and they are born Dynaftia floats; : Lattna, Sabtna, of the Wmbrians, and of the Tyrrhenians. For use It was the foolishness of the gods, the first of Pelagius Abori made an expedition into Italy Vynaflice gtrubm jun&i Stcanos ex Sabina&cLa- tto, Pelafgt vero Tyrrhenian Duke Vm- bros, who then time Hetrufct five They were called Thufa, and they drove them out. And Abortions, indeed, dry all the feathers jllud terrarum fpatium, which Ltrim Trifci of Latius. Three rivers lie between them, occupying runt, which &fedesdeindetenuitidem kind of people, but only ap- pellations, the old Abortgmum no- men fervently towards the Trojan war times: when the Latin King threatened fant Latmi. Pelafgi ad- arose and conquered Crotona (which: ho- day is called Cortona) Hetrufcorumlhbe, Corcona, of the entire Tbufctce fucceffutem- tZ. pons potitifunt: utllrbesCoT, once of the corum Ag)illa, 1ixq[ie fat demonftrant. Antiqui kaciueLatii, temporeLd- Lat tin King JZnet, the ends were these: from Occafu AntofiuVtm from Tibur to con- flowing to and fro; hence ipfe Tibe- w to oftia each, leaving from the south ma- n bring; a Tiberts oftiis LaurentumSc I will burn; hence from the rise of the Irish border was, quoLaft'orK; includebantrop- Vrh" pida videlicet LaWWM, today Sancla prim Petrontlla; Artcia, just la Kiccia; . Labia, Val montone, I sing; or, as Cluenus wishes, Colonna; C Prcenefte, Broad ton gitado and with a jet creams W ATHANAS Vranefte deniquc, today Talcjirina; however, generally, Cora There were cities of the Volks. From the North A race of people, as if I love something between Prancfte and Tybur in Latmoriim land to the Tifculans, and moste fcfe arrived at their town near Tu- Jculum fito Algido, of which in the last place. And so it was in the fields of Latmus if they were enclosed in the borders, as Sahim e regionc, Kar between the ScAnien rivers they drove out. And so the length of Vetcris Lf a Tyburcus is miles from the sea is: latitude iTybure&c RwMinzw-
tem Albanu miles; really ta- men are alike, Nomentum, Fidenas, Collation in the direction of the Sabines by Abo- rigmibm or Sicams, before a Sabi- they were thrown out, seasoned, and then new ones colonies from Albams cxcultas fuiife: fcd of these I was in the To- half the metropolis of the Volfs, Coram, fBolam, Velitras, outside Latium fuiife, atrocious wars, with whom Latmi Ro- they made it, they weave it, they knit it men from Tarqumw fuperbo feptimo Ro- the King of the Manors, the Komans The jury was acclimated. Whence Latium in him the smell was gradually brought back, I K I R C H E R I which in the first Sicilian period, before which the Aborigmibws drove out of Latw they were rent, but some had cities, Antium, Mons Circcius, Terracmafwe Anxur, which the Wolves inhabited, Si- in both directions, together with Hermcorus And their region fucceflu tempo- ris fubjugata: the whole to wit, that peace which the mind Luis begins at the neighboring springs, rivers Amen, Tiber, sea Tyr rbcno, the river Liri, which today Gari- they call gliano, he is intercepted, utimappa teaches If you are so satisfied with these things, it is already fruitful to- Let us discuss the more famous places of Ldfwlo: first place of residence, Ur- bes, a town adjacent to the Tyrrhenian Sea cent, or they will not perish; then examine the mountain cities mouse, Hernicorwn, Latmorus, JEquo- rum thirdly, inland areas let's go And as a priest of the town of Latius let them be more clearly understood, the towns fcu places where today they cry, Maa? that is compared to each other we live; as this nerit the town of Prifciloci, the towns of the last days renonpofht. The names of the chieftains of Latium, before the Tyrrhenian sea They were not far from there. When the Nomimbus of those places bodte cor- of the representatives I. JJ)ma descends by the Tiber, he met a thousand-year-old the Temple of St. Cyriacus, then nineteen thousand miles beyond, once a great city of Ophtia di&a, ad on the right side of the Tiber, from Ancomartius the fourth King of the Omani was established there, to which the port of Komanus flows on the other side threatened by Claudius Cephare, de with which to use of Infulafacra, (which river bicornis divaricatiofacit, whose rising pflia Ti- balena, qua: in the river ansuftiisde- It was a prachenia at the time of Clandius, the origin of Port claudication see that he gave it to many a&um noftra Hetruria Once upon a time the most noble in their day scarcely any were found um. See what: deOy? M. vfufiustra&ant Dwnyjim, Cornel. He is silent. Solinus, Pfo- lomceiis, Strabo. Jvlirum is ho- still in the days of the old a: dificios rings were found in the ruins, with which na- they were bound. Clu1erius uti&. gefta The kings of Oman as a fable proves, so Ophtia not from Anco Mar- tio, fcd from Evanorb of more ancient origin seasoned OLD NEW LATIUM. He wants it seasoned; fed so uncertain effe ratoremfe at the time of faevientis Deftilen KlVmI"" St. I think that iffe wants, how certain it is play, which the Authors of Ancus Martius they deliver The modern OJiia conftat Ecclefia S. Aurcez famous death, and fepulcbro St. Mo- ax tranftulifle Herodianusl i. tells, Vitelius also at the time of lightning fevientium illuc fe contuliffe, tan- How could he live there? bores, that they should not be touched by lightning. jteratoribm frcflttenta- nicce, quxpoftea Sed de Laurente agro, de fylva JLauren- The mother was tranflated in the temple of Auguftina, and the populace saw Lawrence rnart I think nianorum rests, 8c paucisdomi the bus carried away by the malignity of the air; nor to dwell at any time in Ireland Oflia lim there anyone can; it once flowed mart adt. i. no. J l M r v with a mixture of btrabone: today tnbus almost it smells like miles to be loved, a slime Ttberis immediately arrived, marislitto- I am full of things. The tower is there pcrvetuftx fragment, how much fupra the fence with which the greater obelisk, which Cafus Caligula was transported from Egypt founded in the Campo Vaticano fuifle tdett Plinius l. from St. Tracen the city was founded by Leo IV, Tont. Max: Inhabited by Corjici I will remember UfaBmn. then
then Various Jcnptiones at Gruterum, Author rejljuefupracitatos Ldurcntum, cmx olimLatinorum me- tropoJiserat, hodieitaevanuiffe vide- a mouse, however small it may appear. In the same place, however, the tower fpe&atur, fcu fpecula of the sea, which: on this day tur Torre di S. Loreno, profanely named lest he be changed into a witch; no doubt to later it is called fuperftite lta, when at the time of the Roman Emperors yet the abundant fate of the flourishing people rit, tefte Herodianus, from infcription m regiong Tranftyberina found ditjTurrim contt3. Twcas Marti-fatis liquet; qua-itafehab Salinas Ojienfes, nmV, ScIulius II, both at the ports, then he destroyed the prosperity of the city hit, hit here; peponumxa; tcrorum- that there is an abundance of the best fruits results A lot of rent Ca- Merse Apophtolica: they increase qua: they are an ark; the art of making fofalar mftar, in- among which, where the overflowing ocean is filled: have been, in the heat of the year re crefcunt, of which mention it takes place among the Old Ones poets OHiee mum Saiinarnm ve&igal ad ufumna- viuminftituifle Desire Oflia Tiberina Seven thousand: paff met Laurentum JPici, Fauni, Sc The Latins, the Kings of the Aborigines, the royal city and the trust, from which Latium Latmtque the name was Mcrueruni, then JEnea first into the Laurentian territory fcenfu, as well as the origin of the Roman Empire apudomnes famous, in the Aborigines fled to the coast. It was in the city juncl; a fylva with laurel, to which As yoo-Vi- Lauren- then Di)o Antonmus Augustus Laurence the Senate and the People That their priYiiegia not only CuJioderit, fed also ampliederit, Curator Manius Sabimo Libont Curanttbm Lullius Nepotiano And P. Jemtlio Egnatiano preeff: QJKJLaureiitiuii, Lalmatium. III. He follows after Laurence, tri- Lwinius. the bus was washed away by the waves of the sea LaVmium, founded by JEnea, poft- than from the Aborigmum Rege Latino be- except for his daughter LaVmia will adopt him as his wife, from whom He got his mind; although others iLaVtnio by his brother Latini, others by his wife Aeneas. deno- they want to be threatened. Sedprioropiniojam by the authority of the authors of the first merit between the ca: teras fibi praffcripfit. Cate- once used rum so 8c today Campus Lau- rento-LaYmiwsAndihus opletus, hardly He prepares a safe way for those who come. See Fupracitatos Auciores about these fufe, &in fequentives de Romana gine LaYmiuni A T H A N A S I I K I II C H E R I Where htttliz ccleluS. ffeftattur iki Lavi uwmfuijjc it is used in Nm. ria amne intt- rhythm Caius Cali- appetites of Keron fxtria Forbidden Head cTanzo. aimirahi U di Re- wait flflirt' force old wine seasoned fuiflc pu- stands on that hill, on which today Fa- whether S. Tetronille fpe&atur, to the source of the river Numicus, which ran from the hill flows out of a certain cave, from the sea difli- and then three thousand paflis. But Eph That famous river Numicus, at which Aeneas had conquered Turnus of the young, and of the Ceretano King, after I reigned for three years difparuifle is carried, akis between Godsln- fingers, as if the fubmerfus transfused some fly into the sky blown away by the force of thunder and lightning to those who think perftitiofe Today Nu- mictu ex'guus (there is a river in the name which was of no doubt of origin from La- with Aricino, whom Qiance vo- cant, through an underground passage pulls IV. LaVine follows closely million Paul diflitum Anttum, Vol- a not ignoble town of the Jews, Fortune, the goddess of Aphrodite fice AJculapit fplendidum, Claudit Nero's country field land and sea here with the best and most well-prepared fishes; she wine, corn, every kind of fruit It is the most abundant of two kinds, tametfi iiv clean to both hunting grounds gis, which affect the cultivation of the fields there Antiates, mighty seas, and multiple ship equipment indestructible the customer LDionjius was offended. Today AiRitim Neptlmitm is called, which noneodem
in the place where once, fed adnonullafta- a day farther, yet from the ruins of the old founded by Antius, from which promontory in which the sea bends a little, the name Capo d'Ano still remains. He lives on the western side of the Here you will find the ruins, of greatness and magnificence; list Affi was held as much as possible in this city, ex from which they report the origin of Caius Caligula; where contigitadmirabileilludde He stopped the ship in which he was riding you of which see Pliny, Alianus, of another Blondus tells a wonderful story about Co- commonly known as Nettuno five inibiquotanniscapifolitarum cctami- multitude. Wtfi7 Neptune, says, pifctiim auidein. "PelpoAus" lareo-Pifidth, r II. Vtmtic, At the same time, Amtfmm has a sea of mules and optoms Venatton; ficttt alibt ambli&me falVte ai r j, apns capreiique abtmdantem Captured by Vero ejlduplex, cujwtempora fttut dtVerJa. For when at the first of Spring ftgna Swallows, iyftmulcum ipfis co- turnstiles, now dtBe dfono Voice Quakae, tranjmtffo the infero sea m Italy return, all Antiatus once on the coast Neptune nieenfes conttguts retibtu complet, fe- and finally, each in his own land, i. e at a high price compared to the place, adparttcu- litm rightumpropriam turnstiles fijlula lures, iyquumturma- tim tlhe rettbtts are entangled, fi some the longest flight fejfa outside the net tnfabu- The light fell, and he grasped it with his sharp hand: and hear the voice within the heart, with which it is continued the bird, give some tn whose Jingults hundreds of bujufmodi a1i- A thousand eyes were captured. turnicibus yzc has Pliniusj Coturm- Plinius lc VaaVis: with him he reached the depths of the earth pottus qttam Jttbltmis, flies nonfinepe- rtculo naliigantntm, when approaching of the earth: indeed, they fall upon them, izrhoc they are harmful, and the ships are drowning. Au- They do not fly bumtdojcilicet lygraYis- In regard to the wind, the breeze will still be there for the sake of it body weight fPtrefjue parVas. And in- fra: in Campania the first Verisprinci pious which Veniffe is made. Ahtud also tn An- I went to the field to hunt birds during the autumn. Palumbs, having crossed Italy by sea they are reltclura, some in the woods They reside in Antiatum. Why expert Jimi Neptunienfes net as large as possible tn idaucupti, with great preparation they depend From then on Palumbas i a. I will turn away. for a long time they were gathered under the tree conftdere, jailu stone irclamore terror compels them to fly in the air: while that OVes in a large number of coats While flying, hold the net inftdits they saw super ceronis tut n AJtura Afturam cut off Ih. OLD NO fupcreminere, twisted fundaparVum la- ptdem, Or naturally white, lel gyjifo delinttttm, with the greatest emtttitnt crackling: which they beat the ground like hawks Called Chiluoncs d Plinro, qitibus now I will be the name of the falcons, which are in the lajide they fear the boom and rage, declining They are slow, but they are as fast as they can be they draw near, and make mad m retiafe pnecpitant Stura met not far from here, fcu river and river, boundary The kingdoms of the Wolves Latinorunt, sail this memorable chapter co, while M. Antonius triumviri per- he would flee from execution, M. Tullitts Cicero, from Popilius, a most ungrateful man, whom from death by force of perfidiousness, had delivered catus life gloriously transfacl: am unhappy He brought the death of the dead. Now- In that place, a tragic event is carried on contigiffe Conradin's history T r r t of the Suevi DnraTw-potis brtderici II Imperatons, who pmoim with a changed habit fleeing here inter- ceptusa arolo Andegdienfi, RegeSVo- lie, the human viciflitude of Naples leave a copy of the plaited head. Poft Antium, tefte Strabo, mil- on the shores of the sea in the teeth o. runs the mountain of Ctrceitis, tefte Tbeopbraflo mill. paff around today on Mount Circelio, olimteilePlmio Homer
surrounded by the sea, ho- on the day when the mud and sand he escaped from the crowd; and use in it the daughter of Circe The sun dominated not by any mere fabrications of stories poets celebrated by mythologists, first meritorious fabu- he obtained a place in the mountains: in the right at the top of Strabo's time still the town was seen, Ptohmao Cir- cctum, together with the enchantress Circe I make obfcuris Mmerlxe Cabernis, where the native fcypbus was oftendet, from which Vlyffem ln dictomonte together with Circe staying for a while they were rebuking And use the mountain of all her the bar is filled with pieces, hence Mons. Cir faster Mythology gia Girces Cup TJlyllis V M L A T I u M. i5 Poet maceutrirc, with whom men He loved to transform brutes, to write them down they smoked the occafion. Of which Ubcrtus in Dictamondo fic ca- shines; I went to the mountain, I learned to fast Circepiu Iwltefar lifuoi enchantment, Alumc delfole e della Luna. There is also a mound here somewhere on the mountain lbifepulti. The first 'circus' Tarquinius the Proud, as tcftatur Dtoity- Livius others. In this town fucceffu devaftati time, place The tower was destroyed by the Roman Pontiffs the clan was, at the time, tyrannical: perfected they would have the means by which they would safely receive faith, as Slondtts reports about Gelaftus Pope II I announce today and the five towers were ennobled a small town, whose name is Saitiie Felicitas it is, commonly, S. Felicitd; that birthdays Celejiintts Tapa made it clear to you, as Petrarchba Platina mention. hence nonproculTVjwmr, quemalii when they confound the Aftura, the river fe ex- burdening the sea But when about Volfcorum region, Pomctia Volfcoritm mctropolf, decampis&paludibusPo- metinis, cxterifquememorabilis in In the fourth book we become richer, We sent the leader back. Io-Famh was met by Circeius on his way cus, today Ferona diclus, once Feronta, fcpltlcrum, Towers in Circumcision Ptmificum took refuge than the Lacdæmones colonies qua; fitu-SFero. in the time of Lycurgus, and in the sea gi, ad hoclittusappellentes, votive I sold a caufa in the field of Pometino, one with DeaFeroma facrocondi they gave whose frequent mention Nem faciunt Dwnyfius, 8c Tacitus He was a neighbor by the name of VkusSatura. together with the fountain of Ten Feron, from the bearing of frudibus fic dida: , facro: which places can {omd I will return, Feronix fani gaza alata Feroma, b the city of Terracma D. Volfcis ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Terracina once upon a time xnr. Angipor the Earth cinenfis SourceCha ronius said Theodore cus King tity of the place gaildet rium SS Flaviajry rjomi- liiiic. Amycla- rum registration Volfcls Anxur, that is, at the end of the day that SerVio told you there once upon a time He was the fub of Ittpgker Anxurms the form of a ray and beardless boy, for this The language of the wolves represents Anxur; once a city on the top of the Falebroii mountain it was strong, and surrounded on all sides by the sea, where? however, by bringing in little by little the silt are and snow, fucceflu to the continent of time he grew Fabuts Maximus Diftator Hannibahs hac (Psomam vcrfus with ex- strong impulse country, a minute to England to be fortified by whatever means he could miiiflej thus LiYius lib. tells Today his name remains Tfrracina, however not in the same place where it was once founded becomes, fcdaliquantumvicinior-sea: to whom high and formidable rocks net to the gods, all from Campania blocks the access ca. "Not far from there, Cbaronius, whose virulent breath ho- minks and brutes were made, quit- a man overcome by lust and oppressed the crowd was defiant. Everything around ancient places they are full of doors, and among the on a nearby mountain near monafte rium of St. Angeli, a noble theater It is worth mentioning, to which there is hardly a match in Italy easy to find. Theodore King Goth rum mostehujusloci&fitu&amce-
He is alive to rejoice in strength; whence prster the ruined city, and also the marsh The execution of the Pomtinas is here it is, of which I have spoken in more detail. Between remember the memories of this city with the first the most famous is the Martyrdom of SS. male Ginus Martyrum Fbfoik Domitil- when the exiles in Infula PontiafmAe ex- trafta: , Terracttne the life of the glorious sea the Tyrians were defeated in triumph. anxiety then transferred to the port of Terracine they meet the most famous: AmjcLe a city fortified by the Laconians at the mouth of Captor Pollucis seasoned; of which the same it is said that it is near the laws written by Pytbagor which finally brought the animals to death they would think that they were wrong; one place here would he kill the infinite? kill who would kill them, by their deaths and external harassment from the neighbors im- were asked, whence with none of divine genius. He will tell them, the enemies I will soon kill them; by him the announcement of the terrified wealth, they would kill, they would kill; con- through no wave of incoming waves would appear, at last the fu- co&deceptioncognita, ftolidofane they took the law into confidence, that no one should impose of the like events of the past would announce, to which with all rigor I will be burning even by swearing fe ob- they broke He did not hide his lustful wishes: law enforcement; ab. hiseniminvafi, with there will be no one who either speaks or drinks to announce the arrival, or to fight while he was daring others, a little all the city fell runt, died in silence. If" Whence Lucilius the satirist, Amycla was not carried away by me rtiffe. But to return to the northward journey the wall Followed by Amyclas Turris S. Ana- Jurris s. fiafiugz then Caftrumfpclttncce, commonly f fperltnga, avetuftiflimisruderumcon- fpeiuucs. in the cavities, where: they fpeftantur, peltatum, from which in between the end of the sea Ca- jeta, from Cajeta JEnete nurse from nonnul- cajeta. lis fic difta, according to that of Virgil, Aineia, on the other side of the sea nurse The eternal fame of Cajeta in dying dedtfti Others tell other stories about the origin of this city. tur, and they all make mention of Ho- which has a noble harbor tcmpeftates fortified on every side, whom afterwards Antonittus Pius fuperbis by injecting torches and seat stones infatuated; today is still great for us Litigation keeping silent pcritnmt. Caje's hearth tana V E T U S N O full of titles, and so much from birth ra amamkate endowed, all delicious filled with the rum kind of fuperbk, so that none let such cities yield. The castle is a pleasure to use in the rocks, so too you are inftru&a rcrum nceffariarum, ho- with all his strength to conquer it fpem eripk. a Ferdinando ArragonU Re- V U M L A T I U M? rtoi e Poft exPulfos e 'Rs&no Ncapolitano ts-Tbo. The Gauls were expropriated, by famous men Sj2 Max: Thomas deVio Cajetano, Ord: general who &poftea obcximiafua merits in Ecclefiam, by Leo X'm purple the rum Fathers fanatus alumptus, ea "doctrine: praftantia" shone forth, as in we read his books with admiration. Died this famous Ecclefrilumcno- m, e August fepukufque, juxta. teftamcnti a f, e left Ieges, at any end Cardinality with equipment, outside Ecclesiastes i. Vtrginis fupra MinerPam, in ipfo adi- you to Ecclefias, in this tenor of words: Tbomas de Vto Cajetanus Cardmalis Pnedi. cat. Which Epitaph. into this and that day with great humility I have been a perfect example to my children Mmfiif- rat. reason me vidilie memim, it is the rocks that huge sea adjacent, in which with broken lips cium luculentum prxbet, conftanti tradition, at the time of Domipicspaffio- nis rock-fciflam fuiffe, torch there supported by the pious care of the faithful, by various means of infcriptions for them this is so plain, fckefane confirms. The monument is shown in the same place "The Duke of Bourbon, who I attacked a group of artillery of war, I would cry when he fell asleep here, the fepul- He found the power of all things
to be remembered And use this ter-, itaul- to move forward? material: argument chin prevents Why Terraanam? let us return, to yonder Via Appiamk- the skin, the interiors of Latius more fully developed we cry tnortH Chlifti. Stpul- cbrttmBor- T1 good leaders, glQbo running field, whom however in a few an- you years big Campanine profit to be executed I understand, once upon a time cukifli- mother I'm sorry
huge rubbish, Tem- pkrum, bows, and periphytes ca- daverofa they are taught. This one agreement where tranlier, behold Funds soon meet ten to the poor fat Terracina tired uf bs, of all in the past of the rich monumcntis the best with right office takes, among caytera The way Appiam to defend, a sandwich I'll tell you to congeal He remembers by the nose I'm happy I. S, of fatigue c&nti'a. hd. a from Viturbw Foundation: who aflbccia- tis fibi Privernattbus, Omani rum municipalities to infect he did not care; whence work it was to command when army Lucius Papyrus support from whom Pri In the spring o. occupied, and the nape of the neck Vtturbioy funds fub Plancw fill up they moved
who fall I was terrified of spending to meet to go %wau, Vi- turbine: not at all fe confenfiffe, mucus reasons Demonstrants by faith praised, in confccderation when %oma- nis conftanter they continue. Foundation wines big in price I'm sorry Platnius
c he is disgusted; which: however use a lot at the time to be gathered they couldn't so immediately want defacement wallet c2am, to use I guffawed more greedy, drink they loved as Martial in these words is woven
To this Fundana took the feix of autumn Rich: The mufti burst forth with conful, (sr ipfe drank. Today, you are part of the air with malice, par-- tim to other calamities, which through various world revolutions peflafuk, feredcfertajacet: most ta-' barojfa Sohmam of the Emperor of the Turtles marquis: claftis captain, in to all the citizens who were in the same state at that time were found in captivity and it was not long before this Mia will also be captured by the influx of tin Gonaga, wife of Vefpafiam, son of Colonncui Ferdinandm llex Arraoniet Sc Meapolis Fundana nrbem together with D z places ViaApps this side of Fun Danish boo Tmidtm4 wines city fun dana a Corradino Barbaroira Turkish harpsichord tell me evtrftt. Country Mother-in-law Papa Lake founded Ivlamura townspeople I wish Phormiar eotoco where todayMoh pagwjitfl ejtad March Village phormia I will be born nis, where eti. im ob- truncating is carried li ATHAN in the places belonging to it, because of the finery He had given merits to the Kingdom, fcd she was temporarily fostered by her grandmother: in- fleeing the way, the ffem of Hoftium is washed away. Towers the wild boar was defeated, the fury of the Vroffert M. Antonit of the Colonnenfium family, Du- with the most famous; along with the theme plo, where their offerings were stored, ab- wide with all pretiofa fuppelleclile, city- that they make a difference in their when S. Soter became the first famous Pont: Max: , Continue from both sides Founding itrbis progreflis Vbor- of mine, from the borders of the Vbormian Cajlrum. Galbte Imperatows famous for his birthdays; a The most noble of the FundaiMs lacits fishes, and especially eels the famous tefte Voltnius Here and there thousands beyond prifcx uxhkAlamwrtf ve- the ffe&antur of which Fioratius Catullus often makes his mind they are Followed soon by Vbormite cele- the most beautiful city, where today Mola caftellum, from the mills fic di&um, it is made to the innermost coast of the Gulf of Caietani, pi- and all things of the human race filled with an abundance of neceffarias paTadiiusJ (the land of pleasures of the Omanis marique paflimobvias, dequibusfx- pe, use Depbormiana Villa fua, men- Cicero makes this statement in the epift: fam: where he is buried in anticipation of death although others attribute it to CaFtrum AHura they want to differ, as we have said, the city of the tiquiflima founded by the Laconians, whose the port is said to be the same as that of Gi- ASIA KIRCHERI. lefliigo aumjidti the cube that is, he lives, five thousand fathoms Tbormits di(lithus, it is said ancient Le- and the whole land
pulatilT imum fuiffe ingcns everywhere ob- the road is filled with rubbish, and the wine Cxcubum is praised, which ex facing the bank of the Caietani mountain the bus came. Hence to Minturnas s thousands are counted; once upon a time the most intelligent city, the center of which was Liris Mimuraj who today is called Garigliano, of which still great numbers live in most of the finiftra bank, the rest? , four removed from the sea by a thousand fathoms; with which the early {unt, Jqitteductiis, Am- of the pitheatre, and of the walls of the that great rubbish, some of the nice, and other splendid xdificio rum foundations It happens when that at the GeographosMww lake mention, within which C. Marius, Sullt fleeing weapons rat, however, rescued by Mtturnenfis and He fled to Africa after being drowned in a ship. Tlutar- cbus, "Cicero, Velleius, Seneca, and others who, whosoever Not far from here runcorum, which today is called Seffa, oc- runs on the mountain fast. And here it was At that time the Kings (Pxomano- rum to Lirim and each border, which from Antenna to Ltrim and Si- ninejfam amplimdinis fua; boundaries ha- buifle (plumis refers to, contained fub fe Latinos VoljcosAuruncos cos, Jequos. Maricas. layer bend gold hearts LATIUS THE OLD LATIUS BOOK. S E CUNDUS, Of Particular Places registration. P R M F A T I O iPI mifptbcorumLatu htefumpti of the Tyrrhenian Sea Bf' defcriPtione of lying. already tiartiruLrpm lnmrum by the registration of the liens, I would partake of more places A celebrated, tumin meditutlio, as well as interminisejus fitorum registration will be charged. And although the priciLitii am- fc w ALnea, Albanorumque2 imperioMRej gum Romanorum frajw fiie, to the town of firiclu angufiihue limits concluded: (namtotum illudterrammfpatium, qttod nor the mountains of Prameftini, from the neck of the Aniene, from the south of the Tiber, and mariTyrrhenos, 1ittoreAboriginurn, Laurent Xavinus adLmuviumufque NemufquefczcortaAlbanisTufcu- I am aware of the mountains, we have used them, we have tudo fuit) because still 4R. 0mu. I0 adRempubticamufquefemperno- the colonists from neighboring Latium acceded to the Roman peoples fiofaFtaesl, so much so that Lztiinomen first of all WMontesCirceios, then Ukerius Anxur, Formias, and finally fum, not Lztinommfolummodo dgrum, fed& of the Sabines, Rutu- Iorum, Jed Volfcorum, Auruncorum, Hernicorum, He would cover the provinces of each and every one of them. fdeb In this Book, Latius will give us a more extensive argument, in which, whatever is worthy of trust and admiration, tatum natural and remm information, five egreria memorabilia homi-@ will the veftajpecles, in order and in four places, with the hair of the hair P A R, S ATHANASIUS KIRCHERT P A R S I LATIN FIELD properly rich. C A P U T I T)e. A memorable place among the Albans Rome I met him on the Appian Way. ViaAppia. Hippo road Caracalg Egeris source Horatio' rumCu- of accounts what Of all those that Ro- mana power over all parts of the world she broke the law, she with pri- the worst of all Authors it is the most famous memorial, which The way They call it Appia; than Appiws conful Sritiiditftuih of all ferns in- I will break it to the nations, and measure the miles I will enter into the work once upon a time he had founded irrigate all Latium They go to mountainous places. By this ab He first met those leaving the city a right, Caracallte Cxfaris Hippodromtts, the most complete of all circuses, belifco once fpectable, who then ab Innoceitio X, Pont: Max: in Agonali the market was raised to the ornament of the city in On the left side is a spring, which many EgerL-e Nymph: Protected by his wife They want to draw a fountain, today Gafarellt it is commonly called; about which the bus to whom Charles V Caffar, ante- than from the town of Tunetana Gredcretru, lunch is served in a fumpfifle. Proceeding then from the right com-, several ruins are encountered by the Prxtorians
the swiftness of the caftars, and the sons of Cecilus Metellus the monuments, commonly Capo dt Bolie; from fi- The field is littered with debris impecable in numbers, Horatio's Cttria and their memorable fight: of which Livy Perhaps it came out that Agrettes Ro- mani from Albano agro, AlbaniwcRo- rtano prtedas iii)icem they would do. lmperita then C. Cluilius Albx. on both sides wait for that time I gave up Tullus prxccperatfms ne audi they would do qttain orders first. he was doing fatts Cluilium was to be fixed, and the war was now over poffe Caflra from the city baitd more than five years place thousands of people go around FoffaCluilia anomine I)ucis peraliquot FoflaClui fecttla called ejl, until cuin renomen and thus the quarrels of the times were abolished. In these King Cluilius Albanus dies. Declarer of the Alban Mctius Suffetius they create Meanwhile, Tullus was fierce in chief. death of %egis, the death of Caftris with his army into the territory of Albanumergir. That thing was exciVtt from the statiYts Suffetius, is leads as close as possible to the boslempotejl. with enit binc between each of the three rum on both sides, from Romanorumrtrre Ho- of the accounts, of the Albans woCuriatiorum a battle, as between the two camps, where Owej-Curiatii, Horatiorum "bero twofra- they chose three To fepultttra indefuo- rum by no means paribtts minds liertun- there; since the temperature of the other aucliajter I did it in another way. There are fences where and in what place it fell; two Romans in one in a place nearer to Alba, three Albans, Ro- I'm a fool, fed dtjtantia places where" it is humid. Wxc Livius Memorial Then, Horatio, he went beyond the Alban town. that today you are conic pyramids in- figne Alban Ariciam fpeela- there, according to LiYittm, neither the Courts, nor that the Horaces could indeed: the first to the two Horaces, though in one place however, two divers, Scinterfedifcreta it was greedy: indeed the tribune of the Curiatius suffocating, eloquent, ubiquitous it is gnatum, then both of them between %oma And Albanttm was, when, however, that Pud is thought to have been an Alban town we would like to say nifi forfan bans to the reputation of the Curitiorttm brothers in lust, because of the ingenuity of the mind strong OLD NO strength, which against the Omans they cried out, to be excited, with a new with the flow of a kind of beauty on this and that side the day fuperftite, to decorate voluifle But this is a judgment call to each one We leave FoflaClui. Cluilia fojfa, XaMfta. Vm fupri abolitamfuifleaflerit, nyjius Fiahcarnajfeus I was at the time ad- put the name of the author here vaffe tells; they think of ancient things rum experts, carh on the Via Appia that in co fuiffe, who today is called Cafal ri- cut Further po&fojfam Cluilia tranfeun- tur Aquidutlus, who first came from Lake Lu- hair, or, as a with water future Borilla Clodius no i terfefttn Milo. V U M L A T I II M.
by the winding roads of Appius Claudius Crajfo was assigned to them. For he Cenfor Frontmo tefte, a year from the city founded in after the beginning of the Samni war rwanno3o, CofT. M Valerius Maximus (P. Lucio Murena, this water in the ur- bem brought forth, whose veins he first de-
C. Planau Appit Claudius is brought to the texifle colleague These poftea Claudw in He increased the number of children given to him The water of the ancient spring, from which and beyond water every day: Claud' whom Vefafianus desired, ScAn Tonmus Tius took care of the stuffing: so Register at the Equilibrium Gate for: they are called TIB CLAUDIUS the Druses F. CESAR AUGUST II Germanic. PONTIF. MAXIMUM COURT. POWER III. COS. V. RULE TOR FATHER PATRIYE WATERS CLAUDIAS EX sources. WHO CALL bantvr. coervlevs. et. cvrtivsamillia" RIVER ITEM. ANNIEMEN. NEW. A. MILLIARIO HER SPENT IN. THE CITY to CVRAVIT a. . And another day confirms the inscription: IMP. CJESAR. VESPASIANVS. AUGUSTUS PON IF. MAX. TRIBE CAN. II. IMP. Co's. III. Mr I lost the waters of Curtia and Carulea You are given by the Divine Claudius, he was dilapfacque for nine years The stormy city was shaken; and they are major things to that Aquidudus, who then perT-
fculananrfxafi through Appia Yta to mon- tana tending to meet, as Sc this instead But of the fmguls in particular. See Frontinus in the golden book. of Aqui- I was a friend. Beyond the progressives Albano ap- approaching, they meet a mask, ru- dera 'BoYtlU of the town, which Vtllaboum it was said, then Vtlla Clodius, in midofxni boneDce, ubiinhofpitio slain by Milon Clodius i was: on the right various mounds monuments mints are made; however have been, lest we do he envies us; with the exception of five pyramids in the form of cones to the thieves, of which two: still almost fotegne, to the rest of the corrupt, confpiciun- there on the road between Alban and Aricia, common fame dkuntm fepuldra of the courts, of which I have already I spit out my teeth mouse But already of local artists the decription of this mountain Latius or let's talk In all this before the entrance of the Albans meet to smoke this entire tract with the most difficult buildings, with the most kis, of the amphitheatre, of the circus, and tillifque the most delightful worship of the fuiife, fcpulchra the magnificent old pottery in abundance demonstrate Eft intercasters, amount flags at the gate of Albanenfium in the exit of ScPulcm stealing my height, than Aibs" 3i ATHANASII Albancnfes from tradition certofibiper- they have fuafum, fepulcbrum fuiffe Afca- nii, the first Albct king and founder. K I R C H E R I But for now I have analyzed a few already to Alba Long register us mouse Chapter II Te Ortgine, aJntiquhate, Shu Albs Longs. Mnio Hiftoricorum con- (en(u Afcamu-s JEuetecx Cre- Albie Loiwce founder is supported, against Clu1erius, who uses hifto- riad de. ycvi, Regibufque Albanispu- Ram thinks it's a story, so does Alke Longct, too, another seasoned the matter which Afcanius fuiffe fants, long gis fcilicet ante? rtwztemporibusa (Pelafgis or Evandro founded. Ve- I rushed with him as with doubts and uncertainty the fundamentals of inducing reasons relies on, we are so sure of all the fcri- supported by the authority of the ptorumanorum, id we bring that here and there into doubt no one was recalled. White yes All long founded by Afcanius cxiftimant Tibull. Before the eyes of Laurens Castrum, mu- rufque Lavini is: Albaqued Afcanius seasoned Longa it was To whom Solinus wrote c. Confused by Afcanius Alba longa. Livius Afcanius in abundance in Lavinia don't already flourishing, as things were then, and nkitani scream, mother fire noliercx re-
li. juit, noVam ipfe aliam fub Albano he founded the mountain, when he was dfitu porrecix m. the village of the mountain city called Longa Alba ta. to which Dionysius, Stra- bo, Plinius, Aurelius Victor. Whose to be stored; occafio fic fe has: Afca- after completing thirty years in Lavinia nis, remembered the city's conden- give time to come, the words are Au- owe Al-i-elii Vicloris, from the number of pigs. birds etc. He was born white, carefully bowed neighboring regions, speculating on the mountain editor, who is now from that city, I enter founded as, Albanus is called, chntatem He shared it, and that from the form, which is so in longttmporreSiaeft, long, exco- lore you were, Albam cogncmunaYit. Whence Virgil I was a great iiifentafub of the sea-shores Tngtnta capitumfostu enixajacebat White, reclining on a bed, surrounded by white born Htc place will be Vrbis, requiesacertA snacks, From which you deny Vrbe three times to those returning years Afcanius creates the famous nicknames Al- bam Therefore, the founder of this Vrbis fcanio no longer doubt bet, no one knows the whole of the Omani hifto- attempt to invert the you and the judgment of the powerful Hiftoric men- to fall nori poffe, certainly for me I swear. you and the place founded: the city must be acted upon, as to what his true course was be clear Of the Place Place of AlbctLomit. Many have been in that error until now they wear, thinking, White Long from Afcanius put the fuiffe in that place, where it continues to this day and every day And it is said to be an Alban; Albancnfcs thus femper hanc fibi verita- Albanus
they had a periuafa tem, as fupra op- A"'fbf pidi portamlapidempoferint, this ga- the teftem of the matter, that is to say, thirty fcrophams surrounded by pigs, like the first its unbreakable origin and in this place bile fymbolum Who the exact topography of the city he threatens, he is a far different eifitumattri- buere, ipfa with the clarity of words future
V E T U S N O V M LATIUM, the future will be forced. Veriim utgenuinum hu- the right to all the famous starches of the city location, all diligence those that I examined most closely, I went to the Alban field, the loamy places in fpexi, also with the Authors fcriptisritecombinando, finally ve- rum I discovered the genuine place, which I'm going to go down. First of all that Monte Alban, in the city of They will write a long seasoned album, 2o mill: paff: itffcoma diftitiffe. Yes, Strabo bxLonga: AOXCIHOV AAbffll QJi JZt"' to- mjorm. fcoy j a'scj. Afcanius Alban condidifle m Mount Alban, who as much from Rome as from Ardea it stops at an interval. When therefore Alban today, to use oIim, not mill. puff: he will certainly miss the White Longain in Albano I was not seasoned at all, clearly it is clear let us examine the words of Dionysius, then Alkt Longa so graphically expri- of the mind, so that no one can think of him opa iu zcSioxdicli, T 7T0te(t)C TOUJTCt SVO-CtAUTOV xoiQvtg. . ToTi yd%op&ao 7i; ozvv inytj gjy, rs? Jiivn rtcfliayci? . cwtIw chd uAa- mdtfuv dvoiyofjSpav xzmHxilcq to w" 0lm in: luit Clm would be built apudmon- tiwmgri- tem i? exltrucata lake, so as to medtum and the third would occupy the field, and Veluti Long
The walls were protecting the city, unfaaleca be destroyed Na? n mountain admodmn altws is, i? protected by nature Lake too deep and great, from which you bring back clostns infubjeSios camposquadifpen- it is made as much as its inhabitants want. Yes Dwnyfws. Since then still mountain and lake fuperfmt, defituurbs Of course no one can doubt touch But let's talk about the little words Dwnyfu: for first he says, White near the mountain and lake excavated fuiffe, qua: they are not to be understood in this way, whether from the southern or northern side it becomes founded, fed inside the mountain lake, so as mcdimn, are words Dionysus, intcr and husband, ob- to hold: to become more ex- determines the actives, adds, thus intermon- tem lacum fuiffe a; dificatata, cui ex on one side the mountain is completely high that, from alterapartelacusprofunduse the great inftar of the walls, or from the ipfa they would be well fortified by nature: and this padto from every crowd of supporters acccifu, tutrice naturefaciledere there This fane registers in the Alban ca- can't give at all, when& Lake the mountain is more remote from it than The words of Dionysus are to be adapted. I therefore say that Alkt Longage- White- no fuiffe among that mountain, Sf when, today, Lago di Cafelro Gandolfo vo- cited, in the place where today Pa- trum St. Francis dcObferVantiaMona- the future lives, whatever, whatever go Talaiwlo yocant, adjacent: this for instead of Mount Alban, that's it, CaVus editiflimus fane perardus afcenfu facia fua moleufqueadlacusdorfum, a space almost flat, about half a thousand Italian miles in breadth makes and in this fpatio, that of the mountains and Iacus is a village, Albam seasoned fuiffe, irrefutable argument to is gathered from Dionyfw. But the white long one called fuiffe, e6 White w Long born that the ivy of Dorium mounts, and the smoke of K latwlo ufque ad caftrwn Gandolfini, It has been continued for a long time and the god Dionysius, and all that innumerable thigh-high fans, .xdium the walls were then first woven, when Alcxa? ider WAS om. Mnx. vtiibtA. worn out for years within the shell of the mountain by Caflro Gandoifino ad Patatiolum and a road convenient for walking, nor not fummx of pleasantness, flattened fcopulofis drafts, and rude remotifs he opened the river and the bush; in which And also- The whites Long fittts Gco-
metricK rtttionibw niitn. there A T H A N A S I I the floors are still covered with stones vo, feuteflellato, the work you instilled in an exceptional way decorated, magnificent: magnificent slow fymbol, fpe&anftiK so not only as far as the lake is concerned the edge of the edge of worship, fed dcclive Sgitrt deep craterisadlacusufqueripam, jbttijiau. fanorurn ftruduris, CKterifquexdium fabrics, such as capitals, periftylia, beams, columns and arches the way the pieces are woven together tiliimum fuiife cenferi dcbeat. And that the whole thing might appear more clearly, the whole space from the foot of Mount Albam in that jn place, where 'f'Ju- tended, both to the edge of the lake, ad which Monafterium Tatra S. Franafia, Talatwlum Colonneniium Principe when it is done, take care of the smoke, common poor, of whom one makes z feet, that is feet, fire iioo pal I found, within that space, as to the width, Longa fuiffe made, I conjecture, from the words of Dionysius. Determine the depth of the pool as well Dimenfus in the same place, slope his decency and the water to the shore: when the reftamlineam Sopaflus, id is pzo foot I found from which then according to trigonometric legcs of palms, but of bays, on each side to the normal line, fathoms I found the latitude. But in order to let us return to the path of safety, I say White Long all that fpatia, that among the diiflum Pa- trum S. Franafia and both to the abbess Vatnim of the Cappucans, and further in the sea gine crater lake become rubbish, who they are found there by the miners, It is to be believed, to be occupied. While this time I stopped researching, God and the Fathers Ord. St. Francis introduced them A deep underground crypt fornicate to fight, inquaexpra: du- a huge stone monument Tuiif h then oftenunt, that the Antiquarix of the matter ftf! IJUOi vd periti fepulchrum Anci Martti IV alu pumnt l t c rr The Anci of the Marmans believed that the King was fuiiie; I KIRCHHl but more verifiably the ipfms of Tulli Hofldii fuiffe, I gather from the Authors. For as Dionysius says, Tullus' ancestor M. Ho- reason that one of the tcrgemin rat, with horse mis, sends White, Mum, like a retired friend, cries out, enter mcenia, the citizens are restored to power, to overthrow the city with the foundations, nor any to spare by private or public artifice, with the exception of the fans: whom bx a fe dcftru&x vcftigia to contemplate- there, as well as hunting ceret, eo fe contuliife, not the lowest: no- ta: The authors find where and disease infected with fate, they say, ibidcm- which was hidden; and they collect from them In the words of Dwnyfii: Except for the fans. in one of which is seasoned as desired was; perpetuaiuiapudpofteros, who they were about to liven up, a relict memory. At that time she was the most famous white woman The long, celebrated memorial of so many writers of the mind, from Afcanius, from JEnea Ancbifie son daughter of Creufia Vritun It was founded by Dionysius, the Roman Empire of Albajo J n r of towns ongo, when per poit xdincatio- iur, r0j and at that time the frenzy of the people tia popibufque, ca: tera pluri felicita the river au&a fiflet, thirty towns mother of the Latins, 8c of the whole nation at that time the prince, anoviflimafua the colony was destroyed, today also ia it remains carried away. To whom Livy wrote. Egrefios or Vrbe Albanis, lloma- nus pafiim public and private redifiaa reach the vial, and one hour four hundred the work of the rum years, with which Albzfteterat He gave it to destruction and ruin. templk, however God, for thus had he chosen the edict, it is temberatum: thus LiVtus Whence Dionysus son as to the time when it was called Alba, from the fmium Livy's tradition differs, he enimoo LiwS' years, he says, after thirteen ftetifle; Dionysius only four hundred here. But when Liviu-s only washed away the centenarians could have been years old But Dionysius could have had five hundred thirteen exempt, which; they do years OLD NEW LATIUM. no
years, facilihocpact. oconcordaripo-Jjam ad Albani montts fitum they grind But here they are laughing at the fit of Alke; as we move forward. C A P u T III, Monte Albano, its fitness, nature, projection. I did not go to Mount Alban nus, than Albx con- given: with some con- He was a trooper. Some Mount Albamtm for Algido fumpfe- those who pretend to be hallucinating, in it will be taught to the fruitful. Others the mountain this is abundantly in place, wherever The monastery of the Cappuccini is extirpated; Fed when it is not a mountain, fed the brook becomes, and the mountain Alban, near thirdly, what a fool, a fool, and diffikilis quoqueafcenfufit, ftatimvel They are repulsed by the words of Dionysius. I mean Simmons therefore mount Albantm, not another tn Awam. r x v l l v i. e. , which, today, on Mount CaPo sing which was the registration of Dionysius Let us read carefully, it is so true, that the infenfatx of me is indeed seen, who to him dare to contradict. And it is said to Livy, Lugum Albct Longx, because it is fubipfo White is prepared, as Chorographia he teaches the whole of Latium fpe&able fuiffe, already It was duly evident from Dionysius; what vcro lPo'e- tt him now a mound, now a hill they call out, that meter caufla torch to: when really, to use from its dimension it will open a little later, it becomes the last the greatest Latit mountains do not sink to be counted For in him the omans of the rufticing coufa and both the sea and the earth the tentacles were quickly destroyed, Martialis heretofore pretends: For this, collibjts ute- smile Ca-fai-, is- hence Trivia, profipi- sis thence Thetin. And Statius Dardania: howYis fub the hills White {proper to them, the great Duchy immune system And then, at home, to take care of them really Sujftcerent e He calls this one, and others, ofew Mountain j0i loYts Latiarit; inhocferias Latinas, de ps Latia- plum fuiflc very famous, then IoYis, then Livy mentions the moons of AI- Bano, he said, were on the mountain from heaven a grove of trees near the temple. Etc. Albani iy M. Popilii La: natiS; ,do urbk condt- tte, fcribit, in that year C. Cicerejum Orig, gnaJfe, fcptemmillibttsCor{orum ctefis, captts i-joo, elnctort. .t, m Mouttx. Albanomonte and Juno Moneta: than five years after he was married to O. Psti, iy M. Junii Pennii, Votoper- he broke out with dirt. Whose mention Dionysius did. On Mount Alban nonis extgtta tedes fiupra menfam qttan- dam dedicated, qtue while Oriey. tem folem clarct, it is adfpteitrion coCncrfa; pro- juTotiT digium ftne fat celebrated: use that that LiYim na. rmt, Yfiosfibinonnullol and I uttered a great voice in the grove of the Alban mountain, where he there, according to the traditional rite, the Albanians would make carriages. 'frdtgu, in os. tn Afbano monte la- lnonte Albano. binofque pidibuspluiJfe, Liviusli. aJfcrit. Quamx veroreligionisfuerithicmons, Cicero in a speech proMilon, where deClodus occifione a"k, fatmonftrat No, he said, it is bttma- I am not confused, nor mediocre, ludtces; Immortal care of the gods tla. ffijligiones me bercule ipfie, qua tllam Helluam to fall Ytdcrunt, com- Mons ai. of light, os, I say, I lament and protest Vofijue of the Albanians the ruins of the fields E z People jc ATHANASIUS Topuli Romaniyoorf equals, which il- le pmceps amenia, efis prostrattfque fanWifimh light, fubtruciionnm infdnh molihts oppreffcrat; ycftrcttumane. relmones Vtguerunt, Desira Vts la- luk, which ipfe omnifcclcrepolluerat you- that from the edition of Monte Sancle Latialis Iup- piter, whose milk, ncmora, finefqtiefe- piomm ucfario Huprdsrfcekre maculd- rat, for a while to wash his eyes aperwftt. isrc Where apcrte monftratj lo- when you are a fan of light, of Deorun filled with filth, the ruins of which also whether on the top of the mountain fkpius tne fpafiaffe I remember: most yejo Dtaiue The temple was celebrated in the same place, when We will act with fear of Aricino, it will be made clear.
"Jutbomm x qUitms is clear, how the Authors fiafimm they were to be hunted, some of whom were white 'u'JZ. A long inframontane, another in the mountain fundamfuiffcdicunt Below the mountain for they are faithful, inasmuch as founded below the yoke of a higher mountain fuiuinmontever6pofitamfuiffe, re&e they also say, with the lake of the crater, fire the village really and properly, around which Alba Longa was difpofita, became a mountain, the roots of which go back to the Albanians Let them stretch out the plain of the plain. But already some of the Fridays Latitm in this let's do it while standing on the mountain, so as not to let us see the lebria fefta praterijffe FerU Latina, and their origin. Mount Alban especially Ferix La- made tin famous among the hungry cmx pollAlba destroyed atotiusLrtW the people rejoiced to be celebrated in it. Phani Epitomator: As ygmj [cj kitotaj isr Albanus tu Italy lo- cus, in which they were made. interweaving, while loco o5ToV(, promontelocum p were present: acq; so I turn, from is "White- nus in Italy wjow. Et Strabo; In Albano on the mountain of the whole Imperti I compel the council, Ko- hands with the Latins lavifacrificajfe fcri- bit Scd prx omnrbus to others graphically not Latiaria iftafefta (so for the Holidays K I R C H E R I They named the Latins from Latidri, to whom they were made) writes Dionysius. Their origin is thus fefe: Tarqutniiis 0"g fe- The proud founder of these, Latinct gcti-tinarum, Having obtained your command, when the refractors Volfcos, Hernicos, Sabinos, J. quos, csete- rofque, into the politics of the Latin union He will not be able to compel them, not to another with a certain political acumen and cunning ufus, that which for a long time has been he drifted, at last he finished. Ambassadors therefore he went to the Wolfs and Hernicus, also friendship and friendship waiting: the leader of the wolves only gents the Ecbctranes and the Antiates meet; Hemicus may offer long prayers to the universe decision makers. But as the eternal covenant of the covenant is firmer fta they should be bilious this mo- adjimgm- while he found. xommune temple 5o- fM IjiiZ and also of the Wolves, who are of the foci registered in the number of conioederators let out He depicted that every year there they were feasting while driving the group of sticks together, and they should partake of common works; and to use, when about feasts and feasts there, he saw no one's difficulty in poffe, so I was also invited by the delight of the They accepted the offer with equal hearts. nes And so the meeting-place He was almost in the middle of these of nations, mous exalted Albct immi nens, where the wild years are celebrated to be rent, and hitherto enduring from all force om- unless and they would be free; too, what and who the people in eafacracon to give, and to receive a portion they should They were also, Dionyftote- iFeria- fte. and they contributed to their participation on those holidays the people, some lambs, others feos, some milk a certain way, a kind of confimable book: the common force of all one country of which a portion for each people was given And they sacrificed for universal and they had given him a gift 1{Oman. V E T U S N O ta Fiers %omam- Latin (by whom nndmomm on this and every day (laFiera) name, fiumfin, uo nuncjjnas appCllare f0]ent, ita[K manfit) Varronctefte, day of conception said by the Latin peoples, to whom m Alba- no mountain exfacm carnempeterefuitjut with the Romans, Latin waters Latin? diSitefunt; which confirms c. And the flesh, SerVio tcfte, Lati- they did not call for Vtfceration; here and there greedy for a portion of this kind of flesh they were looking for something bel- the whirlwind of fntervenients defif- fent, by the pontifical decree again inftau- rats fint, because the ambassadors from Ardea in they were resting on Mount Alban the flesh of the Latins was given to them by the manner of folly don't be shy where indeed, and on which mountain I lie Wounding i7 from which then through the false roads to la- with each of them almost de-
is fired; therefore and precisely here the field on the mountain and that should be said to be crushed, when the white of this mountain is seasoned we will find the little fool. From Alba but to the Lake and to each other no less dcfcenfus, than from the diclo field or monKjJ wdeprehcndatur One dlrEculty of the People's Forum. c. p. hit the Latuue, it is against the verfum at Authors: all in the Alban mountain cele- the bratas go fuiffe; that from the top it is not necessary to say of the mountain, tex a smaller plain, than which: He must have so many people; nor on the slope of the mountain they protect, with fcopules the infantry could not take the place. Therefore, examine me not with his dead strokes, I finally concluded, there is no other place to be filled on Fridays I could have done it, but what day Gw? HaZbL they call the smoke of Hamubalis, because Han- Us he was going to worship nibalma, with one vcrfo I was in the army; therefore to animate the fus soldiers, %oma in the meadow and the prize, be the father-in-law they wore fe, showed Eft here easily three miles round capable of celebrating fairs, due to mag- for the leaves of the trees, to crush a mouse, and not only because of the greatness of the creature water; abundance, and meadows the charm of the givers, exceedingly delightful funny So he went back to the mountain turcelebratx, not at the top, fedpau below, everywhere widened, he makes this field, fuiffe, Authorcs contenunt; fed fi then they do not determine as& I would explain this difficulty from Authors combined reports at last I found another buiffe, than what town today what they commonly call, 0b- hold, fcopulofo montis side hum And the reason of the name He says: for with the people who are on fire how many times the celcbrari were intermingled with leaves, not all were happy with the territories with the help of so many people rias confluences, a neighboring town it is verifiable, that from Fenis populorum Latink, Forumpopuli they called Plinius c. killed tates he says Dionysius he said, in the forum of the people the house of the commonwealth faith, into which to turn rent, and her, while there for a certain time conVenircnt, with a lightning bolt But Fuifle is not so much a town as At the end of the street, there was a gathering of five cafés in order of accumulations, according to &locfls and fpace allowed to each xdi- nas, five Foro-populenfes, crowd fomi- an expert in civilization. He sits down let us return to the mountain; it is common today Monte CaVo is called, which continued not yielding to the former height, conti- tUm' a shield, which I bring Algidus Efle, to use m will be given to those who are fertile; and between two mountains, as if within a con- a kind of charm, pleasant pkne de- E fun A T H A N A S I I liciofus Hannibalts Camptts, pafcuis the most abundant exiftit, about three thousand rium in circuit capacas, cuiexocidua part of the mountain the ftellum is attached, which tate of any of the Popes, even now Rocca di yulgo Qs[occa di Papa dicla, Colon- the prince of the jury is thrown All this tra&us fylvofus and with the waftiflims caftans on each side, gno the town's profit. There are those who put this coffee in Algulum tant, fed to use a little before They are stunned, just as I am instead, we will demonstrate, ubigenuinum let us decide the fate of Algis. From this op- Pope K I R C H E R I the entrance to the Hann'-Campus is made with a foot i r i Hanniba- the way was given to large thorny ferns and to the top of the mountain, of which in; to amamlji- mute The paved road hunc ulque wounds From ipfo top most delightful Z' erttcem tfatte mon- and from every side he feaperits the profpecTois, which tisAlbani the univerfum of Latium, the sea far away and thee a little boy, 'Pontia, and beyond. mafi infatas infulas, Circeios mbnies, A cage of each, with a single afpecl: u easily comprehend, in which the Wolfs, the Sabines,
both lakes, in which the whole may be the sea But this from Monte Alba- no fate di&a fint Chapter IV Lacnus Albanus, every origin, and wonders. Quantity Killed Actts Albamts, to be used first his teeth were oftenfum, fi- then he has a fub Alba Longtt, very deep, inftar shell or of a crater, within which mar- gine on each side it will wear off; whose sloping side, of course, so to this day and every day, villages, monks of light and heat bus, but not vines from that side he sees the fettentrion, he is confident; c indeed of ancient dwellings fat fufe was diift in those who practiced: I now know something about his modern life let us produce is around odo thousands of streams, and the edge of the crater has a higher mode, a lower mode matter; where today MonaUeriumS. Fran- ctfa juxta Palatiolum, commonly Palatw- lo, below the roots of the Alban mountain, it is the highest there, where the sea he reaches, the humblest; depth through pend icular ciem lacus, feet, but the smallest It was discovered by me at feet. Tribes on the edge of the crater fplendefcit Cano- twice: the first is the Francifcan Fathers rum near the Palace; between this truth Lake Ercmito on the slope of the mountain cofta extrudum; great Eromicola: development is frequented by newcomers. Another Father Cappttccinornmciu. o in there is nothing more delicious in the field of Oman cannot fpe&ari: viridariis, fylva, am- breasts, fountains, and of torches, most ornamental; m whose on the other side of the garden, on this side the sea, on the other side a, and the universe hides the fire of the field (PxomaniJ the diphtridusin comes out open. Thirdly is a canon, of another order of St. Francis cifci, not very much a ccenobto Cappuccino Distilled rum; that's a little poftequi- there is a town, Gandolfi, or this celebrated by the name that the Pontifical Rufti the faith becomes strong, to whom Alexan- der Vll Pont. . opt. max. the last He impoverished the magnificent crown while the palace in a larger form He stretched out the Bafilica with a bow and a bow I was fuber, and not even better than this the monuments of the time He raised a pillar from the foundation; the way filled with all the charms, Palatiolum of each, the rocks of the ruins after the ruins of the castle, he fled; dig whether the death of the Pope. T The work of the Majesty But having fought on the edge of the mountain, Lactose ingrowth gradually de- let's do it mouse Caftruni Gindol phi from the law see fumma ma- nineteen hundred cultivated mcntium Pope rum rela xation, because amccnita so surprisingly oppose whether Lake AI find out jVtgatic
V E T U S N O mus pifcatoria, lintribus, fcaphifque then to pifcandum, (for piffus abounds with baptisms, especially with eels) as well as to relax the spirit of sailing grace, proof Ldcus, use it was discovered to me as an explorer, he has a farm in the town in some way, in in some places more despicable, inqui- a deep-seated toad, in one even an unexplorable ma- xime from the side of the palattoli five Eremitorti, of which a little before, that on the slope teris. Yitas broke out with love, where life is closer; tying together the delicacies of the garden several to enliven fe telociprobefan cultivated, attracted. Sub of this Hermit, therefore, The depth of the lake is unfathomable and found that the water was exceedingly white montts vifceres with a great rush adinftar to develop the river; arguments to the clearest, within the mountain in- a genus of hydrophyla Trcfmii. the fact that we use the continuous flow from the sea VUMLATlliM. 3p to be conferred with the truest miracle, because 1ul- filled, itanonhuictantum, fed& Kemorenfi, whom the fpeculum Dianx vo- cant, through underground the male is fed with water; really fun dus touchi nonpoflitbolide, caufam I think, indeed, that the intensity of the current water: take away the lump of faeces; and so indeed experience has taught me: for what a string to which he was tied bolis x. a. Tcl Tug i$a. g, five to perpen- the little boy was on the verge of oblivion
with which I would move the mountain just the edge of the open lake plain he declined somewhat; with which the clear flow some reflux water; was depicted: whence it was plainly evident to me, how once upon a time a great prodigy overflowed tis Jacus could have happened. True when this coffee is memorable for all the starches if he had been, he must be described in a few words I married In the middle of the heat of the war i which %omant Luke with the Elders to decide the smoke of things Plutarch says in Camillus, Lacui Albano acctdtt, with quoYts ra- gart caufa irrationalityexrerumnatttradu- cla was lacking, he was afraid of Vorem. It was Mfias extrcma isr rapid, nor cdcfitbtts increased water, nor the wind very turbulent au- And the lake, that is, the river, and the rivers and streams the fountains which he drank ttalkfrequently, already completely dried up, a little part tim traversing a thin wave, fluYiique for aftatem, utfemperfit, bumilt&de- preffo aheo were carried eCce La- cus Albanus, who did not lead the origin very high He pours out the wine, nor else, in vain, with the fertile ones surrounded by hills, nothing, nothing d(]ma, inftatus, mantfeftbintumuit, tta in order to reach the Adorf mountains, the mos undtque quarret the mounds: at the end of the efiu however, he was shaken by some wave. Id the first time was bubulctfquemira- the ass: where the Verb dorft I grague, quoVeluti iftbmo Jeu agrere d fubjeclis fields ar- it is cut, refracted, perfected and planted gno with a rush tn the sea flowed; then not The Romans only tncuftt terror, Ve- rtim ettam tott Italix Ytfus elt magnum what do they mean? Valerius Maximus i. c. When in the long and bitter war of Vejen the Romans were forced to be captured within the mmud nonpojfent, and that delay nonmtnusobft- denttbus qudm obfeffis intolerabilts Ytdere- tur, exoptau Ytctortx iter mtro didigto They revealed the most mortals; fubttb entm The Alban lake, nor the warm waters of the Vtticmii increased, nor tilla tnundattonc ulltus amnts U'a' helped He exceeded the manner of the flottum. Whose ret exploramlt grace Legatt ad They reported the Delphic Oracle to mijli, I was protected by him, so that the water of the lake was poured out they spread through the fields: ftc entm Vejosm the Roman populace was powerful; pnufquam Legatt would renounce, .Arufpex Vegetium d miltte noftrb raptus, in caftraperlattts, he had decided the future; that is, Ltyus says, Arufiex bts Verbis Vattci- nantts in the manner of dining: frtufquam ex Lake Albano would be emtjfa, never able turumVejis Romanumjfc librts fatalt- bus, fic dtfciplma Hetrufca traditum ejfe. And now the Romans by human desperation fataDeofqueJpeclabant: with ecceLe-rati Det- that's right out of town raked, a Romans Rcp. from jlritHm. ATHANASII iDclphis Vcmunt, strong oracuh adfc- congrucntcm refponfb the captive of Vatis, of which this was the smoke: Roman, water Albana caVe lacu cotttineri; caVe in maremanarcjtio jiuminc Jitus; I am sorry of those who wandered through the fields, moloT' Jiingues. VidedehifceCiceroneml. i Di- To the Romans yuu fufuis they hand over. Atquehacoc captured t r. r r K r caiione 'Jomani Hetruja vatis dicta ie- with perfumed skin, admirable fane artifice, water through a channel into the plains they led us away; civitasverfa to you Furius Camillus the Triumvirate phans won the victory it is, since the city was founded}iSo, a car white horses in a carriage, which was before him no one had done it. I will sit in the canal we are ordered to choose Canal, Eft here Cdnalts on this and every day fuperftes, whose length and the breadth of the smoke from me I request to be explored. Under Castle Gan- I descended the mountain at about feet At the lake he met a great crowd the multitude of trees, which; less the mouth of the canal at the end of the expert du- ce was discovered; enter the hafcearbores With that, they bowed down to the fcapha The nation met the arch of four stones a huge amount of adiftar ta: conftruder, than where you please, then Behold the breadth of the Canal rum fe fpedandum prcebet Al- a degree for the different parts of the earth the condition is different, already inferior,
only higher, where it is the greatest, ten caught in the palms of his hands. It passes here Channel fub ipfo Cajlro tre- nearly a hundred feet deep, and continued for about fathoms in length eat through various crevices and diversions la, finally m the field of Albdno exit for it trembles, near the mill some day, to whom the wheel was used to crush the grain it boils with the grinding of a millstone; ex from here to the waters of Sylvta if the Tiber is mifcetur Water Canal five fathoms deep has although I have no doubt, for cx- K I R C H E R I in the last few years, now higher, lower compc to laugh for in this year i66z a depth of barely fathoms he had We have two doubts here from some they must be propofitafolvenda cold mdighfa whether that prodigious Lake is exun- giving force to nature; will happen, and how suffocating, then Arufpicis Hetrujci, and the prophecy of Delpbic's oracle was so sure then does the future strengthen the event? Al- it is terrible, with the teftimony of the Authors The lake of fupracitaru did not have at first there will be no outlet, nor any other river entrance, how, or for what reason by which nature the efficacy of the praster is infiltrated He swelled the mood, and then took it for granted ficca Adj)n2zrefpondeo: With all At the time of kindness, there is no time pore of this kind of prodigies lives; as when you want seasoned Jlba, while Pa- three Gods five Pcnates from LaVinius in Deportation of the recent city of Alba rent, after that day they are lost; with the moon's face in Mon- tis Alban's temple, which; the west fpedtabac, the second day to fpe&are the east vifa iit: with the maiden of the gods they are alive to shed wine; he heard voices animals of fucceflu rerum tium: rain stones, lakes, mud; and his daughters, to whom the Hiftorics the records are full: &as few I will prepare myself, I say she is a Prodigal by no means all things to idolatry that propaganda in the minds of the Gentiles have been ordained, (i by Divine or Gaelic virtue accidiflentj God cold to evil and to discover sins quxpaflimin facrificiis there, they seem to have cooperated in some way fent, that the divine nature fights: why at all with St. Augustus cask l. de Civit: It must be said of God, ple- raque hujufmodi, quex evil fpe- And they went away, affected by the desires of the human race cowardly; V E T S N O V M L A T I ll M. ft. iffe; quiutiarincipiodivinitatisam- I fefto figno, there a certain channel from- He labored bmone, so he did nothing, as was said in Effe, by which Lacus fell into Lactium she exhibited wonderful results tion, with the help of God's judgment, it would propagate in the minds of the Gentiles; in prodigies, however, not of pure birth tx efteclibus to cande fuperftion in the light of the faith of poor men implantandanx, ufum fuiffe, is folus in- will be done, who has a thousand skills, a thousand flood numtechnas cacoda? monumnonno- vit: vide qua: abounding in prodigies natural origin, then in Mundofub- on the earth, and in the work of prodtgiofts crosses inVefitbtts oxen annoi66i. , Neapolt Yfis, fcripfimus And this as to first doubt DitUtm. As to the second: I deny it plainly Dionysus bringing the dishes: LrtcOT not before the warm mountain exit drink, and take no water from any other place. For as in the underground world, ria defoiptioneampk deducto, exercise the clays of the likes of the secret fua with. underground trade routes, which the bus is filled and emptied. Siena Lake Albatross was not filled from any other source, certainly contrary to all nature: principles, him to such an immeasurable height intumuiffe, it must be said: new water in the same place it must be admitted that the production is fuiffe, or give: with the help of the cup filled with fuiffe, which neither can nor ought to be admitted; when not folum God Opt: Max: fed ipfe da: mon pure nature: using the laws there to make such a mess. How, then, did he become I took the folding. And first of all it is certain, Lake Sfiterrct neither La- cuuaiwfij Im. discharge Cultivated
eusAuLfi" nuncnonvolumper fubterraneos me- we allude to water from the sea, to burn to take fed received by hidden third ra: channels spread outside; he taught me in the Lake of this explo- for reason: for I have come upon the bolides, within the canobmm of the Cape the light, the place where you are completely within the ditosmontis retreated, mani- He would exonerate Nemorenfem; ipfe Nemetini to use Genani, formerly an inhabitant of Cyntbia: teftantur, to the north of Lake Ri- pam boiling on the shores, with which or this they are of opinion, or from Mount Alban, out of his lake in that place ri, both of which can be said of Lake Vtemorenfi is not covered with snow for a thousand feet from Lake Alban, in fertile waters we will say more. Altcr metus Lacii a fubterraneus repicts Tufculammi the grove, where the innumerable streams flow, the fountain and those who the confluence of rum and the Marana river, and the water to be poured into the fire no one is ignorant; indeed from another place than from a lake, or from a mountain hydro- they do not trace the origin of the phyla. The mountain, therefore, was not yet open, the lake through two hofce cultured ncgotiant nature it was wrong. But how then pore Lake to such a depth, uf- which swells to the effusion if he was able to do it, it is necessary to explain it.
I mean, so and so what dmm if immoderate, not at all, use a little an- 'p&Um- tequoquequeinfinuavi, aut arufpicisLL- im ticinationi, or Delpbia dractdiyivmti adfcribendum becomes, fed dasmonum infpi- the reason that he used inside the hidden lake pene- I made a big deal that year not ig- they were shouting, thus preoccupied by the Omanis. by the divination of the mighty mountaineers lack of hearts which they effected, as long as all care: thoughts in so far they were converted, and all undressed as a human being, what would they do, kill to that they took refuge at last, which he was rumfuperftionafylum, Del- pbtcum I say the oracle, and so on Prophecy of the Gods and Dearness when they were animated more fervently: un- of the growth, pure F naturx cremttitttm invejliga there A T H A N A S I I nature's work doribus fub prartcxtu miraculous event it is easier to impose dsemons they used) fuiffe fic oftendo For when Dionysius, Lilius, In another year, the aftas were scorched and by no means it was subjected to rains, and the fountains of Sc Most of the rivers have dried up was doubtless an indication of a more violent or in- foltealicujus in iubterreftri Oecono- mia fadtas change', which, velterra: by the movements of the plow, or by the underground by fire driven channels, water: others the canals have been coadx, which when they did not find them, they were discharged by them only lake growth caufaffe di- co. In addition, most of the subterraneans the fury of the winds, whose force is unfathomable as they emerge from the bottom of the sea, the waters flow more violently into the deep uf- that they would press upon the inundation; nor Lagoons Kircher the child of the incessant floods examples are missing today. Lac Vadumnts', as in Hctruria noftra tradi- we say, at certain intervals of years swelled up, as if the edge had been transplanted everything will be washed away; every day Platnius tefte, so it happened today. That that in Lake Nurfno, to happen by faith we heard worthy, and as if prodi- nature's boon fpe&aculum fufe de- kribit inftta Italy Albertus Leander Eph m CarniolanonpioculLabacocam- pus, who every year it is flooded with pores, like those before the party And for the hunting of hares, I am already a pifcium catch he becomes fit. What kind of Na- tures of prodigies and reasons He had trusted to do the same thing, and he fled We know the Subterranean world, where a river rose up in a lake, whatever he can be trusted, he finds the record. C A P U T V, Te Vrhe bodie Albano tmncupato, and his Terriiorio. S? Many believed, Al M; S hii-huvn pndem m loco litum. todemitl locofitus quo once Alba Longd; m quo most hallucinate
it was demonstrated to be a fupra. It is conflated for from the Authors, hancpoftdiru- so the old white with many starches, pri- the confluence of the villages, and the princes I (Oman's cult began, fucceffu tem- escape into the city, and exprefle do- cent Ancient Itineraries, which to the mountain Albanus, the chief of whose yoke is Alba Longa we have said that it was founded, M. paf- but not to the town of Alban nifi M. to count the paffus, ex Antoninus' plan is clear; that's true, ho- the daily difference corresponds to the old let him say Among the other monuments It is called the town of Peji, Qifod, and the Alban of Pompeii. of Pompeii. what would you say, suburban five prddiWH Pompey then Albanwn P. Clodius, both of which are used as insignia He was a hundred exftru&um, of itapofteors the death of the Romans was received by the Romans He took the emperors. Alban of Pompeii the same prominent place, every day A small town of Alban, from Ciceronk He prays. it is clear for Mtlon, who expreffe di- cit Clodius BoViIIm the first town while the tenth from the city stone, then vilhP. Albanum oppidttm M. pafluum from there clod, difhtum on the Via Appia deflexiffe, tan- send him to the village of Fua Milone&affe; for when he made the journey to Folenne, he mum neceffarium, before the day Cal. Feb. Mtloni eife LanuVium ad Flaminum to be betrayed; (for Milo was the Dictator Lantttni) ipfe pomabito the day before it is done like the farm of the ancestors, Milo- He would place unfaithfulness; access to Clo- dio Mtlo before -the bottom of it about an hour the ninth at once several with arms in they do this from a lower place then, but with the snow gone, Milonc. fuga fibi con but this task was not lacking: reports that Afcomus Pxdtanus, Milo- injufte invafum with hot more than thirty armed Clodius Ariciate given, (where Milo's tiredness at de- he had informed the Curios of Aricinos by mistake) in Albanmn to meet Pompey etc P. Clodius eariss ad BovilUs. V E T U S N O really grasped; And closed with three wounds having received the taxes, SolnlLu tranflatum, ta- and the sheep, as if he had fled, ex- fought with Milo, the wife of Clo For a long time, Pompeius was taken out of the neck of the Vta Appta ful'rh"Jx fe- From this relation it is clear topographer the gcnuinadefrictio of the places: namely Albanum precedtum LnSPompct tnbus mil- thm so Ibus pafl-uum uitra SoTillas, nothing else in several places around the vaftiflima they indicate the ruins iTiSia as Paul also said, 'BoYilLu Antoninus to the ninth, or utaliiaddecimumla- foot, beyond which the Alban to the third and from here Aretia to one diftitilfe lapi- they offer Di AlbanokuVtlla Clodti had major difficulties, however so much, that from the context of the writings fu- it may be done. For most of the people beyond the White whether they bring the fuiffe to the village in a higher place The Lacius impoiita, in that place, where just Monaftertum rPatrum Franctfca- ours was made on the other side of the lake, or near the ruins of the old Alba. For beyond Alban from a lower place XiSm" Pjxdii I was Mtlon fuiffe impetitum a Clodto, Ctcero expreffe teaches, when almost for the Alban does not become a higher place than village five Margo Lacks in it Vtllam Clodius' fuiffe is certain; but the fuiffe the magnificence of the smoke dto, Cicerohisverbisindicat: banorum obruU ane, of the people The Romans mentions these qualities, which Clodius pneceps amenia ctejis proftrattfque fan- the lightest light, the infamous fubtruclion he had taken the books, isrc. who is the field of fate impressive magnificence? show Where indeed was Fanum about which Clodtum occifum fuiffe nar- tatGcerO) is doubtful; I, how much from the context of the words it may be gathered, I mean the fuiffe in some middle place between Albanus Sc Cafirus Gandolfini below Vtllam Clodit outside the Appian Way: For Clodtum SoVillas tranflated, there from He died of his wounds, a little before it was a long time ago VjolnlU therefore approx V U M L A T I U M
the gods Siw they were on the Alban side of the Appia adjacent to the meadow of Clodius, within this Vtllas Fanum Bome Sc. efuiffe, clear Fmdih it is, as is clear from the map; use all here na= field of immense ruins
The bus is packed, so is the bus we have a real joke skillfully determine, except Anpbi- tbeatro, whose still below Caftrum Gan- Amphi- the dolphins roared, with five "leairura- to those fepukhral cones, which Aricia between Albanumfpecltur, quorum the middle of the carter stands out higher; whom ple riches from the hiftories of the three Cu- they extirpate the riches of the race; ve- when he refuted that in the preceding we will see, and biftorica: it is repugnant to faith hfc repeterefucrvacaneumduxi. Ex- ftat to-day Immenefa faxeamoles, at the height of Praxelfx, at the entrance of the Alba- quo tamcn with niicertimililconftct, vddl'aul- in antiquity fux chaos. I leave Ampbabeatrum ver6 by Domitian con- ftru&um, with urgent fane reasons I am persuaded: for, as Dionyphius relates H Aopmuyog cpofindek rov xa. Tii, AAcivdi oetTa. ohzT&. ay. Domitian, in he quits, fearing his father, with Albanus He climbs a large mountain; ubilrcrolm- Amph; . perium adeptusfah- tunc J he worshiped the gods everywhere, and to celebrate the victory He lives tn the quarrels of the Toetas, orato- rumque, and the annual increase of gladtators btbebat in Albano. For that place was fub Albano monte, undeislocusnomenha- bet, as if he were building some kind of fortress. This one Suetonms fubfcribit to Dionyphimus; him- which was devoted to sports and hunting fuiffCj to pe in Albano fecceffu completing fpe- they are clear in most places. So you see from no one in another way than by Domitian, for when perpetual games, fcenicif fpeclaculis, nor gladiatorial contests ditus cffet cT: a were to be presented, to be prepared for the Confentaneum F vidcba- Boville; ATHANAS it seemed, especially ceffores CxfarestumlM, tumalibi, the most magnificent theaters and they live by example. Am- beatbeater, as his ruins show, between Caftrum Gandolfinus and Albanus confettit, commonly by the natives of Colof- feum, from Ampbitbeatus %omanus, di- cited between the ninth and the tenth stone from On both sides of the city and towards Alban, ruins are seen: and the most ancient a small town, Florus teftatur l. c. n who, among other towns, who wants Omani Cxados Kings conquered between the fortifications they counted the prey, also of the BoYils he remembers, so as already to the beginning the confluence of the Omani, and the he flourished most of all; however, as cf. control, the storms of civil wars very much, ipfo 6'rtroweteftante, de- he did: and almost all of them (Psomanar frequent mention of the fcrtptors they do not very much paffumfuiife in the civil war of Marion and Oklahoma, Crajfum, Metellus, I arose: where- that rum together with Cinna Ariciam and Alban Pompey, these to the mountain Alban caftra pofuiffe, Apptanm l, i. bell civil it matters All of this territory afojfa Cluilia Alban con- in the multitude of the rubbish, the store is so full that no one by the wonder of such ancient splendor j, iquin- magnificence: to look at the monuments leat Among the ca: tera to be mentioned is John Garenius at Albert Leander re- -brings, among the aforementioned ruins pore fepukhrum dete&um fuifle, in in which the female body is a kind of wonder and to extend the perfum with precious liquor son the batter, which is still uncorrupted she was such a beautiful girl he was noted for his hair gold and silver baton, diademed head she was adorned with gold, a lamp at her feet the impostors are still burning, but who as soon as it was opened, I K I R C H E R I tttDeath mind buried chrum Tulliola: it was found exftinfta; from the first verb a vulture every day until the body was found time, years, from the tomb they gathered beans. Whence many Tullius Cicero's daughters believed his body to be weak. Then the dead body of the people was taken up I am with the Confuli, whom the Conferatores they call it, as if it were a rare quid pia 8t he offered the unwashed; not true riofa the genius of the Omayi
fo worship fpuriishujufmodircliquiisin- would be done", Alexander VI. Supreme Pon- tificis juffu in Ti&enw projaumfuit; I have no use for the truth of this matter it was permitted to be found certain, so also faith fitpenesAuthorem. times. An Alban from which the first of the ruins of the Alban VtlLe Tompcu reftauratumnt, nonin- I am coming; It remains verifiable, however that the other places of Latium and the pleasantness abundance of things, of the best things the ferocity of the wines, as well as the delicacy cis viridariifque fuperatere, so frequented Cxfarurn and Prince of Oman by ruftication, he gradually escaped into the city fiife, while every one or a village, for a long time, or nis aotas, in folo deliciofo exftruerc he would contend: yet the Civilian fxpe with the fury of the wars, the giants were sheltered The ruins were ruined. Omanis armed with hand invading it, he called the Albanians Fri-Aibanum Derici Sarbarojfe Cxfaris factions too much to the prejudice of the Romans then the administration they were afraid, they destroyed the prodigals. No- but once upon a time the City, and indeed Italy, a triumphal metropolis, from Socrates we gather you and Sopmenos: for in Epifcopa- Council of Milan and Conftantinus Mano, beware of the condemnation of Atbanafii oppofuifle Epifcopos 'Paulmum Tre- Yirenfem, Dionyfmm Albanenfem, Ver- cellenfem in Liguna Euphebius: words his are: rictuAiV? cv IaMia TUV OLD NEW Albanian become xirKuv r AWas. In Yita quoque Pontificis fub Anaftafius, emperor Conftantinus m Yitis Tontificum, exprefle said, Syl- Vcftrum poft Conftantini Magni con- return to the city of Albany cam S-Joa, inis exftruxiffe, eam- Bp; is que niagnis pofleflonibus, then in aSylvetro i u r In the field, then around Lake Alban Innocen- gnatis cumulafle. In Wfa Innoceniu fon- timPaf, tifices, who in the year of Chrift Ecclefis he presides, this country is (uiffe Ecclefia-prafidebat anno fitmen- tio Ecclefte Albanenfis; around the edge year Bcati Tetri Bafiltcam in Alban's faith, to talk in Ytta BenedicliIII, anno then a commemoration; quin&A&r- he mentions the %omanian tyrology of this with fruitful words: Sixth tfal: Octo- bris Alban St. Senator Llt therefore from those times to this time after the setatem, the Albanenfem and the Epi fcopal dignity ckram fuiffe be clear. Yes today Mbanenfis Epifcopus in- Ecclesiastes Rom. one bishop the title is not valid for one of the inferior Car- attributed to dinals. But about these in the country of several thousand Sabines. On the fertility of these white fields, cam the records of the ancient Scriptures na fint, he does not care to say: Dio- nyfii teftimonium: SubjeEl are, in- A T I u M. take money 'Plinius. sl. c. G, Div You drink the wine of Setina before Tullille says, because the wines are near the city, the pradul- cia rara in the aftero; to whom Strabo he will write r, c. Diofcorides: Inter Italian Yma occupies a fertile placeAl- banum. Columella I. c. m, doubiumeft, WAi&ci, Surrentinique' Albani, Coecubic of all, rafusttnet, in nobilityYniprinapisclfe; Nor did Horatio difplicuiffe it, from fe- It is clear from these words: It is now the ninth year of my life full Alhanicadus And today it is still popular with everyone it is arttimation, although the ipfum is not Jufdem, whose goodness is found in the past. Hope and hope gam from Jlbanus about two thousand the paffuum diflitum Caftellus, which vul- Caflrum. I cast Camcerena out of the Authors criptis, which; it is not far from Albano so they bring, founded by the Aborigimbus and the priests of Vmbri, Dionysius teftetquam The first King of Oman fubjugaffe expounds the same from Cato Origimbus; from the ruins of which then a a certain noble Duke from Sabella the family of the Omanis, which originated from nem fuamduce mulri noninvenfi- They bring in thousands of casts, infatuated was; today, however, because of the evil air the plane of disability Enough, however this locomirarinon blond puff who I call the old White Long
on no solid foundation, indeed, opi- of rnirandi, omnKgenemfrugumferttltfimi, nione from all writers nor any retreating Italix dgro, pradpue boj tiente, exftru&am fuiffet fanit. But this cantprtecellens ommbm rdtquM, fi Fder- field Albanians Aricise registration C A P U T VI T)e Aricia, Nemore, and each Territory. Iciam, commonly called la Ticcia, for from the ancients of Latium in the cities of Fuiffe, Strabo, Ap- pianus, ic Comelius Tacitus they relate; its founder Archtlocbunil Duke of Sicily Linus reports, and from the same Ermina vo- it was quoted, and it will not be outdated by anyone F Write 4t A T H A N A S I I The writings of the monumcnts because of the influence it was celebrated in antiquity: whence Cicero Tbiltp-. ui, cam not undeservedly protected of the old age, right federal, close proximity He calls his mother with great pride; of which Dtonyfitts LiYtm, while caftra Marii Cimuc Ariciam inter Alba- whether the greedy will write down, they act with ease, whom but Fuiife once was not the same in the place where it just exits, fcd a little re- the mover to Vtam Appia, innumerable There, the monuments are often overlooked. dunt, from the Sicults, as we said before from Aborigintbm 8cTclafgi. s pdkrentur about five hundred years before the Trojan War founded in years, or from this capitc me- to stay, because two excellent He- oaavia- roes protulcrit Mundo, OBaYtamm nus Augus- puHftum Cxfarem ex Accit Aricina ftus, er tf, Tutnus was born, Turnum Herdonmm, a man the glory of the gcftary things, and no wonder Virgil Was he going? the children of Hippolytus a crack in the war Virbius, an artist whose mother Ar- cia mtfit This also has been returned by faith fa&a by Armte, the son of Thorfena the King Hetrufcorum, quern adfcitis in the auxiliary forces of the Cumanus Ariflodemus lead a fief army and kill Diony Fitts tells Tbtloftratm also nar- rat Apollonius Tbyaitus in this place when in Tbilisi Cttttenfem iricidiflct, to many a philofophatus fufle. some There, too, he wants to fight with Simon St. Tetro %omc entered, by former disciples, the members of the already mutilated Arkitm broad, and exfpirafle exfiftimant in the same place. Let not this Emperor of the Vttelltum die Aricix feceflu vehemently destroyed fuifle, the author is Corneltus Tacitus l. it is Orestes was caught in this forest Scytbtca juflu the oracle ere&a, read QYtd. Dionysus cxterofque Authors fu- for those named Great disasters with the various difficulties of war, at last, in noble times Itliamti Aricia: cmtigt- it breaks K I R C H E R I mx the family of the Sabellus, as well as the Arid Albans in the year itffii, from Sabellis to the jurifdiclion The family of Gbifius was transferred, fub Alexan- dro VII Poht. Max. Kill the town the abundance of things, nor the lack of abundance It is covered with filvarus. Porros Sc the brafficum of a better night, as it used to be, so just produces: whence Columcllaeam he calls his mother a leech. Brutia quene tellits, mother of Arkiaporri. Martialisl. Epistle: Mtttit pnecipuos Nemoralis Ari- ckporros In the nfneo Ytrides stipe cerne comasl This town once had a fub root a lake in the bottom valley of the mountain, the bottom of which The authors mention that Ho-LacusAri- fx you know of Simon tnagi the last one escaped; but he had this lake had its origin from the lake Mcmorenf, a copious stream is woven, which flowing from the neighboring hills the millstones were turned by the attack of the fuo; on this and every day of the canal in lactt TSLcmorenfi fpeftatur, which proper I have discovered this, in which I am writing this year. A miracle indeed, which Pliny narrates: If he fell a lump of coal in the field of Aricinius, to burn continuously I didn't find out today there; and no, what is the best of this? to be seen, to be seen, exftat about one thousand miles from the noble Aricia. the temple built by Deiparx, commonly known as the Temple la Madonna della Siccia, miracle worker and every confluence of men both sides travel frequently the most important, of course, it is divine 'iKdentix difpofitione this place ex- in the future, as where once the nefarious Diamt facra demonum inftindu celebrate-' tur, fuo time de pulfis demons
blaspheming the idolatry of the true God the worship of God alone is propagated; which is so loud, the multitude of miracles do, that in this place at no time by the grace of the pious mother, They indicate fat and fat. Alexander de- then P. M. for exceptional fua in Dei- I will prepare immediately Laciw Aricim PrifcaConftituiio via atmjalnita ht tneaka lake cxtructa, .
S? ecuU Bi 5ecui S'r
OLD NEW. I will prepare another temple for him with devotion dedicated to honor in the town of Aricmi how magnificently ex- built, that he used to be humble
phymetry of Pantbei %omani ere&um so was Tantbeon Marianumus he shouted. C A P U T VII ZteNemore Aricino, Lake Diana? . of Strabo registration Ntnwii. EmttsitzdjaeAricinum, five Nemws Diane Taurice feu In Scythia, two thousand beyond the Arctic then, none of the rest of the celebrity threatens In this forest remember bilious that Lake fpe&atur, which to no one a little Dtan. t, some Artemt- son, such as Lacum ncmorofum Diante, others they impress by other names; today a two neighboring towns dis, commonly tlLago dt Genftno, dt Neme it is said, retained by the ancient Nemore, by name wdjverohoc]ocofingu- widely cultivated from a certain record it is clear that in Talatius, Duke of Frangipan the abacus begins to read your God, as if he had made art I will transfer the specimen to the King of Gallicus coward True, with this Nemorenfem the diftriclnm of fate's curious reasoning wrote Strabo; I will quote his words here, each of which is worthy of mention about this place and the lake he took 9ost Albanus, he says, a mountain on the Via Appia esl the town of Ari- cia, beyond the boc, a Roman town, The woolen road is on the right, barely wide by Appice. re, mde mare is- Antium confptcipof- they become Diana: But we do not know what they call a jiniftra vixparte eftqua from AriciaLanu- viumVerfus afcendkur; A temple in it he will go to the Aicinians; say Diana: Tau- rica: conftituta effet of the workers ftmtliaibi; For the Barbarian also and the Scythian Moses then buried that temple: deep indeed, you will be made conftitukur, who He killed the priest with his hand, Cloque femper sword ready to mfultws projndfandos circumfptck fan he went more, before that efl, the sea nemuhts tfuperciltum containing the mountain and ex- celfu arccirca in the place of the cave is-deep includk Lake irhnum. Atfontesqui damconfpicuifunt, mdehcus is filled; one of whom is called Egeria, common Numtnts for each name. effluxusau hidden indeed, but seen abroad I met him there from afar; After all, twice lo- cis Ytcinus is the Alban mountain of longefubli mtor Diana; do not move iy. ejwfuperciliis, licetexcelfisisrfatis reclts: ts also la- when the drink is far greater than that, you must stay Diamond Itec Strabo Athanasius therefore whom Strabo mentions, frequency celebrity, already once op- a lice has arisen, to which it was introduced by a fit the name Nemus, today Nemi. to the subject He was in possession of the plumkufanus lpfa Lacusripa. , with, modern use it is evident from the local constitution, nothing is done between lake mountain this Nemoris fu- the plain of Percilius, the snows of those who live in Nemor Lacuspatet is besieged with many objects the hills to which it seems alluvifle Quafublime Nemus, Scythia: reignDhnx, . it appeals to itself, because it is done by craftsmen Dtant prajfes king di&us: whence HcSue- toniusmCaligula fem vocatjunde emerges the story of Orefte rem Dtanx fimulacro facrificaturo, nifi rapto Diana: fimukchro dam aufugif. fent See all the graphic novels Pontic, ele. W. TriFtium, eleg. IKQux quide all contigiffe in Nemore Aricino they tell, which; yet in the extreme Latins, whose race is from the aborigines of Sc Pe- We have said that the fused faiffe fupra from Gracia A T H A N A S I I Hippolytus fahula Virbius rjilis, ejuf- that I'm talking about
Egeria transferred here from Gracia, and to Nemori No one doubted that the hedgehog was applied to the fuiffe
must, who in propagandizing the Gracchus story ideas itch he has had trouble; Where it is to be seen about Hippolytus was brought back to life by Diana make the story famous. For Diana Hippolytus from Phoctes you bring it back to life in Jrkino, use it SerVius reports, Nemorc Nymphx com- Egeria lied, and Virbimn him when I am twice a man, he is glad to be called; whence. C ornuto tefte, eighteen meters away the city of Virbii clivus, where the journey cfl to Ari- when t? Nemus Diana; : see the place in map QjMsnam autcm fucrit Egcria that Nymph, and Quisfonsejus, various they deliver variously; there are those who call it Nunue Po- they say the wife is hairy; one of the Mufis They really want to, but others agree with each other. Dionysius Hdicarnafl. he said, thorns with Egera Nyrnpha I was a finxiffe, having been dcvinfti by such a religion the laws were abrogated by the authority of the Gods they would gladly take the broads; every day for to him ventitaffe EgcriamNym- fall Muffarum and teach him to be foolish And to the spring they bring the habitaffe, who and the spring of Egeru was divided, utifupraex It was clear to Strabo; of this clear source dung is so copiofc today fub Nemorenfi water flowed from the cave into the town We remember the dust like the millstones of the river I was soon rolled up; And this Egerue ftatur, the rest, however, are the sources of Cynthianus five Genano town Mufarum five Ca- They were held to be the fountains of the Mcenae. Livius He was, whose medium was a source from an opaque fpecm perennirigabataqua; quo because fe peifepe At the end of the tree, I would not go to the gathering the goddess brought him, Camcenis lucumfa- craYit, quodcarumflbi confilia with conju- Gefua Egena did. . The nymph warned, the forest and the forest operated Dimx, Nymph Numa: conjunction, to tufa- Let there be Vallis Kncinx fybapnecinclm opaca E(i lake, ancient religion maker. R I R C H E R I Here Hippolytus hides the severing of the reins horses Whence the forest is not mocked by the horses. It flows down with an uncertain stony murmur game Sitpefed and drink from it in small handfuls. Egeria cfl, qtut prxbet waters, Goddess welcome Camamis, She conjoined Nums. Others think that Egerict's grave and fountain put the fuiffe at the gate of Capena col- and they relate it from the Satyra Sulpicius, which of the Republic in the days of Domitia m. fophos exUrbeexegifet, where Calliope He pretends to be a fool, so the refpondent r Put the fear of the horses, my knife, fum- maTyranno Hec they inflame hatreds, and noflro perish with honor For La. uKtMamxfontefque habi- the same And count Egeria let us laugh in vain received But he was able to use the customs of the Omanis the humility of Aricinus Lucius and the fountain another %ome to be made to the same Dex. they had made use of the spring The lake today is called il lago dtNemi, Ncmus, a town built in a lake village, break fubeft of the jury Dofito refpondetGe, Cynthia- tianum, with the fortress of Duas Gejarmi, loa poffcflbris The source, indeed, which Egerict once they said, today there he slipped out of the cave with such impetuousness that grain mills immediately that's it But the cave of the canal was easy, this common lake Albano monte hydrophy lacium, from which is filled, to have: for Lake Alba- is it more certain through my secret then in the Nemorenfcm lake he discharged re, we have said nonsense, and this by other oc- cultivated canals and in the fields below Ari- and then to St. Petronilla, the old man LaYtnii's place, when he vacates the fefc, Nu- to give the origin of the flash of the river. Lake also Diane was a piece of God, with whom that Diana from Mount Alban, in which the lake OLD NO Lake inftar fpeculi round fplen- compared to the two they talk so much. whatever flt The joke is full of humor. Nemus today a small town on the edge of the mountain impofitum, the palace of the most noble worshiper nature, profpeclu prorfus deliciofo, family lively and well-suited for hunting given From Aricia to Genanum and every way a whole thousand and more five times as many trees digefta, as there are no pleasant places here fpe&ari queat; to this region Monajie on the slope of the Capuchin Tatras menet, cjuemego cliDum Virhu fuiffe,
from the Authors, not unbelievably I guess Veruntamenhsc everything, as, whether They are true, or noiinulla didorum the rapids of the places are still raging, I would find, in the year in which I wrote On the day of Ocl: obris, the whole lake of Ncmorenjis a fume was attached to the exploration; in which wherever we have fallen, here with our eyes Morafe "I will put Lear's curiosity; it is a lake itfirifth. in the circuit of thousand papfu, crater in fact, it is easy to kill thousands of people he comprehended; once from all sides to Bitatii, particularly to the coast, where; He reflects the southern quarter, in which you can scarcely proceed to ten fathoms, where not meet the rushes of rubbish, with which: indeed they do not compare, you have penetrated the secret passages of the interior; Tumenim from here the fubftrusions read yonder rare magnificence fans, am- the long breast in a continuous row are discovered. Spedantur Cefaris Augu- tai y? ifemifepulta magnificenttiffimi pa- the rapids of Laius not far from the canal, by which the water was brought down into the lake of Aricinus batur, magnafane of square stones clum conftruifto, since indeed five given works, five sliding matrix cafu, fucceffu time canal obftru- And it is US, so wherever Lake Aricinus water- I fell hungry in the field, which they call Conch, because of their fertility he escaped. The water of the female canal ruti pef divertivas here and there, Wounding the mass of burning fummo of the natives from this la- with whom was also the famous flu1iolus Numicum Numicius traces the origin, which propen! : Pwttka, velpotiusad S. Petronella, old Lal? intum, once destroyed by ce- a leper place, from a rock to a huge one the fountain bursts forth, and from here into the sea of three Mileage Ferc Fpatiodiflitum there Craterlake turns eastward three great fountains of water the bus is irrigated, the principal of which is. infa the Citadel of the Frangipani from the huge Frang; ps emerging from the rock, he grinds three millstones. Another pl Aricia turned towards the Cynthians met Third to Monajlenum Fran- of the gypsies; finguh clarity, trick-or-treating tate, and also with a kind of snowy coldness powerful It was made in the rupee a town from Nemore, the name of Nemi keeping this and every day, which maxi- make me great and great ilfutrat the palace of the Frangipani, in that in the place where once the temple of Diana He was scrutinized by all the scribes celebrated together with the tower, as the tower then They call Dianx, height of altitude dumfaftigiumerigens, formarotunda cylindrical, whose inner diameter ter the exterior the thickness of the walls peduminvenitur. fpefiabilefane opus the most worthy of trust. figure his ram in a propped map please Above the leafy rock bottom; the extrudum but the crypt is found irrigated by fountains, which I Egcrix once fuiffe a cave from Anrrum Au&orum fupra memoratorum fcri- I guess to this day a place commonly called Gerulo, nomj- not far removed from Egeria. The plane is not a little below this ex- it is spread, the wonders of further ca: parum- which, as of old, so and so and so forth the most famous day of ferocity: cxte- today the entire crater at Lake uf- that fylfofa trees condense he is perplexed by the except for those par- thee, with whom Auftrum and Eurus fpeds, G vines ViaFm gipanio Cynthia- new ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI abounding in vineyards. Hence to expedi- j That distrust arose from the rifdi&ione Cyntbianus Nemitus should have his way, he will not hinder him. Certainly from the first Ca? fa- The duke Frangtpanius, excommunicating his caution against Augustus and Tiberius in the lake, un- a journey of about three miles each way shaded by tall trees with large fane irnpenis inside the crater of the mountain to the side of the Auftrale it is done, in which nothing can be given On the other hand, nobody's diamond the Cynichtans, generally speaking, It has been done in Qenano, therefore: no bilc the rich town of Gefarin Du- vafitatK LiciisNe- raorenlis delcripiio cis juridicione; below that AAw ft- I saw a tree so large at the bottom of the lake; lujilZl magnitude, utintegrajamilia per-
ropes can easily be hollowed out may be I'm sure it's fibiperfua they have smoke, this tree from Gefare Awufto planted there, fucceffu tem- excreviffe the pores to such a great extent. But let us give to the natives more with which to grow this perfuaiion of the plebeians. Laais casteroquin abundance of pifcium is filled: where the deepest, tri- not the length of a cubit exceeds In balance with Lake Alba no, to whom through a secret channel munificate, coniift, and all from Al- bani nlontis hydrophylacio waters he receives plenty. Both lakes are fenced the matter is not so difficult trust, so that the intermediate fpa- tium tcrreftre I will say that the two lakes are joined together he loves Further a. Cynthiano five Genano op- with the foot of Aricia, as in old times the Appian Way was tending; so today the most noble and completely in royal ways viaCafi- a mile from the Excellent Duke it was given in abundance, as in the whole of Latium, five magniiicentiam five raramamoe- you fpe&es, "however more beautiful deliciofmfque does not occur. And no so long ago in the Cappucino they were discovered in the monafterium of the ancients Aquesduftus of the Omani, a great fane the benefit of the future Cyntbians; become Nemorenfes inter Cyntbianofque de ju- with the most delicious naumachiam started, the ships at the a pi- lcJfa- rProfper Columna Car- dynal with great expenditure of machinery which equipment is used to extract fate tpftan there whose artificiality, other times, the ship's fleeting flight to those children make you argue fixed in the middle of the lake and the habitations of Fuiffe; the same cubital canals of lead the rum was carried by one to the other, ex they collect extra61: is at the bottom; Architects verily, having closely examined them, the prxter in registration in the name of Tiberius Gefaris fashioned, from that great source also fcaturiqine, than the millstones below the castle We said to pour frangipani, adna- the road and the house in the middle of the with the confections, not to spoil anything the cold waters Du&as afferuerunf I won't let anyone how attractive it seems to be here I will bring Blondiverbaadduc, the troops the device of fufe copiofe defcript lucu- it will appear. And how much, says he, of the lake of Blondi the elders were grateful for this great theme the pore appeared as an ornament. Proper Co- "dlm" lumna Lardinalts, FatrittuJquel {pmanw, with Nemorenfe that Cynthian- that Caftellus paterna pofttdeat hxredi- tate, at some point he heard Nemorenksdi- cere ndPes fuo inLa. cubinascffefubmer- truth, which is not so rotten as to be torn roped from induflriaalltgatos, necretia they are implicitly transacted: neither grz you were the ipforum of all the inhabitants of Viri- the bus can be pulled out. OuareVtr ipfe bona- rum artium Jiudiis isr mprimis Hiftorie dediftmus, nor threatens old age We are curious, what is the size of the ship? pafvo (y. surrounded on all sides by the highest monttbus in lake ftbtVoluerintnojfc ani- mum added, and later Leo Baptifta Albertus Geometra gius, as many of the most elegant retificators He was shocked verha, cjuo- ]o tic- V E T U S N O V U M L A T I U M. He piled up the books, ad idoperiseftlocatits. Qut1afa Ytmriamultos colligatainordi- lest by reason of that reason in Iacus, as of as if the bridge of the bmc from there pendercnt macbiiue, quibtit with an iron harpoon forbits appenfo rudcnttbus taken mor- dtcus na1em, skilled carpenters at they would draw, isr a Gcnua ttrbe marittma they had been hired for a fee, Some of them are better than others there were parts in the deeper lakes to defend, isr quanta ejfetnavis, and intcgra ventire, isr demiffos funi- barpagones m morphum draft to apply finally captured and bound ram naYts, when he did not die whole, Fracia cft, iy its particles passing through barpagones has been made. Speciaculo futt omntbus Romana: Curue nobtlioris ime- nti Vtris parculanaYts it does not appear to have been fabricated. NaYis to-
ta larice, lign o, with three fingers compacted with bitumen fectts deltbuta was That bttumen, that even now it appears, a crimson cross the Veil was woven and worn, bek defuper chartts fuperficies tota aba- who imbrtbufque naPem buttumenque de- fenfura obte&a eFf which qutdemchartas not claYiculi, iron fed dinner the numerous grafted tta comprehent, as nis Immor would be permanently banished. interior na- Ytspars not from the rain magts isr bumore, which he drank from the fire of the strongest iron AMiqm- defense; for with clay isr chalk whatever wooden foliditatk inside he had gathered, to the craft of the unitts of the finger teflum and declibutum iron mind is concoBum with fire, melting infused, as to the digit units isr ali- dilatation of the two-dimensional cube then iron of the same size, as NctvitJe. fcrtity i in rt hitsfolidc frttcndis ftudium so to speak, the nalds drooled as much as the larch had previously gillte isr creatce battumination, 1el ttt oltm in ctcllabatura, complaflratio fuper- it is infufa; offer1atume ftuffe Ytdemm, so as to concoct liquid iron, regardless it will cool, clay and chalk, and ipfa codcni to be boiled by heat, fupermduccrcntitr quo isr fubftrata isr fupertm dcduEla clay unites, ettam nuncfunt, com- mtxtum ex lateritw isr ferrobitumenef- would be done While butc expifcandcena- Yt every undtque tnfudat multitude, ftfiu- U infuse the lake in1enufunt plumbea. r J I plttmba tudme, quas, mutual morju and coynpanne combing in the quantum of the maxtmam longitudnemproducerelicuit: their1ero fingults elegant tnfculptcefunt lit terre. au- tborem, to cast naYts, fmm Tibe- rium Ca: farem Auguftum indtcantcs; Leo the Baptized copiofifii fonts mt lucidiftmiquead 'Nemorenfe ojfpidum fcatentis waters, now con1oilcntes mills I have a lot of tricks up my sleeve dtum ufque lacumfutffe perduclas, qitce cedtbus tnferYtrent ampltftmis iattfimtf which We hold tMfutffc. But the beautiful isr it is almost surprising to find greater clans ceneos, who are conftru it was so strong, so polite, so by d fabrt ferrant incudtbus exitffe Yt- be given So far, Blondus. Certainly Mufteo Gualdino is one of the keys here Xneis fumma with pleasure saw me I remember: as a consequence centuries old inventions I cannot be surprised at fate. The things that have been told so far pum in the frequent ichnography Reader be contemplated
CAPITAL ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Chapter VIII T)e Lanuvio, yulgo Civita de la vigna. Ltra Ariciam, Sc diftum Dia- Nemus, to the Via Appia, ffS old conftituitur LanuYium, that today CiYitd de la ig)! dicitur, {ubjurifdiaione family: of Ceefarinum, a village while, what country does Anton ini Tii Cx- You will be miles from the sea. This town is confused by the distance Authors with LaYinius near Lau- rentum Jrdeam, because of the names of fan anagrammatic fimilitudrier deceived; for pri- mum was a town in Latw, which AL- neas, while proceeding from Gracia to Tbyr- on the shores of the Rhine sea, near Lau- He founded the rent, from his wife Laymia the name given to him; and it is thought that he slope, everywhere S. TetronilU vifitur, viz Numicium, to cpod ftnum fub IoYk in- with the name of your fingers, Jnee this flow fubmerfo among the needy Gods cranf- wide, it was made; take advantage the Authors of the State (The Roman municipality was in the field Solonius, the last of the Alban months with which it grows, the root is planted, on the slope from which the sea, as I said, Antium 8i Circeum fpe&antur, Antoninus l? ,uti a little earlier, Cxfaris, Mi- Aferatf"m, of other men to be sheltered by the dignity of the confederates be celebrated with praise. Atquehiceftulti- mus Montana Latium ter- less In which to use innumerable ancient
the tatters are still to be found so she too grew up with great enthusiasm ready to be placed here, together with epiftolaquamMzfiwfcfSYeentunc time in Caftro Gandulfino Medi- cus, excellent in talent and learning, de LanuYmis, Albanifque, antiquities, he came to me; But this is the way things are. dJSnodum TZfoerende in Chrifto Tater We obeyed the juftists, eterende confess I was, that Ytcinas hafce Ymeas antiquity then I would pass through the caufa of the iiiPeftigands. Im- first the ruins of of the theater, which Caftri Gandulphini inter iff Albani Ymeta almost immediately below Amphi. . r n i of the theater ejt, and clearly contiguous AIbmt. concerning my Order, isr ego alids greedy di S. not only very accurately ftn"ula view fum; Verumetiamnonfi- I thought it would be appropriate to use my own skills D. Archiprefbyterum Albanenfium, Yirum was not impressed by the vulgar dollrind, isr- the early explorer of antiquity my most beloved; who among others He reported that it was true from the Amphitheater. where in ancient times the Latins, Variafpe- brawls, gladiator games, bullfights and hunts, holding conjugates, and exercising athletically They commanded that the publicity should be exhibited promptly, and whence especially the ancient Romans, Coloff's model of building within the mon- tem Cslium fumpfijfe memory prodi- it is tnm; now, for the most part, I was lying strewn with ruins and grandtufculi. bundles orbatum and nonnifi bodie multarumgleba- the fur of the bundles held high fiim deorfum Volutatori indeficrtminatim filled with ramparts on all sides, therefore The power Veget (ttiVam inexplicable to them, that 1alde iwequale, isr anguptius folito mjurid was born fit to pay back the time. Today itaperfpetlis the way to be felt also to Lanu- the wines of the coast, which among the Cynthians Evander's palace is held exftitiffe, Paiatii the rubbish of the bodie and dumetis tmdique fubadnafcentibus obfita curiofe obiYi and circumiYi: que tametfi memo- ratti Evandrine Lmuvii veteran they become OLD NO the most dignified of the ratus exftent on account of the Variegatos the arches were furnished with art and many things adnexafana (lelutiprifce Latincc gentis it was a custom to fuperftionibus riofis, however, to the inltcfligators baud thus they readily allow him to be taken, as a wave that around amiclajpims nonici Lavinates, iflhoc in place 1cre conditumftetiffe Lanuvium, whence Lavi- nia conjunx, for fear of that terrible war The turn between ir and Aeneas secretly fled the land the hill, from which every day the ruins of the tower there and then, where I am now Lavinia partm, feu iircempotius, La. v'mix exfti- tiff, what kind of machinki? broken gmentk of huge walls not far from the gate of Verfus the sea of appearances, now oli- V U M LATIllM. which dpramemorato Archiprefbytero Al bani abuero by refedulb once absfe animadverfa, ir in commentariolumredacla, cuidam%cligiofo Imbrofe Valley near Deipara for he was conceived by the living faith, i. e and they brought Ca- promised to my people, where I will repeat them he will protect and give mutual assistance, Latiale fermone diSlaturum, adhoc, utfua which is better and more affordable caVcrit, fibiid ipfum depromat: I will make it The word, so that it becomes more and more efficacious around here and there. In the meantime, you will be given the registrations, which lefcMupuejint, in a better way sludio, qtio I was successful, in the forum Lavinus registered by me tranfmitto, etc. obliteratasatquefrunrupte mode adultery with lanti help, many cha- with rascals 1etis oleribufque ondique fupcrnafcenti- menintellexi aScnionbus loci Excellentif- a bus full of people, it is possible to see, isrVeterem fimam Duce Catarina paucisabbmc Lavinia city 1ersiis Tyrrhenian. .I came we love the same thing, if possible more readable whether protendiffe, whence in Maron, the exiftentesaquodam tranffcri- Lavinaque shores: Of which all the two, iyfummo fontifici Alexander Septi-
and the first other things in the neighborhood of the mo, eastpfaspoftulantiamandarifecifie, i flagis, chiefly Memorenfibus, Aricinis, with whom fortajfenuncexoraripoffent, juan- itr Alba longa. , obfcrVatu condignis, ex- doprafentes S. !e they would not smile. I would like to communicate with you. intraper- infmpth- At short notice, the registrations are here. mti Lavinia The inscription of the stone, which Clefice of the wall, who defends the forum inferred is concluded. M. AUREL. AUC BOOK Agile SEPTENTRIO- NI I pantomime SELF TIME. FIRST SA CERDOTI Synod APOLLINUS PARASI BY IMP. M. AUR. COMFORTABLE ANTONINO PIO HAPPY ornaments. He advises DECREE order undressed AND AL- I read INTER. YOUNG S. P. Q. LANUVINUSJ There is another record of a stone wall placed in the vestibule of the Canon House. their T. Aurelius Aug. book Aphrodite PR Cons. AVG. S. P. Q L. DEDICATED Q. Varinius Q, F. MARCUS VIANO. Mr. Other ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Another listing of stone in the market, CN EVO C. F. DONATO JllNIANO. CONVINCED I AM Consul Sicily JEK. PROVINCE PR. JEDILI QUESTIONER SICILY PROVINCE Cetcra 1oces obfolefcentes prorfmfmt, ir botterraUc attrition of chains, which Ymchmturfures, and thus delinquents. good luck and with my paternal patronage, I was afterwards blackened. I would give at Caftrum Gandulphi, on the of January, in the year of the Virgin's departure, Siueadm. Qtf. Va Obflruiiffimus and ObferVantiffimfumusferVus, Valentinus Steboerius, Jatrophyficus C. part djes kc zector Itfuhm Territcrn, ef one of the strcttoms of Zani Toaphutm. , not so much pen feet frys jeaifius dmcnfam delmcatxmmte, Qua, fuxcumpx rerum acmanarum Sayto- res, de vetcrts Latin 0Jruis, Montibus, Lacuhus, Thummzbus tionc dwna tradiderunf, juxta natmum fuyuhrum bcorum ftum, exhilen- tur, eb several m Cluveriams Tabuli G-eojrapnicis fcrperam. they are corrected and the rifts of the Juis Lrcis are refuted.
JBA. Cinaa JiS: P, etra Je JJrafcati. E-llllmc. Ji S. a&tria Cliefaji S-JlidclArcangeU. F. LJiieJae rfiL-HZa Je, -JV Siifiat,
BC G. JD. J, S Franeefie H. .eAi Blank inserted to ensure correct page position
V E T U S N O V U M L A T I U M". P A R S II, THE TUSCULAN FIELD the surrounding places. C A P U T I Old Tufco, e-rMontibus, Tufculani. Tufculi origin it fits Vfculum rjiuwm iii yoke of the mountain "the city of the Latin the backbone of cities in antiquity yields A Tclegpno Greece Vlyjfls fuiffe founded to his son, almost all scribes convened, ideft, abo- before the Trojan war starches hence Ovidius IV of the Faftorum: And already wet rice They were standing in the field as far as they could. Etlib. 3Faft. Between the Aricinos and the Alban times, cast Fatlaque Telegonus mcenia celfa with his hand. Of the fatness of this city there is no profanity I find a controversy among the authors, when in no other place has he died, in the last and the last Tufcula- m montps yoke, as huge waste which; They met those who were going thither they are made, they clearly demonstrate Fuiffe but the splendid town, of the theater, and the excitement of the fans, which: ad- Amfbuh, Here are some of your favorite things mrnufcu- namuT. AmpbitbeatrunUujus no part, snow wall around he would still be angry, diameter of spans: cx- tcra arundineta, dumi, veprefque oc- they want Alons, which Vtam LatmamJl- bannmque refpicit, because of the false the cenfu is a difficult approach; whence ho- with the help of adversaries it is easy to luht wherefore nuhTarquwwsfitperbus arerepublicacxatlus, rerumfuarum fa-
tagens, fjliam fuatn in matrimony n. usiupcr. cumOcldXnoMamdioTufulano Lati- vus exKex m J. imirtli
rum as both the power of the genus and the mu- the most safe place for the safe harbor of the Omani frincM'm he will be able to point out the war, and this erepturh to recover the kingdom for us. Which; Livius reports in these words: Tarqui- but the nius, considering the stool, Yi, nonjure the need to babbling the acquired power domestically, 1erum also external praftdw most of the Latins? powerful mum ftbijunxit necejsitudme, dataei m matrtmomumfilta; ts Yidebatur O&avius Mamilius, referred to Tele- gonum Vlyffis r Circcs, habtta- the lieutenant of Tufculi. Hatred of the Founder agent of this town. of mammals quit The family was descended from Mamilia Mmi; i, Telegoni, how procrcaVerat Tuf- ZVm. Tarqui MfPorcium Catonan also became a municipality Tufculo refers to the rise. It was cipiumnihil else, FeftoVompcjo tefte, iw, . what kind of people, who with o-roris Tu- they came to me, and neither did the Omanis ef- M fent. But you participate in the fuemnt of all things. of things to perform the task. together with T" omants ciYbus by carrying the yoke, or by taking the magiftrat; figuti Formiani La- nuVim, Tufculani, quipoftannosali- how many cfoes %ome effedi funt. Oz. plan ctum Tufculanus fuiffe, Gro says in He prays for Cn. Tlancio: You are from ancient times dung in the municipality of Tufculano. luckily the events of the birth are also told Ille de L. Furius, a fufculan confule, who jl Furius rebelli Tujhdo relyo ad ftomanos pro- T r Jr i i r l tertuha, having obtained the scepter, and so in one the same year Tufculam Xufcult Jifiriflio A T H A N A S I I Tufculanus is a part of the city led a triumph over the Fubje&is Tufcula- nis, of the forces of the Romans. But already the real Tujcula of the field and we are ordered to defcrip. tion, as from this drawing Le&or, which de to bring the surrounding towns and villages mouse, made of molds more clearly perceive On Tufculano mountain, Tufculum was born fuiffe, a little while ago we met, who tnons is so close to the Alban mountain, uc from the field of Hannibalius I attacked with arrows it may be seen, and so 7ro(T7racrta- TtotTl t, a7roppj that is, you will do something Albani montis Ytderiqueat, Yta Latma in the valley between the two safe Inultimoitaquejugo montisTu- fcukni Tufcum, five Vufculum, pri- with fcum conftitutum fuiffe, I said a mouse, of that size, as a waste paffimobviaindicant Longitudinal twice each way to the village of the mountain paf fuum fuiffe avTOfiiT&a. I found La- the mountain's height varied, now the majo- a thing, now smaller, where the greatest feet, where the minimum feet de- taken: from which menfura a large fane for iftor times condition ur- He was a fuifie. At the end of the mountain Algidus is restored to the yoke, of which a little we will reason more greedily; in defcen- but I turned to the lower part of the mountain tem, five villages, into a small one and the same for prophesying for the plain ends, where also are the rubbish fpeclant, which delicacy they offer a fume place to fuiffe, crypts, periftyiiis, exedrifque fpe&abilem; although today the trees, the meadows, the The place was so dark that there was hardly any priest. for let him exhibit a piece of dignity: and In this place I seem to have received something, from far removed from all the popular upheaval I'm sorry Ctcerone home xdificaffe vo- lunt, like Mufis made, itapare- fit for three, xy and ftifque; f n which as a kind of literary palseftra audi- those quinftiones that Tujcu- Tufculi of pleasure tlim, ex viodtrntr rudtribnt Cicero's Academy tm lekus to search called knas, they all believe in tradition Antiquity is known by expert scribes. "They are, as I said, still rude the room, the walls, and the living room in it, which I said, instead, the village of Tufculani of the yoke, in which the cities of Tufcuktia were once he was threatened with fire Ytllam Cardinal Sachetti, which; this I have been to the Ciceronian plain of orchards environment includes For from this the other defcenfus through the double valley, Fra-
fcatimn ufque (which Tufculum no)um Tufcuium we say) as once buildings, palaces, "lfin. pleasant mountain village rum with obscurity peramcenis delightful it was, thus, is the priest given to the dead of the mountain? side by side a great man of riches, of whom a little want But Tufculus did not know this, feu Fraction, another defcenfus is given in I will extend every part far and wide and to the plain of the field of Oman: from the east Marinus, Albanus, from the mainland Gabios, LaYtcos, Tibur, franeHinofque mountains; in the afternoon and the whole He reflects the region of the Sabines, from Occafu the entire maritime coast to Circejos what mountains Sc clatter And on this slope of Lucius' mountain that the prince (the fuiffe of the I want a little fuperfti rubbish let's find out And as from whence it is difficult let's return: Tufculum prifcum then power, as well as the fortification of the place mum fuiffe, bella maxima cumloma- nis gefta they declare; the first of which among the OclaYmm Mamtlium, of the Latins it was born, in the way that it is born: Tufcuknt was confident in your strength, and in your power tia OBaYti Mamilii, Tarquinii a re- to be called, a fierce smoke to infect them with the Tuicuiani they did not care; whence these compared in- Rjgiiun, m to the army of the nation, to the army of the Tufcuks I will return to where I will meet runt, ttbi given by Di- the giver of the the leader of the Prairie, the vassal, by two V E T li S NEW L A T I u M. from the two concurring furiously ex-figure round, and holds about guns there were thousands in the environment; plenty of fish for a long time I doubted that Mars was so sharp. terpugnatumfu. t. utadiftudtempus prashum ifthoc acne and hideous arundmibusjuncifquepaluftris ma- The contigiffe do not mention the Scnptores, which were in the great part filled with a stream also and therefore he casts and trusts even these gods, whom they call upon today LjcusRc giilus Lake St. Praxed, diCafti glioue tPolhcem, uu Flonis refers to this Intcrfuiffe has given a little fame. at last fortune favoring fupe- riores faclf, the whole of the Tufculans the army of the Latins they destroyed the third part, the rest that the fugitives of Tufculum skin, gates intercepted, fpoliatad ur- well together with the whole Mami- They destroyed their family. See de- in this war at Ctcercne, Dtonjfium, LiYium, Vakrtum Maximum, Ftortim, otherwise fuse a&um; and although La- cus all remember, the place tarnen, where isfitusfuerit, nuHusrnen- He did this: it was doubtless due to I'm sorry, because he's a scumbag %oman nothing more famous, notiufqueeffet; and it is and without any controversy that lake, which today, Lacum S. Praxe"dus, or just as well, Illago di Cafttglione, some Seera. they call those who use shelters the mounds and the rim of the crater to the inftar surrounds, so also inftar am- fhttheatrt obtained a concave shape, And on foot he once flowed through the city, of which more in the fruitful. you- oma, Ttbure leisurely miles to the mountains The roots of the Ttifculans: &cumaliusla- cus on the plain Latit prehuncnon meets, certb can conclude, this effete him, by whom memorable against Tu- It happened to the fcttlanos vi&oria. But already Tufculani registration welcome let us proceed. And so he went right back to Oman
the bus was overturned; so indeed among the favorite cities of Latit fem- was inhabited, and as long as that mountain Tit- fculant tra&us, from Monte Portio Marinum of each, numerous villages, and hundredths of the fyemans none the pore of worship was as great as that of manufactures by coercion, as huge and continuous taj to express the image of the city there, as we shall see, Ytlla Cice- the most famous beginning of the du&uri; . C A P u T II iron vault, fire Villa Cicero Which: in that place once fituta, where just now the cemobium of the Monks of Baftlim commonly known as La Crotta Ferrata, in the field of Tufculano it was grown. Equivalent argument, when! I was killed in the field of Tufculano It has been communicated to me Rno' V. Abbtte IdcoboGar- hto: that where the life of the rhihi was exceptional
learning, niis, there once Gceronts Ytllam fuiffe, to abound, so also heretofore inferred while I was In the year the faluti noftra; , with Jga-Crypra rens Arabes totaCiWrainfuampo- Sift teftatem redacla with heavy pcrfection in Chriftians, and especially in Mo-, , nafltci ordtnis %eltgiofos fevirent; Tholomeus Ntkus, St. Not a student registered in the number of those who have done so Order of St. Safilit Monachiisfek&is I was of the order of Craci, the rite of Monachts, flight H was seized Crypt FerrataoW trn hit wonder ass Tufculi Principles Cryptse Feniae rtddittts anntti viltgia, i hliothtca MSS. S8 ATHANASII having been taken into Latium, he brought cybilius exifmans in a foreign folio a quiet and devoted life to God than among the BarbarosfiL atrocity im- the ghosts, without protection, live in danger. , Here itaq, when to Tufculani town ra-, you say it will arrive, I see some du- or the crypt, within which you were born would receive, in the same place in which he moved do the Abbey of Crypu FerraU fita cerni- there, he found In this vault no while the rest of them were sleeping, the Mother of God with much splendor
he appeared, swearing to him that he was in that place would stay I found Ecclefia dedicated to worship;
in the image of the truth of the gods, au-, , he gave the accused an apple, which for to lay the foundation stone of Ecclefix there They dominated at that time omce, IVinctpatui Tufculano, eleven Counts Tufculant, with the most powerful weapons and weapons, in which He appeared impoverished by the fomno Deipara, as fummo morning iemoratamin- for they will live, so that extra- they would find the neophyte and the religious who into the fire of truth, ipfispomus they would show off the gold; for faith wills, as fubminiftratis fubtibus, omnibuf- qucrebus, to be founded in honor and there they girded Ecclefia with fe. Therefore, by divine warning, the Princes Tu- The Fculans did not just start the construction they were fed and so large and copious They enriched themselves by rents, to the extent of hundreds Monks are easily killed there, fub S. Bartholomew, the first of this Ab- beat fub named CrypU FerrdU, Ar- chimandrite, founder Income annui, as a&a teftantur Archives, ad people run, together with ziEcclefii, great Pope and Emperor rich legions, ipfi fubjetlis, together with Library of manuscripts ma, who lusts after Sixtus V, and Tatdis V, Pontificum juflu Faticance Bibltothecce ceflit, in the year iJi They then held the Poris in the town of Tufculano Comites to search Tufculani fub with great reverence KpangeUJld depi&am, than to majo- tu the matter of the name of the celebrity in this place to compare Gregory the Pontiff O. M. from the family of counts, avoid Tufculana in the year nioa %omank Eccleia, rescued from thence by her elders You have been to be inferred and the same the image is said to be true with the devotion of the spine, on this day and every day, fubdu&o veil, in the same Eccleflade- He hates to show off. They will intervene further Gracce with %omana Ecclefia fchifmate, the number of monks gradually decreased. Crypts nod, to the ikcular Princes so many returned to the occafion of deriving fe prx-buit, until Pw II, in the year Aug. in the form of a recommendation He was a good-hearted man administration of the Bejfanon Card. dt- of the monacht order, who recovered Injufte removed from the river poffeflions, Monafleriwn priest's vigor, how much it was allowed, he returned. Today it is fubftat prote- 5lioni ufufrudluario Francifci Cardi- naUs (Barbarini, fub form Commen- right, next to the verfus, which in his memo- Julius Antonius Rodul phus Crypt me hard by the name of Ferrata they say Ouod femper iron here drs operoft tame Kil, however, prefers meaflorida Ydla Ouce rested once in Beffarion. SecfFimcike, your ftetas Ji peEloris Optdt A more pleasing name, a more lovely name; Ipfe -peni buc Trmceps: 1cl fi%efpu- slow down Trcemitantur apcs in your tutt. This is about the foundation of Crypus Ferrau let them hurry Reftat, that which was prophesied to us, vnla, Ci.
that this place was once the root of Cicero fuifle, Acadcmtam, a; tivis menfibus, with a great influx of men we will show that it is crowded; where Abacus marble guilty CI- ocrouis trap Zophorus Cicero's V E T U S N O with the great fervor of the deputation qujdtiones, which in "Tufculanis qufeftiomhm we read with wonder, of contemptible death, of tolerating 1erfie fortunx tciibus, of propulfiindis ammi perturbatbus, deVitabcata, funnels But this Jocum Vtllam Ctceroms fuiife, I do not think better de- monftrari poffe, than ipfis Ctceronis scribes; to whom Alpbonfus was adftipulated Ciacconius in the Life of Eugene IV, Leander in the register of Italy, Francifcw Ouadus, Fcrdinandtts Hugellus inftcrafua Ita- Yes. But let us fool, to the truth showing confidence tions The first noftra; it is a method of acquisition ara, five marble abacus, formaro- cut, about twenty spans in Circumference, the art of cufubtil ex They were seen to be blameless for their failure the concubine of the Gods, that is, Maras, Mccurius, Friday, Saturday, others that; qui abacus a monacbis a. vm. in the garden near the fountain, commonly known as Mafcaro nor God, he was the first dete; who then with many others of various an- the records of the Tiquitates, from the Prince Tampbilius, nephew of Innocent XVon- tificis, taken away from the garden of Fcrrau VtlU fua; Tancratiana, ubiinhancuf- on that day he was brought in. the table of the Abacus five round menfa, to the abacus in double pro- portion to a height of five pal- morals were erected, how vain: God- rum was elaborately produced Cujufmod's monument, utiappri- me tn unafuartmepiftolarumadM. Fa- he will write down the Gallus, so also the lu- does not provide the most reliable information in another place than the Villa of Cicero exftitifle But he calls already registered that is the monument of TmtfpQov menjiferum Perhaps for Arpmo He would depart from the city of the wolves to Fab. Gall. Anxure, ideft, Terracina, then com- lingering, imaginary friend, epi- He gave ftohvn, in which I was fummum it expresses the treachery, the disobedience as well V U M L A T I U M. Gymnaftum, then the Sibliotheca Tufculana, pi&uris fimulaclirifque, why buy at any cost sends His forehead hurts from Sa- Don't let the priestess Sdfccoemtas cry suitable fua; profeflion of studies; and then also a reminder Mention, five trapezophores He does this in the following words: trapezophorum, ft deletlat te habebts; fm autfententia changed, I will have He also remembers the new I will give the rooms, where; various tables they are bad Living room Are they an integral part of Tufculani? I wanted to decorate the papers. Where by par- Tufculani understands that lo- when at the end of the editor's tnont tately formed, which is used as a place of amcenifli- the mouse, with the eyes of a great part of Latium so also there with the difcipu- The matter was addressed in ancient times, whence de He was challenged by various arguments, such as book of Tufculani qitceftiontbus infcri- the foot teaches; inhancufquedieme; te- that lady, which; he will write, even if he is broken together with the porticoes they are piled up, to be used in the shape of a patct. He also makes mention of the dead; which is the same, Hermatbenam, from Mer- fj% to the court, Formiano in the town of Tufculana He caused it to be carried, as he wrote in the epiphtole one to Pomponius Atticus; given is book epiphtolarum: As for me of Hermathena fcribis, by mthi gratus it is Academia: it is proper, that Hermes common to all, Minzrvx is a fancier of his gym- nafti: why would I, utifcnbts, ctteris also in many things that place nes; que anteamiht fignamiftfli, eanou- Vtdi; in Foimknofunt, where I I was already thinking, all that m Tuf- I will bring back in epiphtolaci Tati's book: How much I have commanded you, as it were you understand to come to our Tufculan I would utifcrtbis, ctires. Of this kind H manure. Athanasius
fimulacrum, which Cicero says from Mer- cttrto MinerVa composed, which And he calls Hermatbena, from Formimo transported to Tufculana Street, corrupted by the vice of the times, nachis thence dete&umdiuibidemftetit until from Prince Camtillo Tampbilius in yilla fuam fancratiana tranflate, It is fixed there for this day and every day. But it was a large from white marble, face, cxterif- that of the limbs of the woman, but of the mind She lies to her husband. From which it is clear Cicero writes about this myth Tufculana was transported and so many fa-culis among Crypu Ferrau mdcra the fuiffe di- ximos, there also exftitiffe Vdlam Ckeroms teaches clearly. ? Ctcero remembers some of the rum columnarumin lib. to the Fifth I was a brother, in these words. The town in Arcano, (which is the same as Tufcula- whether) I am very pleased, because the fummam dignity of the paved porticoes he had quodmihi finique apparmt, p What is my water? ipfa all clear, ncolumn: they are poltufunt And a little bit: Columns nor return, nor from the region of Dipbilus collo- carat, it will be demolished. It is difficult to use a pencil, r line. I am completely afraid in a few menfibtts the work of Diphili peifeclttm would be And these same columns which: Ecclefiam Crypu FerraU inhunc diemfutinent, 8shoulder; which as Bartboloniteus in the year iozo the earth was destroyed he found, and thus the fabric was fua; very useful opp CoIiiiotb rum one, as in the Life of St. Bartholomew legi- tT" tur when I already caaenc10 threaten rum imfUitt. tUr5 is supported by a miracle at the end of the support. But to other things all the towns of Bormian, Pom- Kharem, Cuman, Sinuefifan, Tufcu- brought the wool, in the epiphtola fupra cited ad He teaches the Fifth Brother clearly. And, he says, with great heat, no for he remembers the elders, so called Arpinati I refreshed myself with the smoky edge of the river rum days In Arcanum, (Tufcula- Kircher rmm)ad iduumSeptcmbrisfui: VtlU TufcuU- Mlde mibi was pleased, because of the fact that mam dignitatem paVimentata portico ba- he was drinking And he died. of the Arcanum of Kaffaris there is a need for a more comprehensive approach someone else's for bnagines isle paLeftra iyptfciihe, isr the Nile of many Thiloti- morumeft, not Diphilorwh; fediy ipfiea adibinms Plutarch, in the life of Cicero nis, of Tufculana Cicero's life, Toi&fZvxKtt? ov TX pgUVXTXTZTVie}. asos TxstyiKxg, The place where just the Crypt Ferrata Aqra is seen, the daughter of Gceroms juiiie from the ipia, we found an abundance of water. Vo- that water falls under different names, ab to the ancient %omans; now Crabra, just tepula, already Marrana; fed Crabne nomi- Water "H r Ciabra especially the ice cream Indeed, he prays about the Agrarian law. I said Tufculan of the water Crabra Ve- I'm hanging on. qiti d municipality farm ac- I took Then, given by Sylla to my son, I would not split the rolls. And inepiftok About the water Crabra, he said, lead the way tur ijr ji now that it is too much yet I would like to do it. But it was derived hsc water in the form of a river through me diam the village, whose manifest indications there are aux dudus who go this way and that way the day of the earth lumutilitatiloci, fedmaximead deli- they were contributing to the baths. eratau such an abundance of waters, which very much and in this day and age it is necessary to put him in the epitaph lis fuis ad Atticus ad The fifth brother is forced to call. This town was probably from Clodtus, the enemy of the 8th Ci- Ciceronis, the flame of every fire reftauratx poft the return of Cicero from Arpino's country was fua. The truth is not anything to the antiquity of this place here the Pontifical diploma, which: today CrypuFerra Ecelefu was still undressed are read, I add. Diploma OLD NEW LATIUM. Privileges CrypCGe Ferrate Gampi Saints Jndalgen tie calittts conftrinatcc Transflat iinagintj Luke de- ficlx Dipbmata a Tontificibm encelfa Ecclefia Crypt Ferrata. JNnocentius Tertius to all faithful To others, confounded and broken, iftam
devoutly scorning bus dictbus Sunday, feftivity bus of the Sanclos Apoftolorum, fefti-, , vitatum noftne Dominse, illorum Martymm, the remains of all; here j, are, and also St. John the Baptist, fc- The Pope conceived of the pious virtues the third part of all sins remiflion, and a thousand years of indulgence nations: on other days half of indulgences. Boniface VII gave you indulgences for the door, which is called Porta Sanda, about which all Ckrijli hddes entering, and coming out, devoutly confessed and broken on Sundays, thirteen times deliver one soul from purgatory, who fanctiflim Father seeing fandifli- eff the place, and not with the bodies five corpses would be polluted stinking, caused to be transported by Htcrufa- He made the earth fan and fpargi through the whole circuit of Ecclefis, which is called Campus SanEius, in which the Cemetery bodies do not smell, nor do hearts are broken The same with Blessed Gregory VIII the fanclum Monafterium would live, ipfo and confirmed in the same Ecclefia He granted indulgences for whom with devotion appeared ciBeatiflimaVirgo, saying, Son, to the infancy of my son, and My house is full of people ociava AlTumptionis Beatce Marix Vtrginis becomes the avenger of all sin rum, and because of the devotion rumindulgences, pereumconfir- of the mats, the image of Iphius Gloriofe Virgin from the hands of Blessed Luce Ean gelfta depi&am, qua; was to go to ctYttate Tufculana, with the greatest devotion he caused to be transported to ifta Ecclefia, is the principal image of the whole world, de with which Beatus painted Lncas. Faratte With a certain matron Capcllam. where the bodies of the victims of the Nile Bartbo- Ingrejj the rudder is filled with water; fspirit ra- j$j pta vifa fibi is to be transported by Angel light before the court of Christ, to whom he said, daughter because of the revulsion of my fervour You will never enter Nili Bartbolomei ifta Chapel, and say also to all the women who wish to enter that ab graftu ejufdem Capel fe ab- let them be silent, and pray for prayers from without let them do it, and they will be heard. When two men named B. Nilus, Bartbolomaus, Monacbi Ordi- ntsSanttiBafilti, Calahri from the country, where- rum in this facratiflima Bafiltca fepulta there are bodies, they will come from Byant, feu de partibus Conftantinopolttams, par- Fnjur tis fcilicet to the Blessed a certain fpelunca, called Crypt, here near F They will live in Monaftertum, in the same no- you Regina Cadi, the most glorious Virgin, he appeared, saying: Son of the blessed I said, this is a place of habitation. a good veftee of the operation was taken why do you need to work rare in the building of the fan&iflimje Do- my mouse: in this place, and behold I will give a cousin to you, that is, an apple the accused, who for the first stone you must keep in mind. And in the same in the night the Blessed Virgin appeared to the excellent priest and with the great men of life Tnfculame, of the House of the Patricians The confluence, you say, that approach they went to the closed Crypt, and found rent two faithful Chriftians, having you have a golden apple from that lady the same was given as a son-in-law, ct. umpomumreciperedebereht, spin for the first foundation stone. Whence I prxdidi noble men moved fue- they run from the city of Tufculana, 8c come- tesadhunclocuminventor, as it were had announced to them, and the recipients mum with respect from the hands of the fan ctorumpriedicr. orum, fubtusCampa- mle for the foundation, and the principle Ec- they poured out a lot, so that the fat H golden Saints ATHANAS the golden be lifted, the bell tower Ecclefia was destroyed, hence to inftar of that apple is a favorite of Campa nile fimilitudinario; pred&i fan- And these men trust in the Lord I will fan their lives in peace, in ifto tm&o Monafterio, where is Cappdla of those doing Nilt Bartholomew miracles On the marble table: Myapi"- f. then atm. viciv tyu T? Kf ocpifjiac x) P'afay. X. M IN" II. But we have already brought us to this point let's get away with it.
vaisCi- ulci hodie cxAntiquariisomanis w&riw. pr0prii him in lOCo, where we found him fttones Tufculanas fuisAuditoribusex- plicafle we mentioned a little earlier, affinum Tufcult in the yoke of the mountain pofiti; Fed who wrote the words of Cicero tn EpiphtoUs ftasfamt- with the snares of the cam not fupra, fed below Tufctlani mon- let your yoke be stiffened, not ciabitur: fic eniminOrationeprodo- mofuateftatur: Cwndomus mthiinpa- Latium, a town in Tufculano, the other adal- it was transferred to the third party. And com- liar in Martial's words odai: Necutfuperni villacdwfowTu- The Circassians touch the walls: Tufculi fu- perni, this cft, in the mountain of the viiiaCi- Kra fuperiora Cicero Vtllam fuam habe- "nSi bat Tufculamm. Of course not mod Mo- aj-Q I joke that where the priest is today HBoixm. Mo? mhomn s. Sajiin is commonly known as Grotta ferrata, conftitifle, it is so certain, Cicero nis in Orat for the Agrarian law; I I K I R C H E R I Tufculan for the water Crabra VeBigdl pending, I received a farm in the municipality of Qutcia. And in Epit. family Epit. About water Crabra, what is going on in the ship, and what it is also nothing, however in Orat. for L. Corn. stammer We de M. Tu- gion potiui, qttam C. Aquilinum we supported each other Eft aqua Crabra AquaCra- properly illaqua, whose origin was bra' ducitexradicibusMwttf Albani, &ex by various streams, by the secret lakes of the neighbours the path into this valley just as the Fupra deLacuAlbana I poured out, which emerges into the river, I was then diverging, Marana paf- it is called fim, in the ttrbe also of Almonis needed by name in which every year Cybelcs were fond of washing the dead; and hxc water through a deep valley it will be bitter, where the various arts are carried out by He is dying. Vtlla vero, m dorio Aimon day, such a great abundance of water overflows, Water as the rivers seem to flow. Place Cofu& seftivoprccfertimpore, amenity mouse But this water has a higher level He attributed his origin to Monte Albano, ex by which water led and hsc e&quamkCrabnr, which they call Tepula, than Cicero so much that he sneered, and his marvels, bright marble there; of which below. And so it was Vtlla first L. SylU Declarator, which a Sylla, like Cicero, Pliny c. tells: Scripftt? abexercitufequeque do- born at Nohm, legate in the war of Mar- fig, and that also in the town of Tufculana, qutcfttit poftea Cicero, he painted. From and he came to the lower part of the mountain of VillaCicero in place of faith, five feceflus literary caufa, the grace of refueling the soul faith to do my mother was devoted to literary affairs with the Auditors, at the top of the Tufcu the wool of the mountain of which a little before as if VETIIS Sc NO like Mufis, more suitable, to transfer he loved V U M L A T I let it not happen to a woman's mind U M Academia tufcula The field Ciiiic. Paffienus Crippus flgumfiul ri Diana fanwtt. From Ydla therefore to Cicerdnis and to He is attached to an Academic position through the middle of the mountains; and I will make this mountain, which once they joked with Corne; of whose grave, a prodigious tree; of various sizes They deliver various things. Pliny i? , c. EJi he said, in the suburb of Tufculani who is called Corne, is here ancient religion Diana: facratm zLatio; As if the art of tonfilicomafagei ncmore. call out Borem maxtmam etate noftra aiamaYit Paffienus Crippus, bis Conful, Orator, Agrippina's marriage to Nero Yigno is more famous afterwards; to be struck completely eamjolitus, not only cubarefub her, fed Ytnum to him ojfundere. Neighboring Luke is a holly isr ipja significant feet ambttu cau- you say sending ten trees, to be fed, and the leaves are made of gold. At least for a long time and around today a hill grown for labor; another tan I did not find that one, but that hill, which
Today, the town of Sabellorum was abandoned MontaltorUm stands out from the beech trees that he died, and to the jury today CaValleriorum nobilis (Pxomane family: fube The place of death of all in Tufcu- the most pleasant wool, and because of the distance and a wide open proppe&um, as well because of the grace of the third person at the time from the confetti trees bram, and those who had been drowned it is refreshing. And at this point the plum also of Diane, of which "Plinuts he speaks, exftru&um fuifle, ex fplendo- in the matter of rubbish, and of rushes, beeches, and oaks. the cube, which: in each and every day the piofa fcetura are sprouting; not obfuscating I throw out the arguments. Women's Temple tinged Because this place is in Yta Latina is placed, in this place, by the priest of the temple of Fortune about the middle of Yi. e Latin %oma Tu- tempLm' fculum ufque, so Valerius Maximus I. r,
c. Fortunx is also a young woman crum, which is the Latin way to the fourth mtliidrium, at that time when he finished cratum, with which Coriolanus was abducted by Ur- Du: bis matcrme prayers of the repulsed, nonfcmcl, Fedbissolocutum conftitit Jns almost to the Word; you are The author explains to Paul the fufius of the two men in March Corioh no: I? rinquit, a tribune plcbis day dicla He conceived at the Wolfs; and under the duke Attius Tullus roused the Romans against him, Zfr adquartum ab urbc stone caftra po it was cleretur, d Veturia mother, Volumnia by his wife, by the number of his matrons, you omiffobello, as a traitor, he is occiput. there the temple of Fortuna Muliebri was built it is safe. Livy tells the story differently; Co- Riolanus, says Circeios He drove out the Roman colonists from there. and delivered that free city to the Wolfs. then on the 1st road transferred to Satricum, Longulam, Pollufcam, Coriolos, noVella He took many towns; then Lavinius re- took unc afterwards Corbion, Vitel- He took Liam, Trebia, Lavici, and Pedus. Poltremii leads the city from Pedus, i? to foflas CXxM&sfiVe Cluilias, from ur be mtllia pajfuum caftrispofitis, thence agrum populates Rome Where indeed? This is the famous fortune of women was a temple mouse It is based on the allegations made a little earlier To the authors, that is or thousands of paf- I was a mother, and indeed in Via Tufcu- lanaux with Latin is the same, diftitif- Fe. Since VieLatine, five Tufcu- lanct, even the vegitations are fuperfint, I say it in the same place, where just before. the trees of the city are seen, near Hofpi- of that, which is the middle (a fruit between A tufculum holds the road C A P U T ATHANASIUS K I R C H R I C A P U T III T)e Sepulchre of the old Furies on Mount Tufcu- wool, not the same DtteFlio Graves Um Territoriwn Tufcula- whether, and when and where: in it worthy of commemoration They are handed over to the authors, no I would explore energetically, among other things nerabilcs PP Cappuccini aquxduclus together with the bathroom receptacles, in The garden of the ipforum was newly opened to me They found that they were for something else as to so many and so many, then Lucullt, and the towns of others with abundance of water to be enriched, they do not seem fervent, to use ex the water was poured out because of the ruins of the roads it is clear Not far from here on the same theme to reveal the Tomb of the Furies, which used to be the oldest It is worthy of trust, yes also that as much as possible I must have been angry. In the year i6? on the menfe of April, Tufculanis CamaldulorumVtiojaxs, Ru- I don't know what's going on around the mound dam digging, the ground more violently would shake, it happened that the earth, already many the bed of starches falling the nation was destroyed, of which soon let us know more. PP camaldulenfes whose territory the place was with the multitude of labors, the earth removed, at first, indeed, as a kind of fire some four stones And what they discovered; then the gate out peppered with a stone and a huge bundle I will give, the bow fuperpoiito, and finally the crypt, in which the tomb dem, inside what a variety of things, what a little they found, together with
surrounded by various depredators, of whom the name of the Furies there And so in the first year, when Tufculi somewhat autumn leaves Ru- I would indulge in ftication, to examine you give fepulcbri incriptions, csteram- that ancient fupelle&ilem from Camal- called by the elves, pretended to all the matter having been carefully covered, what about this? I will open my heart, I will open it in a few words. I say therefore first, this Furiagen- tis Sepulcbrum fuiflfe, how registrations, which in the depots entwined were, clearly they stink when I name all the Furies let them bear faith True with Furiorumgens it is divided into various branches; quality ifte ramusfuerit, tumapcrireconor, where before about Furiorumgente something from gm- Glandorpbij Onomaflicus pramifero. The fury of the most ancient nation it grinds and because even at the beginning Pctpubltca omank; I want to exa&osRe- their lives in the Confulars of Fafti It is done in a way that is worthy of admiration it is, that DtVtis Hieronymtts ad Furia s. quickly I was a noble matron of the time, from Ca- S"" wedding noviflfe tAsxxa. FamUiamFurio- aUh-nut i rum inquatuor Ramosdivifam, at Fums- vcteres %omanar rerumfcriptores re- 4mi I perish. They were born in the Camilian period The Philos were older; dior i. Sixtus YuriiisPbilMCOmuh. tum. T"" ramiK geffit, when Cn. Martus Coriolanus of the Furies three; would bring war, a year from the city stored i. Agrtppa Yurius Pbilrn Tribunus He was famous for his military power in the year City Cond. P. Furius Pbilus Conful was an nollrb. cond. Cum Quinciio Pla- in a flash, in the first year of his life, with passion in the 2nd Punic War, first Pra; turam, then de cenfuram na&us, he had a colleague M. Attiltum%egulum, vitafun&usFd- bio IV, Marcellus Cofs. P. Furius son of fuperior, Confilia of L. Maltelli to be delivered Italy
V E T u S N Italy! He betrayed Scipio, thence to Paterus cft, auclore LiYw. f. Vurius Tilus, adept at Tixtma tus year City Cond. Hifptmkm he obtained a better province, who lust is badly managed, Vrxnefte He ended his life there. L. Vurius Vbilus, Prxtor P. Lici- nw, C. Cafio Coff. province of Sardinia he held it, in the year Urb. cond. de in which Cicero m Srutus Fmi i m The other llamu was Vuriorunu whom They call meauinos. Stxtus Vurius Medullintif, Sexti Vompeji z. SpuriusVwiusMedtillmus, Con- ful faelus in the year Urb. cond. war averfusoxmoved, and all widely popuktus, a rich army of Pra: dis Yuis. Lucius Vurtus Medullinus, confu a broad geflit with C. Manlw Volfone. Purius Medullinus, Conful cum L. Tinarius; Triumvir Colony When finally He makes the horses more daring in war barren, surrounded again when you were oppressed will melt Liv. x Scidecade Sp. Furius Mcdullinus Fifcus, Tri- mum Conful annoVrb Cond. o. by JEquis opprefus, by T. Ouintium Profulem was freed. Six. Qmntilius Varus Conf. fuffe&us, in Magiftratii fuc- ydec. Agrippa Vurius Medullmus, colpheea Titus Quintius, in the year urb. Cond. against the Wolfs took Livius lib. T, . L. Vurius Medullinus, fifty Tri O V U M L A T I U M. lium M. Vurii Camilli Volfcos in- fequens, to turn the backs then the army will fall in love, rius Camtlus with a great attack in Vol- attack the army of the poor being, more powerful than Furius Medul- had already finished, with the whole army ftiumdiffipato&fufo reftituifet LiV. Sp. Furius Medullinus, Tribune You have the power to shelter the soldiers, Volfcos invading, abominable with flame and iron He issued a warning. LiV. The third branch of the Vurium They call them camels. whom I was mad Camille The ancients called Camillos, who Camillo- matter, un reports Sex. Tomponius l. in Lmgua Hetmfca vero Minifter Deo- Mercunus Camillus was said to use rum one of the mihtum can be fused, twice in it is with Macrobiuml. Saturn. c. From this fury of Camillus House, MFurl; M. Vurius Camilltts, a Vuriani named CM-iti.
the only and eternal glory, and three times the recovery of the empire was lost. Tri- a group of soldiers tc five Didaturas, three Tri- He got a lot of people. Valfcos Cape the children wandered. Vejorum Vrbe He took ten years of infidelity and the people of I{oman, a great feast he got rich But glory turned to envy so, Ardea is sent into exile, he that against the disgust of the whites who will triumph. At last the city a iiitercepted by the Gauls of the Scones, with a great the treachery of all returned from exile catus, I lead the army of Callos to in- He fell to pieces, the city of the people the old men, already exhausted, wishing to migrate, Conful sighed. Verentmum Volfco He took the town. in the year Vrb. . Six. Vurms Medullimts, Tribu- nus Confulari poteftate in the year Vrb. Cond. random against confidence he retained the city, the city he retorted, and fled to the Tufculans he returned the office; finally in the year Vrb. Cond. hence the glory of the gifts, pefte fub- side is The only man in all fortune but the title is so great; it was glorious, di- gnufquc I was mad Pacilius A T H A N A S I and the habit, which was fruitful from %oimt the founder of the city %oimt fer- rent Livy, is" Sp. Fttrius Camillus, son of Marcus lius first of all vum then in the Republic of Magiftrates obtained, in the year Vrb. Cond. Liv. L. Furius Camillus, 8c ipfe M. The son, Conful and Di&ator, Appius He had a colleague, Claudius, of the Gauls destroyed the remains, all Latium, conquered and to the rebels of the Volfico horses and around the peoples tifque, restored to power. LiVtus
Hifce, three ferfeculis riors things gefbe among the Scribes me- they stay For it is in human affairs thus prepared, as if by a certain fate Familix, like a prince let the plains and kingdoms now flourish, cre- sing, now the rurfus diminishes tur, they give However, there were several hu- the right of the name, the desire of the Republic "them- by the pores, as also of the Gephia, of this name we are men. C. Furius Camillus Cicero conjunctive Fttrius Camillus Proconful Afirica, son of Tiberius, TSLumidta %oman joined the Empire, who was the first god of the Furix House infatuated Furius the elf was, Camdlus Sorbonianus Confulatu fub Tiberto, annoVrb. Cond. theme pore Paffion Dominicas, famous His son Furius Camtlus, anno Vrb. Cond. Acts of exile of the treason of Fuffpe&us Tacitus The Fourth Branch of the Stolen Nation they were called fadii. (Pacilior's first encounter C. Fu- rius, who in the year Vrb. Cond. Confused with M. Tapyrio Crafifus geffit unhappily true of things from him geftis, tribufemotus, private life led I K I R C H E R I C. Furtts Tacilius, son of the preceding fused with Fabio AmbuHo gef- it happens, about which yide LiV. in the year Vrb. Taalios at the time of Cicero's viguif fe, the document is the Tacilian House, than Voluiffete to rescue Ctceron Ftatur M. Frater ad Atticum l. Epistle z. There were other Furies: C. Furius Acu- Leo, Quxftor, M. Catceron's aunt Tul- So he had a wife. A. The theft of Antius, an old poet, quoted by Macrobius P. Furius Anthinus I. C. whose men tio inpandetl. juris L. Furius Btbaculus Qusftor, oc- He lay down in the battle of Cannenfi. zi. L. Furius Bibaculus Prxtor Val. Max-. Lp. I. M. Furius Btbaculus, the poet of Jambi- cus, familiar Corn. Gaul, praise tus from Corn. Tacitus l. God is clear. he prays M. Furius Crafiipesfa&us pristor an- no Vrb. Cond. $6j. .Province of Gaul he obtained, then Sicily that Lil. The theft of Crafiipes, the son of Cictron, to whom the death of Typhion Frugi He placed Tulliola. But ha: c dc Family of Furies they can Let us examine, therefore, what the rum of the burians of this name Je- Cup Furius tur-, it must be done, that 3{ami rian name, brought here, into others they stretched out various branches in fear, to use usually in poor families ri I therefore say verifiably Effe, said Sepulcbrum fuiffe of those Furies, who in the Republic of Tuficulani they held a portion For as
re&e in the preceding often fum was j from lib. LiVti, Sena with the help of the Tufiulans Volficis They would find a tulip, Camillus on the contrary OLD NOVttM contraeosbellummoveverevoluit, which and put it back into power, many of these the name of Furius began to be restored there run And hofce Furios fiiiffe that is, whose fepukbrum at this time t A T I U M He was under the Tufculan yoke.
the registrations of the fallen fat fuperque demonstrate, which in the following we show you Depofitoria cineraria, together with the inscriptions The discovery of the Sepukbro Furies. T. yalm. g. {luz mfcritwltes m jrtbjmnttU t. C. 1'OVR. . CyoTurw C. I'OVR M. M. C. Tamara JP- M. H Jl. Ttba quareicat- CN. AOVR. And here: there are records, which the tombs of the five founders, that figure which you see, fepucro included scratched find mouse, which together with Ill. n, and learned Dear Sir, Mr. Falcone no, antiquarian: literature; the best with which faith and ingenuity profimus: where the note hafce the letters F differ a lot between fe, however each of them marks the son of the other we cannot give an account rem&confuetudincm ris Scribes, hafce promifcue fcribe- they really loved it, or even that FproP fcripferint in the times of your desire letters already adapted to a better form. Infcriptions with these words, in the manner of the Omani priests, they grind Miffum to me in the last year from To. Marc-Antonio Colonna, Pa- numifma to the leader of the lianas silver, the lustful part of which is the name refertL. FiKnV: how to register in I also found the beginning of the urns; that whether he chooses this or another, I do not know. It is easy for the bed of fate, and for a few be understood by words, not of any kind They are abominable, which Gruterus was in I z lnfcrijJtio ATHANASIUS Klrcheri Sepukhri I lost it is known Aioj crt' mandi ca- davtrd-, t Vafa co- dttoria Ashes.
Infcriptionibmrirokrt, zYuriagcnte la- the first of which was Vinea FranciJaGccbi finds, this of words tenor T. FURIUS M. R CAMILUS He lived years. The other in the church of St. Joamis before the Latin gate, I buy this. M. FURIUS M. F. HEART RUFVS. But which of us is more powerful? are given But already at what time this Se- it becomes a seasoned beauty, to be invigorated rcftat We are approaching a difficult matter, then or most of all, that there is no year from the city stored in hifce inscriptions cool down; and so I did not conjure some things to be decided. That that it may be done, I say that M. Vurius almost wants it The times of Camillus the Elder Yamilia Yuriorum, who was in Tufculano Awo, I want the City of Tufcamcontra. fce dus with %omans pa&um, Volfcis, tefte LiVio, who was buried, and for the same reason the caufa was conquered by Camillus, batur, exftmclum fuiffe, but not far from it is similar; nor are the arguments of this matter wanting mints; First is the Infcriptions ra- tio, in which, V, OV, that is, r, ro FURIO, FOURIO is written, in the manner of writing at that time, that is, about or maybe years ago the city was founded, as from the Ojirata Column about the same period of time the records are open; in which case almost OV for V. use NAVEBOUS for na- Vigo BOUBOUS, for oxen the script is read, which method is po- in later times more cultured already hnguk la- tina, it is read by fimplex fcript, to use from the previous entries tet: FVRIVS for FOVRIVS I will say this in good time. exftru&um, confectionary gray found, then spent in time, there; for, as Marlianus exclaims, the custom of cremating bodies Numam fompilius, of the Omani Re- ttritt gemufquead Antoninos Csefares du- raffe, at most four, or five from the city of starch. rope ra, says he, of the dead they were called, ijuan- do bodies cremabanturjelfcpelteban- tur who at this time He was carried away by thunderbolts; really commanding bodies throughout the Bjipublic pore duraVtt The manner of mourning here was t Leffum was led by the relatives, and friends of the deceased, then the pyre
exftruebatui-jinqua, combuftisjamca- left with ashes, ur- they were brought in impofit, destitute fepukhris, on which the altar was placed; a marble, a box, a box or a table, The names of the founders were written down of those who died in some family profingulisfinguk were entrusted to them; and they were of a double kind, Gentiles or familiar fepukhra, feu rather ccemi- teria In the former they were deposited those who to complete some fam- they belonged to the liam in the latter, those who are at one they looked only for the family; nor it was permitted to any other of the same race, in order to give them a special privilege iron And this was the beginning of fe- the beauty planted in the Tufculan field, from that race of the Yurii whom the at the first gate of the House of Ramo, we have taught the fuiife. Of course, the images of Geniuses You may see the sepulchre, fub with two heads of portxfront in- of guilt and there were Sepulchres, and theirs who were stored in it, like Geniuses some are protective. Moreover, what was found in this Sepulchre? they are vain, they were all daughters, feu r
from the land of Samia it is a good thing pore Republicx fupra indicated condition then the fuiffe For as Stucchius re&e He was the founder of the Roman Empire. pneter VafaJiHilia isr from the land of Samia coBa, no other exprctiofwri matena Vafa in fum reccpilfe, until the luxury of the Cttfarum poftea everything OLD NO all in gold, silver, and gems learned And Pliny book c. id Yafn and CryllaUintfque, fed ficlilibm by Vcteribm praltbabatur tnnocentius. Locpamx emm here of the ancient Romans poverty, he says, The Roman people were the first to rule he founded, and with him the next day To the immortal gods Simpulus and Catinus fiiitli facrificat, que confuetudo d Numa II Romanorum who is the first man By the laws of the gods break up the time and every fancy it happened He laughs at his complicity Juvenal Sat. It was easy for Numa to laugh; , black that Catinum But now to the rest in the Sepulcher let us proceed to the end of the fire. ; I. Of TSLumifmate. The old used to, tefte Goltjo. fpul- chris to impose some Numtfinata of that House of He- to the memory of the king's children fixed Such a numifna in this pra; was discovered, whose front part fpeclabi the man with dignity lem, nor arms, Illuftrem, lustful express triremecumnomineRO- M A. ceat, I should say the professor, or M. Furit Camillus, or C. Duillius, who of Fynchron they were almost maritime claves: against Car- thaginenfes ducis, as trirernis ftrat, numifma fuifle, end of any incri- option, which clearly shows, tempo- re already fa: pius indicated cufum fuifle by which the custom of infcriptions vi- was wearing For the registration of nu- Mifmatum, first con- pnus voice were fixed, to use from Annuli m Nurais- mata se- pretty-o- rum V U M L A T I U M. fj fulibufque pofteris, then to eorun- that power, and to perpetuate I will give gifts from the Kaffaris riam, you will discover the fuifle, when numifnata non nifi S C. ROME Numismatics is clear. . II. Rings Rings of all kinds, reos, a: neos, aureos, argenteos Scpul- chris put the leaves together with the ashes bus, fufe in fua Da&yltotbeca oftendit Pride daily experience cet, both in this, and in the knowledge of others the discovery of the vorumfepukhs. Who- for the dam was only burning to per- feet of union concord: immor- to demonstrate such an effect, they were caught in the fponfalitii: some God- bound with images, chri cuftodiam is supposed to be very powerful bant: other magic birds, whosoever life against the magicians, to the Prince they had to obtain favor, inde- they were brought to work with a desire for food. But with the origin of the Rings, fi- hieroglyphics, fufe in lib. Oedipus we did, and we sent Le&or away. It is certain that all the rings from imme- Annuio-
fem- by in ajftimationefuiffe, tumpropter an impressive ornament of the fingers, as well or most of all, that I do not know what to divide whether and the myth of the whole of his fig they would be afraid of the ra side, not the ethnics only, fed Emperors, Kings, Princes, quin and fupremi Chriftiana: Antiftites of Religion, Pontiffs Ma- ximi, the myftery of the rings in the smoke they had a reverence for the femper. C A P U T ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI C A P U T IV Algidus Mons, sr. town of Roboraria, Corbio, Ad the tenth of Terentine, and a group of Tufcu- the towns of Jani Agri. j Binam Jlgidus mountain at Hiftoricos most famous fi- itumhabueritplcrique they doubt; some when some confuse Mount Jalbanus with the yoke of the Alban mountain. We do not use all this territory We have wasted our honey, and so nothing we did not, as a genuine place we would discover that at this point we ftitiffe, not of pure conjuration, fed from of Hannibal, bcMarcius Coriolus marched we will bring the bus almost. many fans rant, how Jligid JEquorum the town effed up, when in ipfb Tufcu- the wool of the field becomes the heart of the field; Jequos true mountain dominion beyond Prene- triumphaffe flinos Tiburtinofquemontes we loudly sigh: every day fcat I would like to make you happy licofiffimam, to use femper aerrima cum Oman's wars are gefferunt, so that; desire than they invaded the Tufculan territory A close neighbor, as if convenient to continue the wars to occupy the place Fe. ItaLivius JHquorum expedkio- reciting the vine: bring the fields of the Lavacians they passed into the Tufculani hills. As but Tufculamts was the mountain, Jlgi- while Strabo clearly teaches in these words: K'XiraJl Afl&'w; A'ri' d&inp&aw' avns t%imfji. im nTwioiov? 'd[An; . eat TsmtAava oppa? vzrz$&ctcra. , fii&v TmAs w KitTtujti Sxi &'AytPov The Via Latinadi begins next to the Appia turning away from near Rome: tranjienf- from which Tufculan mountain, i? in- three times Tufculum and Mount Alban, he tends to the small town of Algis. Since therefore he destroyed the city of Jligid I have already said that his native let's finish JEquos, five jqm, : through the Pnenephtine mountains to both Vuu. Dwell on the banks of the ancients, the common Geo- It is a tradition of the ancient Greeks. Nation anciently fruitful to none, Jboriginum remains, Marfos inter Latinofque, in prsecelfis falebrofif mountains tat, which does not amount to %omank at the time of the business, they are full ancient monuments, as Vir- Gilius incinne fane defcribic Horridapracipue cuigens, affuetaqm much For hunting in the woods, you are a hardy Horseman lumps Armed they drill the earth, femperqut fresh Con1e&are juVat prttdas, and Live rapture While the most frequent with them they infested the land of Oman; hence from rPrMieftiws montibm, through LaYican Gaborum's field, like a wedge where- let him be in the ipfu and the Tufculan Infernctes Jligidum runt, having entered into a whole war against the Omanis as a kind of faith. It is certainly surprising it is, in the borders of so many JEquos so many JEquomm habuiffe towns, as many Authors refer- runt: fiquidem Livius I. Anno ur- hfiilits. bis P. Sulpitio Severione, Tublius The people of Sempronius the Confuli, says The Roman war is made and he joined the war of the new prophecy, ad to find their cities round about light, enter forty-one towns. days, they took everything by assault, most of them destroyed and destroyed, no and the men of the horses near to slaughter even destroyed. . To whom Diodorus writes: Jlter Confulum P. Sempronius with an army into whose territory he proceeded OLD NO progressed, towns within days shunned; among whom there is no doubt Algidus there was one, of which he had already become mouse Once upon a time, this was the case of some towns in the ipfo cjuod year founded by the City z8), uf- which at manis bella geflit; of which see Vmm Dioiiyf l. io. Diod. l. If- I and of this town, especially from Strabo,
where the Via Lattna delineates, to use a little We have written before often: Begins, he says, the Appian way fimftram from ca nearWomzmdcfleilen, and the fupcr crosses the Tufculan mountain, between the town of Tufculum and Albanus he descends the mountain to the town of Algid dulum Cr Pi&as dcverforia Tropico tefte, ftadiis oma diftat, id fex- ten thousand fathoms; ftadiis iingu to them with a mile and a half in the clay calculated Strabo therefore tefte, Vta Latiita not proculowddefle&ensad to the right, to-day, straight to the town, (podAi makes a decimumvocatut, todaySo; gbetto, the verfus of Vtllam Ciceronis, today Grotta Ferrata, is directed, hence through The Alban Valley, where; between Mount Al banum Tufculanus interposed, refta tends to rPxoboraria, today the difta laMo- lara: and beyond this Aegis fuiffe condi- then, according to the registration of the Authors, near the public square, ordinarily t Ofteria, it must undoubtedly be held, and ru- I met a huge beast there they offer; a fuiffeaute on the mountain, so it must be understood that Tufculanus the field, indeed the whole Vallis Albana, ixtiScVa Latina will climb on the mountain, cuma the plains of the Omani fields whether the Albans should be perpetually enflamed; and this patfto was made in the mountain it may be called fuiffe, etfi not ipfo Algidi montis verticc, fed fubipfomontisju- go: in the same way as Alba Longa fub It was founded on the yoke of Mount Alban. But let us now determine the fate of Mount Algis. You should know that Mount Alban is beyond Cam- and another yoke of Hannibal, in the country V U M L A T I U M. the yoke of the Tufculani mountain, to lift up, between which two intermediate yokes is cqlloca- tus, whose town was once a suburb it was said, impure fuiffe, ruin; in- They demonstrated near Molara. And so this yoke and then denying another yoke from the country of the mountain, today I taught Priora, extol- C U mon. Tra Jioc the town was nicknamed Merwbis fuiffe, we will bring; for from this place through tr'U' another valley, between the Tufculan mountains, %occam Prioram, verfus Monafteriwn Camaldulcnfeum defcenfus daturinlon- go and wide open the plain of Latium, than the Waters tcnuiffe, Hiftorici nar- ranting indeed, the neighboring fylva in both directions day of lafcha aglw, corrupt Algido Aisidu it is said; therefore their opinion pro- Volatcrramts, they want, Algidum effe op- pap" that pus that today Pjcca di Pa- it is called pa, and thus the Alban mountain they confound it with the ipfo Aegis, which which he smelled, from the pa- protected, when the mountain Algis beyond the Cam- pum Hannibalts, from the region of Caftelli, which Priora is commonly called, conftitu- then we will "fuiffe, fufra" oftenderus. Eph Horatius into this Joke. Stiff as a holly with two feathers Nigntferacifrondis in Algido. The commentator says, Algidus is a mountain Tufculano and return indeed: indeed they were Algidus mountain so Tufculano jugocol- and a book connected, as even Strabo's ipii And Pitnius Tufailanus becomes a habit, no a small and frigid valley of snow, one from high ro disjun&us; whence JEqui perpetuity Now they were fighting the war with the Tufculans I saw, now you see. And at this point then the fuiffe from Hanbali recon- ftat, of whom Livy I. i(jficait: Han- Nibal attacked the air of Fresella because of the concrete bridges across the Frufinate, f and Ferentinate, t? Anagninum he bounded the land into the Labican, inde Algi- do nor received mceni- busjnfra Tufculum dextrorfum Gabios And so the region of the Hemics was petitioned for Yenit Hannibal them in the house locx rush ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI he came to Lythicimi, (which town co- dem lpco, which today Vdmontom, fitum fuiffe, I want to eat a little hence Somewhere, if you want a neighbor Tttjiulwn pe- tijt, but Tufcuh was not received by the soldiers snow, through a valley filled with snow, between %occam Vriora isrTufculan mountain, He asked Gahios to the right. Gawrum ve- to refend the city to him, who today It is called a column, we will eat it when we want. There was therefore a two-fold road, that from Algido Here the plains of the Latins were infested: the moon on the right, which; Lahicum, another a ftniftris, which Gahios, that is, the Column He was tending through the mountain of Vortium, inter-
among the mountains, which today Montenl Compatrum, montemS. They are called woodpeckers. And so Algis fi- then we have determined again, of which There was such a dispute between the moderns and verta, of which see a portrait Jamad other field Tufcula- let us proceed. C A P T V Lucius Lucullus, a Tufculan. thousands Lucullus ploriofce txbcaitio- nci On the other side of the river was a ma- Part I Ferentine and each other, generally speaking Marino, Lucullus poffefho- not fuiife, but before the power the riches of the poor man and the country We are describing the magnificence of which one I must say first, that he was lucky it is The family of the Luculli was affected by the Licinios it was the first time, in which LicinimLuculm He was most famous for the celebrity of his name. Here in the times of Scypnus JEmilianus, it was a little before the beginning of the Punic war Conful with Aulus Pofibumius Alhinus: those who were with a fever, nor If they let go of grace, a Tri- of the good people, who were free for friends they could not obtain the they threw him into prison. Lucullus then of Miffus into Hyppania, to whom Claudius Marccllus fucceflit, when all Ccltihe- rie peoples would seem placaffe, Vacceos, Cantahros, and elsewhere in the middle of Hifpania He moved the nations, so Livius l. Hu- therefore the right of the children, five grandchildren, Lucius There were Marcus Luculli, of whom Lucius Lucullus carried away, and rich, the office of Qux- It was the most abundant flower. for in Afia he conquered the of Mitbridates, he shaved Prxtor Afiicam juftiffime re- hit against Mitbridatem miffus col- I bequeath Cottam Cbalcedone obfeflum li- Mithrida- Lucullus afflicted the forces of Mitbridates with iron and hunger. and I was with him in the Kingdom, clean; then rurfus with Tigranes Ar- same Regc fubveniente, the same He enjoyed great happiness. So much so and having gained so many visions, so many nations Enriched by the fpolies of their kingdoms, so many fervent and powerful servants, %omam reverfus all fe otio delicifif tra- gave, where the magnificence of the towns, con- the fumptu of the living, the number of the vefti Sc beauty, pratcrea xdium fa- bricarque mira ftrudlura, manci- Sc abundance, all Lucullus at any tempeftate he fuperavit: fed little by little, when not, where the infiltrating de-. this shore would rcquteiceret, repenret, aMit. captured, began to sink, protection his brother M. Lucullus permiffa And the magnificence of this Lucius Lucullus and Lucius Tufculano tgrovclmaximeenituit; to use to this its still vehement dc- show First, indeed, the mountain The Vortius, bought by the Vortii, fuajfecit AmpU one of the cattle, which they call Varco It seems like a continuous plot, the corridors, the dining-rooms, the periftylii so much full of everything, so that no one does not wonder stunned by the idea. or ipfa wall in. ruins fvjfcfa. OLD NEW LAFLUM, iijuit Ats-Jus dnte wurale saddlebag Jxrrmce mfirucimtt ijzp veJ,
With Baht Bnlneum Bahtcioa Saunati Hccott Jmc ttifl au MtO: htmitic oJjtcr uUa jrorbts aajttithi.
jier jutts tttltium Jisyrttt jicrrta T Amhlicntmfcrtticc tttftnictum tzt tUtnr crTt-cccic-Vocfimz JcfcnJcxihu rcrfa Xemm, mHc drcOrr t, vJkji, rita nrc ntpa nfm kmmum uJtm, Mn jf a a-iuU cctSmur, W Urafc, cmarcrtam, nic jarrcmrre tifmt fiait-. Burghe- ianutn Zoor. ro the least let the abundance of ruins be looked upon; which: Joine lateque fub Burgbefiano Zootro- open pbw; but this LuculliYdlam fuiffe They are slow information. Who else is a little fu- prae, a huge delubrum fuiffe parietina demonstrant, in the ipfo corner, whereof of the old Ydk Burghefiorum, in montcm Tortium is stretched, intermediate, quocf I Sotue templwn, how much from the words of Dionysius we may conjecture, Fuiffe Exiftimo: Another town was there in Tempiurh places where only the hortm of the Indo-Yifis it is to use some of the inscriptions Iapides found there this spring twice: L. LUCUL LUC. F. Tertiavilla K amplifimj ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI
llli hadU fentes fjrauejue Aamaumtur, abm. TfcuuL JelicuJjil exislelatr Cryptse Lucullus It was very large and magnificent co in the place where today Vttta %oclorum And he lives in Varefios, from which, however, he on the day nothing is fuperfteseft, let him be fubterrane Cryptx is still intact which I found diofe dimenfus, find such: Fabrica it was square, geometrical fathoms corum, surrounded by a wall, within which you will hit another quarter of the walkers, where- rum length almost palmorurrr, lu- he admitted the stranger through the bow, of slaves, as indeed I love them dwelling within the middle of this bricks rows of rooms con- they are made of cameramen, of which each cubits in length dine, in breadth ihabet, and from one to the other there is no profanity of fefentra, which; or mini mum what light to admit fet, it is found, whence she was poor wineries fuiffe conijcio, cuiaappofitum and the huge palace but they still add to the rubbish partly covered with vines, partly with shrubs pata fint everything From this device to ferc VETllS NEW LATIUM.
Pifcina Lucullus about feet, obviumlocuminfor- the excavated mam of the amphitheater, tants about the size of Tantbeon s6 geometrical feet in diameter tro, find, from whose wide margin nis environment is given by means of defcenfus, and there is no doubt that it was pifcina, or to use grcce they call y. ovn; to whom it is surprising badly damaged (m&Luculwn he wrote PBniiA; Pifcina in Cumanus the field from him Ftru&a clearly teaches: today pmermu- rosnihilvideas, hacpifcina in the gardens overturned; but the environment of the margin pmo, lauroque. circumcirca confpi- of which, some still magnificent then he shows not long ago I was Tufadwn to the road, which 1(omam tends to, another fanumoccurrrito tundum, made of rare four stones size exftrucl; cook It was made for God, at I can't find the authors. From here to two the miles tending towards the another huge accumulation of counterintruders than Anticaglia di Centro today, or la Grotta di Lucullo they commonly say, Grottad? in the Vaftity of the former in the Varefian vineyard gte nonimpar: fubterraneaambulacrain- nations, and in length and breadth has praamplas, so many, utla- Byrinthus is seen. Unumfitloco of all, that I should measure rum height, length Soo pal- Lucui! aM: I have found a character, in the middle of which JrZ let the rain be collected there, I will not go away K a arrirmare. Tbefauro- rum fcru- tatters Crypts winemaker Athanasius to affirm In some places the path they are so wretched and straitened, that they do not snow that they may be penetrated by crawling: if they have been jiales fuiffe afTeramus, through which the water inside the factory be beaten They say, still to be found in the non- in no places tametfi access very difficult rooms, built with moldy work, which we, however, could not find. Some of tliefaurs fcrutators fr- on foot the living are to enter, fed hiding there luck? finally inveftiganda: fpe de- lufi, instead of stealing almost mentally ill five fears five with the fault of the air and through the darkness of darkness you will return to the house in bed, it will not take long in extreme poverty when he died they changed you I fane these waftif- other non-fuiffeconjicio vaults nifi cellas feu cryptds Ymarias, prasfer- tim with no place of fefentra, per what light he desires to be admitted, to be found; Cellce Vinarim today in the same way They offer a lot of fat. For when Lu- culhts a huge amount every year from TufcuLt- he would not gather a quantity of wine in the field, that which we describe The multitude of crypts, in which safe con- god they could, it was a profanity Hifce Crypts aliafabricscontignation he was a fuperimpofita, of which a great part he is still fuperftes, ambulacris, who they would repound the lower ones, to the top prxample intructa, different leaves, let it pass through the doors and windows they would admit the light, she damned spirits would burn. are
rooms at the end of any left, which: which have had a ufum, among the Authors con- rnpsi trovertir Fabric side: south fuilfe it seems, you are eating with a moldy work strangely decorated, whereupon the air di caufa, then %omam and ejuf plains far and wide open for contemplation grace to receive at the right time they floated It is strange, however, that many to be found against all Architects nica: the rules of the art of construction amccnijfi- mm. K I R C H E R I to what purpose did they hire we have no plan to finish it. But from now on the Tiburtines are more confused. ancient tatibu-s About a thousand miles further from this point on rit, which is commonly called Borghetto, by many Borgbcc- Caflellacao is also called, once Addeci- aj dcci- mum, a quick stone, called, "d1"1'op" with which the oma is found in ViaLatind; Kodie the whole with the leaves still intact he lies carried away. The Tiifculans deliver, id the prodigious propulsive ants a multitude of rums, with which they did not want, at last they abandoned him, the inhabitants partly Marinus, partly Tu- fculuni fe contributors. Under this village, about four hundred on foot, another Lucullan device met rit, innumerable subterranean crypts im- plexus, the shape of the rest cannot be told any more squeamish; nay, be a little more precise destroy all things, destroy all this (Slum from Marino to Monte Portium each, five thousandths of a mile so many factories, so many villages with delight, so many ardors intrucriim cowardly, as once the village of the a piece of rum fed vaftiflima: image of the city show the fire to the dicipoflxt: for they lived or you may advance on your feet, where not new and old manufacturers you will find the ruins of the dear. But all things Hax Luculli exftru&a fuifTe L. tmm Tt' r r gntpccntij- he demonstrates with arguments; and we, when then cast off the water, di- the end of the light the kneeling vaults are nothing else, but of filling wine barrels, with which abun- gave, suitable aptaqjreccptacula cen- femus Peridromides, indeed, she was a fire walk porch, of servants, many thousands of whom are uncultured of the villages, and nourished other fervors, ha- it is verifiably true But exhorum ruins magnificentif- those women, which today I wonder we will fpe&amus, at the time of your desire leave no one in doubt must see the above picture of the ruin. CHAPTER OLD tc NEW LATIN.
vexakS ltjctjxla! "m between Marrnum- fe cuhmt in ohvue C A P u T VI T)e Tufculo of later times, that Frafca- it is called the bodie. Vfculum prifcum in Tufcu- Wfk montls )US seasoned, SWm fepe deftru&um, acciden- "t the opportunity of the place re- We have said that it is false, and we have not yet Jta" omani Imfem happily at home Ro- nio, Tufcula? II, however, in the fua of the old faith roams nQn perltiterlmt foj p0tenrJa you were a man of confidence do not want to start a war runt: among whom you were famous, that the fiduciary forces of Fridenci Barbaroff, %omank brought %iino Duke, and the multitude of the Komans he cites, as the Tufculans' vidoria to him; how to Cannae from Hannibal of Komanorum ercitus penc to be destroyed once he had brought it back, not unlike tuna; fuifle, (Blondm, and others of Htjloric they were by which unfortunate outcome of the war Ro- with a weak hand, he was a little away, without red- integrating the damage inflicted on them they cast off my fpem as they grew meanwhile, with strength and power, feptennium K Tufailum once again vajiatur a Romans poor Fraccati dcfcyiption Fraccati Delights O1 vile A T H A N A S I may the downfall brought upon them by the elaph, you remember the rites of war, and the injuries inflicted little by little compared to the vast army, Tufculana with such impetuousness and violence they rage, with all their might equals, with every one of them obfefli, which they had fled, they had not, and to the last spirit of stubborn resistance lest the contenders should die fighting to redeem the ignominious life with fervour
they preferred Wherefore to the internment of blessed are the citizens, the city is rich, and the wealth is full of abundance captured by %omaius, ex- it was piled and leveled: who indeed from the Tufculans they were fuperftites, ad the first rfeinvafion Cryptisfefe they hid, or in the neighboring fields, they took refuge in the flight. the first country, with the place where he lived rent, they would not have a refund, others Roc- 'For the former, Molari some, others fine Mount Compatri with new colonies as it were they gave the origin of confections. Most people which, however, a little below the city I was about five hundred years old while against the stormy air then, you take the leaves of the trees, which commonly called Frafcas, they would extort, --here his name to this day manfit, Frafcati: and so much fucceflu the growth of time fumes, as among the fete Qomana Ecclefia Epifco- the copate was counted as one; and still so many palaces what great splendor and magnificence bit, so that no one in Italy loves the famous it may be seen, vtxt%omanaurbis paradise and so deservedly whether this Lucullan magnificence to doubt whether he had deceived her may Strabo once the same, to use ho- day, towns, palaces, fountains, waters which was endowed with surprising abundance fuiife, it matters, today not with sources tan- then abounds, fed with whole waters rivers villas palaces, three with the first from ex- they are filled with wonder Villa Aldobrandina, Mmitis Traconi, Games; with which five manufacturers I K I II C H E R I height, and magnificence, five fta- the excellence of your piety, five fine hydraulic organo- rum artihciofam ftru&uram, fontium- what a pleasant plaything you are, nilfane to rarity excellence I'm going to go to the exit. They are but today twelve vilfs from practice may the families of the city of Oman in this Tu- fcukno diftri&u founded: together with pala- yours, the first of which Aldobrandina, Queen of the Villars, from Te- tro Aldobrandinus, Cardinal, Clement FIIFPont Max. Nephew founded, one with the palace to all Architectonics the laws cxftruclo; how many sources, fed the rivers flow to this end through the mountain from the removed fcaturigines dedu&a, ad do not provoke the destruction of the rufticians izVills tufculi VillaAl- dobranai gauntlet fed hydraulic organs, and other water sports are wonderful affect the mode of fpe&ators. The other is the Villa Burgbefia, generally speaking Mondragone di&a, from Taulo V Pont. Max. founded in Burgbefio, united, five ftatuarum, five pi&urarum exquifitif- you fpe&es a quantity of breasts, adorned; gardens, meadows, surrounded by trees, nothing de- He could have done better. The third is LudoYifid, which in Autu- He did not take the annual holiday He founded Gregory XV. Reli- what are the different Pontifical villages; familiar they are carried out by princes. A tavern, immediately fubj acet Montis The palace of the dragon, from the Cardinal of this the name once founded Falconcria, between Tufculum Mon- a dragon in the middle, impaled on a slope, a the noble family of the Falconers today to be trusted Boncompagna, by Gregorio XIII given today by Duke Sorano Boncompaignx at the foot of the mountain He is born to Ytam. Strojana, the middle between Boncompa- I know that LudoYifia is exifit, before I lead him Strozj, indeed, is already facing Duke Ceritanus. Daughter of Montaltina, by Sixtus V Pont, Max. Villa Bur- ghefia VillaLu- doviiia A shop; falcon things Boncom countries Strozzia Montald nzVilla.
Blank inserted to ensure correct page position HHH rock Vareiiana old no Max: grounded, Today, Prince Familue SaVcllorum fubeft. Vtlla occio-Varefiana, by the Cardinal (occio Varefiis, partition rights jncre- with the weak penfilis of the gardens It was cultivated. Quarurn fchemata in Look at the attached tables. This fylva is made by which: the way to Crjptam Ferrata panditperamxnam, of elms on both sides
a delightful bra, and all to Canobium w Fcm-Bafilii, who Ecclefia: Gracanica: rites are produced; once an excellent Manuscript Greek rum was adorned with fupelle and ile tur, which today was brought in with great expediency are in the Library: Barberina; foundation then was this Canobium Ecclefia a. S. Deiparas in honor of Nilus the Abbot, I V u M LATIUM qiu-c the times of your desire as well as exceptional ennobled by miracles, both on every side
from all sides the confluence of immigrants reigning in a great fame grew up Hortum Comobio jun&um bet fane peramamum, sycamore laurel with all the great things; who- very long ago Vtlla Ctceronis this in place of faith so today the Hor- very abundant water: Crabra feu Tepuk irrigated by fountains, such an abundance, or not own farm, fed StTufcu- the tiVity of this by the tenants if they wanted a participle; it's that water, which; to Refidentiaj Socie- state JE S U home, in the great Civita- with a profit, two rams it is poured out with a mighty capacity. with the epigraph of this source: CLEMENTS VIII. WATER ]ULlA. EXTENDING Paul V. BRIDGE MAX. THE TEPUL SIXTY munificence Disbursed BE. to the public Fistulatim conducted of citizenship. They cough. utility source LARGE. It spreads citizens the Tusculans Beneficiaries. A witness poster They indicate CIQ Ninety In general I can tell you how many times ancient monuments this place fca- teat, to vej fub ipfo garden various ambu- lacra, nefcio qua: other ve let them be revealed. If you're tired, bees, Zoophora, coronides, abacus, co- lumnas, before the divergent Pontiffs from here the oman was blown: there were, bring- I'll open it, I'll make a new fan of the book FomM- exponenda; pusforet. Canobium fofsa firijw. surrounded by nonexiguifortalitie fpe- he presents the night; from that valley difficult part, which; water Tepula fire Crabra is interrupted, the approach of the prxbet pro- fusinaceeffum, by Lullius II Pont: Max: Into this wall of fortifications he returned. Today, the valley of the geniuses of various ar- tium, Chartaceis, Ferrariifque ergafte- riis, magnoCamera; Apophtholic: fruclu, to the water of the Crab. Hence from the bottom of the valley to the summit of the mountain, The beginning of the field of the sea, we are led, who In the field of Tufculano, you are magnificent The destruction of the villages seems to continue everywhere among the vines, so much rubbish the accumulation is met. C A P U T ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI C A P U T VII Marianum #Ferentitium. TvlarinUe fcriph I used to use a thorn in the past, and today twelve thousand fuum %omk difltum, to ra- tell the Albans of the mountain then it is: once upon a time Ferentine was rentini, which is in a wooded valley outside the gate that opens into the Alban road they meet those who fall: they are made, and there in borto Cohnenfmm fuam origin they are fic called, cpe, use carte- rx Latius aqua: fontefqueita&hsdivi- us from the fuperftion of the priests they deserve knowledge. llnde Lttcus Fe- rentina was said to be the forest, Mari- whether, between Lacumqm Aibanum me- a long time; For to use Pompeius Fejius con- ftat, the Latin people at the head of Ferentma, which is at the head of Monte Albano, a confilia to begin, and the common government they supported him Eratenima The Latin peoples can use white excision Feremi- Dwnyfius says, Ferentinwn a place where did the court j him against deciding the Omani rum yeluti in a certain synod, common the council was supported; From here to it is read in Livy, In Ferentinus decree efl: In Indtclo adeientinum the public council of the nation is decimated: Coa- Tumus tlo Fercntini fell to the council. tour Herdonius mm fferdonium Aricinum, with confi- no the lia of Tarquim would detre&aret, occifum ad the fountain of Fcrentimtm, the living earth pultum fuiffe, report Livius ScDio- nyfiim Tarquinius Proudus, says he Livius, the chief ruler of the Latins He agreed, as well as the pilgrims He will be safer among the hundreds, nor will he move db with their chiefs, fied affinities he also joined; Tarquinius is so great orbontM mter Latinorumrom was, when m a certain day, as WLucum Feren- thine coiMniant, indicates, ejfie, quexagere
He wants to talk about common matters often at first light: Ipfie Tarquinius day qutdemfefaaYtt, fiedpaulb before The sun would kill, it is gentle. Lots of stuff in there all day they were imprisoned by the 1'arii Turnus Herdonius ab Arithferociter in the abfiente of Tarquinius crat Iyineus How obreminjecl, eTumoCaten, A great council of the Latins was assembled with twnitltu advocated; there was such a terrible in- Turn t Ytdia arose, gladtts in the middle of the feast, as indicla cattfia Turnus noo lethigenere de- he threw water at his head; Ferentina; , a fence fnperne jetla, merge return or as Dionyphius speaks: Then The turn does not permififttm more defie di- tv fuvfy, m rlw ylw. iii They throw a kind of vortex, Yfvum- that the earth is broken Plutarch everywhere it refers, %omulum, to that of relatives Tatitus sent the ambassadors to Lawrence, and these to Tatius they will kill them, plunder the cities. rtW with them the Luftraffej to the porta Ferentina, Sm (piiiUm forfan better, to mend, that the writer met, grace, Sm Qs%itl. vK 7nyris. to Florence becoming And this, which; Yerentino among the authors we find that they are busy. Eft another Fcrentinum of the Hernicus, from time to time But in no other place a town of this kind was fuiffe to him, where he longed for Martnum, the mighty Colon- nenfittm 'Primitive town founded by Marinus. J r r t c ttymont? was, and the spring of water was placed in the valley we beat, between Lacum Albanum, from which by fub- the origin of terrestrial paths hit, middle, fat and outer demonsftrant. Some people call it Marinus fuiffe autumant, BC. Marius, someone I had a village, I gave Mariana, 'Blonde brings, and another neighbor a L. Murena founded with poffeffione portions Whatever happens, cheap fabrics lifque fplendidumfuiflelocum, femi- the ruins of antiquity are fattened from the ruins of which the town was founded today in the fashion of manufacturers ffnfita Toefi Jivimias, Scmnium hucufjuc. iiortolihts crcJita, rctanJem, trrohatur. in Dcas umftus Xjw aamiraiilis m Jbtriaexfi. Cohmcnfhrinct jer Various 'FUmrics, and OrJines amicimc crutus, then moximc oj Owmos hcncmes elcvonJos lutm-as patrecmtum tetertw velutL monmncnto tcfiatur
V-ETliS to O V U M L A t I li M.
fcbrics of temples and palaces fu- j they exhibit wool in AgroTufcukno; Pau- u. mmn perbit, to whose devices it is more convenient to expedite, much profit Aquite Ferenc tiiitt fountain of peppered stone the most abundant GEterum Marinenfs Ager today ad- here with the charm, as well as the abundance of things tate yields to no other in Latw. Plains the best grain fields, the hills the vines covered with noble wine all kinds of pra: ftant. Ettametfi oj- the of the citizen shall not triumph; the size of the flight, as I said, the elegance of the cries, the greenness of the He yields to none of the cities of the Lalines in splendor; famtli. t Columnenjiumhodie paret, the Mannenfu field is empty of innumerable anti- we will have to return to the rest of the fleet in the neighborhood: fylvx, where Lake Albanus reflects, with fumity in the clay of the monument your rubbish, which; I have nothing else to say nm, than Ferontie Fanum, dequoto- ties, when de Ferentno Latinorum con- The authors mention they do not and everything I did, by which Titiffe Dtonyfus defcribit, they agree. PrcEtere a fpe&antur still in cam- pis paiiim vaftiflima below the earth ru- dera, which; ambulacra, periftylia they report And they shall be brought to the table the same profus form, as Lucul- dumrufticiZ these past years they would not know what to do they fubolferented the exiftere, by which dete&o invalid camera fubftrucrions, pmer other not a little ftatuarurrl abundance, and among them also the noble lud the most beautiful monument found that the ceremonies, by Chari- then the chorus in the Apotheophus of Homer fervatas, how to create r Juculentiffi- me, from the excellent Graxia; archeology
lao, as the record teaches, was made of marble he presents the truth: that the fame is flying, soon as for the art of art; fpecimen with every exception majus Don't be afraid to contemplate xat ftatuaryof %oma acivit; fed&r antiquities: experts, or to monu- mcntum myfteriis confertiilimus al- he read whence I shall begin as soon as possible, by Uluftr: Rev. Abbot Marcel Lo Severolo, give me the same plenty of lights it was What how in a timely manner together with the same interpretation any noble monuments omififfe would be seen I was; and since Seerolus was the most learned a complete diatribe of the same He had stopped to drink, but I did not know that here, by the way I spilled the beans; take care of the rest; induftri. I leave it to be cultivated by Severoli. Stones found in the Field of the Sea, zApotheofin Homer expressing InteryretatiOi JEmini must seem strange, Ho- just because of divine propein the power and efficiency of genius in its use with the poets things, as the rubbish of the human mind condition, elevated, imt meruiffe, and you do not write taxed by traditional greed, fed marble they wanted to be restrained from the beginning, to use inprxfentimarmore, that before eirciter lutra in the field of Marini town, mm I do not know what the robbers were digging, &um was, whose Nemus, with the first some of Homer's Mga Homer spring up, country, books obitu pramife- Homcri we laugh In fact, Herodotus, flu- tarchus, Zees, Mtanus, Dto- nyjttu, and innumerable depths, I do not know what Qeiov, divine, I say, with fum- with my own praises of the gods and goddesses, hymn and the foolish mortal race exalted they recognized their identity. Whence utieft at fjajjjj. Volaterranus, Galaton pitftor Homerunt mere he is painted as a man, and next to him; J i. r poets uriJ Indeed, he wanted to point out eloquently, those who; at Yes. Athanasius Kircher at Homer's ceu vilia they were drinking, when poets wanted him turning le&a into a proper ufo, like precious souvenirs gulos and all the fuos fetus adornaife. by Philopa- Thilopator Ttolontceus the great Home- tore Ho-u r cjt as c[ ceuNumini templum mere ttm. l ri n And the citizens would fight among themselves. so JEltanus de)ariahfloria. luftmanits The emperor knows the father of all power threatens Nor this by fmcration; that for the fountain of rivers and the curfew was from the ocean they smoke, as it were, from the most fertile land I call Homer to all eloquence and the beginning of the rise of the poets that he gave, that no one in great fub- limit, no one in small property he made a fool of himself. The same smooth and smooth, as delightful and gravitas, so tenuita- fearsome, not poetical so fcd Rhetoric most eminent; so Quntilianus and therefore most of them also cx Orthodox Writers you will bring them, Divinampro- sight even in the blind of Gentiles hot some dcftinaffe men with a limit beyond that of the human race raised strong, who follow the light of nature tx infrrufti the higher mysteries of the Divinity cover of various stories outlined to the world, every 7roAu6a? they would explain in vain. But I have already given some brief passages from Hcrodotus let us bring his life. Ofinimts I am not ignorant of various things about him laricJtor- orm fenur]"e ex da-mone born, he will add to the number of heroes; others, such as Antilochus, the son of Mercury brought forth, from the inborn genius of Mercury an inimitable vein, with which the fua will be written. Herodotus, however, relates the following about him. Na- The Trojan War has been raging for years from the adultery of the mother eidts virgi- "et0t' nis Cumcte, qua; she had been married to someone Homer's Qeonactus. Because of shame, the colony of Smyrna, then led by Cunittk ce Thefleus had been stripped, would be sent, at He gave birth to a rum, not a box, fed the seer; and he called at the beginning from the river Meleflgenes. Then the boy appeared at his best dolc, by Thannius Grammatko doftifli- mo, who at that time was acting as a priest in Smyrna, together with his mother he was brought up, and literate learned Then a certain merchant
Minds by name, a young man for letters and loving virtue, otherwise covetous to see regions through different parts of the world Ptngrima- he led When he returned from Tyrrhema,
and at Ithaca with a disease of the eyes Affectionate, hospitable, and caring for my family, while he is returning; who wants to recover He went to Colopbon, ibidern rurfus in the same incident it is done Therefore I returned to Smyrna immediately. tradit: fed there, ciim viclus difhcultatc nomtn ti to work, he came to Cumas gathered, where The Cumans call them Homers. From there Finally, he returned to Chios FC, where the game he opened it, and it is full of oil and rest, He composed the Iliad, and everything else by whom He will receive the benefit, infuopoema he mentioned. For when such a such is the case with many calamities in orbit Stfummareruminopiavi- it's a wind. At Cumae, the captor of Caumitus Glaucus, at the end of the leader in the folly of Homm. the frog was graciously accepted, and laughed at was, at Thoctdem by Theflorida Gram maticus, and Glaucus villico, with whom it is said to compofuiffe Ildates minor; which then with Cumas from Chios, Cu- mts he would sail to Athens, and fcffufque in rest on the shore, coming out of town push several, to use God enlivened they ran to which when also pifca some of the same divers fent They propounded such a riddle to him: A"or' A&ifu, Fryfrem 'ztefjSpiQzgOfjLsSa. , that which we took, JJSro reliauimtis, auodnonceptmits, we brought, tpfi- which they understood about the pedicles, which on the shore they had left the cleaning Ho- and therefore the mere matter not understood, in a few It has been extinct for a few days, not really Epitome fbium Ho Lis&con troverfia of the Fatherland Homcri OLD NO from pain of heart, as some think. fed from the labor of the journey with one health contracted buried there with this epigram: EV5a kh mtyaihh xj' ycua xahvet This mound was founded by Vates Dhinus Homer. He sang to the hero who had done well when. When, therefore, he departed from Rome The opinion of the ancient Scriptures becomes, I this, which I brought forth from Herodotus, more than I think most verifiable; who, indeed, from incestuous intercourse as Plutarchbusah, or from Daynon ge- they find a basis, that is not so much about the truth by natural generation, than by heaven given the genius of Homer, because, owing to his admirable gifts of genius, I do not call God a certain parent they could argue that he was weak; etc. so much controversy about his country. she was born a virgin. do you believe Herodotus, Smyr- it will be connected; HPindaro, then Cbius. then Smyrna; (iSimonides, CbiuS; fi Aiiti- macbo Nicardio, Colophonius; fi Ari- fiotcli, linens; fi Epboro, Cuimeus to others, Salaminius; some ArgiVus fi Ariftarcbo, be fine to others or Trojans, or Lydians, or Itbacenfs, or Cyprius, or Gnoftim, or Mycenite, or JEgfjjfms, or Tbcjfalus, or Italian, or Lucanus, or PKomanus; or 'pfo- a long time When it is true, certainly it was not surprising that Greeks and Greeks then AftaVrbes, this ambitious glory: so anxious about such a great man compete with the municipality seven ta- VUM LATJUM S} Seven Vrbes contend from the root Homer Cuma, Smyrna, Chios, Colophon, Pylos, Argos, Athens: . Thus, in the midst of the prin- the stock of Homer, or that of Atalanta, or Hippodamia was filled with excellent citizens nations regions, of any kind The most sought-after suitors are competitively sought after. As therefore it is not surprising, from so much Wome- ri exiftimation, by some not in terreftn the country in a human way then, fcd fell from the numinuccetu delapfumefle earth, creditumfuiffe, whence such an Orfca was spoken of him (iffa(pwnfjLcl: He B-soc im (ffivy; , qjj ahawa. O-iSiQ-Qb). Qiocc-ivotj. If Homer God cft Venerator of the mortal forest If it were not for Detts, God would be thought to be a fool yes Hence the ancients erected a temple to him ban they were doing tricks, and nor was it a fabrication, as it was often they were carrying, and how bright this was the first epigraph in the Field of the Town rini, fub Jurifdj&ione House of Worship
He teaches me the beginning of the marble, which; AVo tiitttM Homcri how fcitiflime exhi- bet the middle and the lowest In the first place dine you see the love of Parnajfo the mountain infi- tooth, fceptro unacumaquik adfi- deeju mumapatuquemququefib, tem, ootenn. m. S v! yifom. of his municipate, whom every fib. tZiaHo. arrogant, conflicted, Cicero, .Plutar- "ri. cbus, qucepul- chre farie Antipater dimetro this de- will write: E'a ieAfimStn TroAa; Sid hiljw power and majesty fuajw demonstrate the extent: it con- I turned to face the sickly ones
apotheofi Homeric fuppliantes, au- will be revised; verb figure: five Mufarum, five fub in the form of Charity The cities where: him in the number of God L i. they are wiagi The second erdo im&' ATHANAS did they want to smoke rum? of which ma rupi Tarnafi lyra infignita: infi- smiling, serious left hand teri inferta, the other veftimenti fyrma holding, boldly addresses love, what would he say: what do you think of ma- I know Homer, and yours, and the divine Palkdis life in the funnel? tune with that honor for whom we pray, worthy of xfti- male On the other hand, with deep reverence tix veneration a&u, as if in ter- ram prdcidua fubmiffo face, extended that in the deep hand, to clasp the same it seems The third cliff Parnaffex trusting presents I0V1 brands, and merits Home- ri expounds, with which talent and skill divine poets artfully enlighten the world life Fourthly, I turn my face to him, with two fingers folded, with the other hand volume tcnens, a loVe benefit, ve- extort the mud by way of oaths to really want, he secretly hints. Fifth Sixth to support any action there She, who is tired, holds a book in her hand to, the Divine in Homer he shows the day in which he honors the divine should be allowed he hinted three times. And this is true and legitimate ma Gratiarum at IoVeM de Homer receiving the number of the Gods, folding Grexca, on the other hand, fell on his feet begin with an epigraph, nothing else signifies ftatuary, iive of this apotheotic fche- matis, inventor, five fculptors no- men country, according to the words of Gracchus teach: APXEAAOS AflOAAONIOY nPIHNhYS EnoiHsE. ift: Archelaus of Apollonius He did it. In a fruitful order of equal figures they are contained, by which; ipfa: merit Ho- they express with mere gestures; the first who the poet insinuates that he is tired, ftra, ple&rum right as in a&u fo- He holds a swimming suit; ball in he holds a table, which the fertile figure ma- does it indicate pretend nothing else it seems that the merits of Homer are of no account I KIRCHERI Poefi fua the worker of the world, and everything which: they are in him, by a certain divine inspiration The third figure of the ru- pi leaning on both hands, as if ex- which was snatched away, astonished the Divines Homer's labors seem to be contemplated. Now follow the Fourth Fifth Figu- ra antro unexiftentes, of which the former Lyra Orphicamlaiva shows, dex- traple&ro intru&a; affecla veibllia dts shows Volume; in which love Of the gods and of all, they are indicated, presented But this cave is either of Kympharum, or He notes the habitation of the mice, of which Ampliflime LcMi, cxterofque My- see the thologists in action. It was for the caves of the early Nymphs and Mufars to inhabit Finally, in the sixth place, the thigh Flamini's abacus is exhibited; holding scroll in right hand, finiftra pe&us see the definite tendency tur, and presents a ready faith to the debtor the bed of Homer's works in Egypt the exhibition of performing the ritual; which: all two: light the torches; with the Tauticians You will be a beautiful figure, the proper form of the Egyptians in the works they note to God; is the cross drawn, which: aris nor to all Egyptian Numis- s""yp" virtues properties in Hierwljpmcis noftm Opertbus, Oedipus, Obclifco Tam- pbtlio, Alexandrinus Minervali, and and not in Lingiu Copu rejittuU the- fauro, together with the highest things, . which by her Hieroglyph: bant, by interpretation, how abundantly we exhumed, to which: we are afraid.
Finally the third order shows Jf' Vts executive Apotheofeos- fenten- ww. what is the most bellicose expression here sends And first of all, a little girl I will close the curtain of the Temple of the Gods you see, how often the human ingenuity unaccefa Homer virtues OLD NO iaaccefla, a foloHowmpenetratain- nuuntur, juxtaillud: far away cnl the profane. These are done beautifully four men adorned with decent clothes gins fub aiftuftupor and wonder are denoted: each with a finger on the lips impoiito filientus the manner of Harpocrates of old, They say that the Egyptians ex- First of all, they loved near that O I saw: Qnique presses the Voice, dtgitocpuefilen- teasing And so the virgins of the Egyptians, who; iroCpictv reports, moving his finger to his lips The author of this monument expounds, as would not flee, nor from the country and the birth of Ho- yea, nor of gus among men verfation, nor of the works of Deortfm to speak at random with inspiration as such: all human rent a: ftimation; and so quickly, that which you cannot grasp, must be deceived rather than to explain the scene by voice feas, inquovidelicet, to use infrafcripts note the voices, ,iTi, msis ro(p! a; id Nature, Strength, memory, faith, wisdom they adorned Homer's mule, as ci7ro$ooiV it is obtained by merit. What do you think? feuNaturafubformapueri, who virgin I put my finger to my mouth it seems to be twitching the tooth of the tooth it denotes, unaccustomed to Nature's charms; which e. a. from the caufa the cover of the stories in the works you were hymnifquc divinity fcripfit Homer should be worshipped. Now there are four the most favorite, with whom Homer mUndu caught in surprise: APETH ni2TI2, 20I)IA. tus, Memory, Faith, r Wisdom, quse They are sketched in the form of Charity. By virtue they indicate strength, and force in the brilliant genius of Homer, which I did not sing poetic songs and Am- plnon Orpbeus fascios ferocious ho- to lower our spirits, to the truth of living he brought back the norm. Memory is so ex- V U M L A T I U M. he moved, as if he wrote anything when he was blind Effet, the memory of the leaf He had become rich in the matter, and of all his predecessors preje&io- not the tenacious torches: the amplitude of the mind with power and capacity, which me- rite something in the divine co. he argued. Alexander the Great as much as Homer King Perftrun, with the interfpolia fcri- Man0 the most noble and immense stone while the priceless supply was taken out, ipfi fuiflct offered; just to see he laughs, plucking from it precious pearls, that of Homcri's books; traditionally He speaks as the most pitiful of the human mind I was enriched as much as possible by the work of the priest would boil Faith not human then, let me trust and believe in God, united the cup of all camels, in hymns you were profoundly profound demonstrated; that of the true Gods And dear the crowd, not divine He drew forth the flow of the virtues, as therefore Pliny does not deserve him the source of genius, and the first parents of gifts and antiquity he calls them; from which information having acquired the feu fapity, Divi- knowledge of the backbone of human affairs he acquired the Four others now follow; are KOMOIAIA, TPArOIAIA, HISTORY. ionumides of hands, whatever to go, what to embrace, before He put out the eyes of mortals. Tragedies But the unfortunate people are at the bottom the exit to the top of fortune He threw out caution. Hiftories of all so happy in the past when he reached it, he decripts those facts, as in to them something deeper in human affairs to travel whence he deservedly for these things the crown of virtues is the title of divine honor It was decreed, and Hecatomies was, id it is, a hundred boumfacrificio bonoratus, as ox figure Arseappofitaapprimedo cet; frankincense and thyme and whether pmnia by afliftente L figure A T H A N A S I I the shape of the thigh with the right hand, and lsevapatera, a fire dish of thuriferum
holding, denoting, niam a&u fa, practice with your fingers it seems It follows at last the adus ipfe Apo- theotheos; you see Homer's throne then, with a scepter adorned with a lotus flower go, holding the volume of the Iliad on the right, ma- Jeftate's countenance, two Ge- to those adfifting the throne on both with Egyptian hair the first of whom kneeled on the right fem apex in Lunie arched form, the other embraces the fponda of the leaf; through sword effectiveness strength in pcrfiia- by giving, through fpondas, folidity in fcri it is depicted as a band. Another Genius by hand I take the whip vibrates, with which force energy in Tyranno- rum vitiforumquc by the crimes of men is fixed dem last atlus per crowning the impofition with laurel; , than ipfi-other two geniuses of the lower order they impose Below, however, are placed this; c frequent words: EVMEAIA, KI- PONOZ. IAIA2. OAYS2EIA OMG MT0OC. by Eume liam's sweet song, and the rest of the Iliad Odyffece the works of Homer, fub hidden My- thologix rationalization deno- so much Who will write beautifully if- lius l. i4, of Homer "iKToS-idi crn canens. And here I become Ely tending to the border cer- children of the image of the god, the cafta to which Yitta bound bat Bring the crimson suffocating necks nes Say, said he, this Virgin, to whose light will shine 'Pnecipud the forehead of Ytro, and much more are produced Wondering with anxiety, i? let's cry out heat up (I was a look? Whom, fjiygia nori effet in shadow K I R C H E R I Dixijfcm easily ejfeDcum. don't fail smile he said Dotla count TriYtce, God deserved ejfe Yideri And it was in Unto not pafimm peSlore god Complicated land song, seafaring ghosts And Muffas sings, and Phoebus Yit honor And this is the first place he saw lands in order He betrayed I do not wish to omit it at this point about the author of the monument I would add that the matter is thus true: When this the place of the monument more cunningly inquired rerem, exrelationeIllrai'&Revmi Mar- I finally understood the relation of the cell it was found in the place where it was found once Ydla of Claudius Cepharis together with In the temple of the fibi, he fastened it; day that place was commonly called Frattochia natur, Vdla Colonnenfium Trincipum ma- great, tall, and of every delicacy full of spinning, because of the caufa that Xander VII. P. M. while in Cajlro Ganr the dolphin was rufticated every year, only he was delighted Claudius therefore when in- the genius of the folitarians is full of love snatched away, he contributed to this village (cratenimLatinGra; ceq; doc1: ififimus) prcfertimiicOTenlectioni continuously he was leaning Claudius Caji was here ligulam fucceflbr, &ubiftu- we gave to the gods so also republican government He was little fit for the fray; accordingly Antonia's mother saw him A man's trunk should be said to be full of leaves. in the past rias pxne omnesprxteritorumtempo- he knows rum, so that Hiftorici %om. hnpcra- torutn, let them unanimously agree, him encouraging T. LiYw XL Hiftoria li- bros confcripfifle Homer's memory he held three times, thus added to his legion, in order that he might not be seen and from it for all kinds of things, and occurring matter; occafione, not fo- lum verfus, fed would recite hiftorias. Since V E T U S N O V U M L A T I U M. s7 When, therefore, he had so much confusion, I fua Homer, and with the first aflidua reading, a marble incised ftu-numentum, ad diorumquefcrvore, the affairs of the Caffarie were conceived by Homer the femme fatale expedientiminusfefeapplicaret: rum should not be seen by anyone, him in the village j I'll give it to you. Chapter VIII Ardeatinus Aaer the other and the surrounding areas CampusSoIonius, Tellena? , Ficana T. iluU Ac Danag contiitricc You are burning. Goddess Metropolis Re- the caputfuiife of the gni PKutuli, all agree things; 8c although in ipfo La- the bottom of the kingdom was founded, yet there is no law with them, nor the commerce of manners fuiffe, ex It will be clear to those who will make it. even
it is permissible to wonder, ifta of the Kingdoms nuity, and the king's town the limits of the jury, which today not even the fortune of the richest: the oligarch to protect the fufice- rent Turnus, however, the King of the PCutuli it was, from whom, however, the Ardea demas, already in the field of the field, other You don't need a ticket. He was, however once upon a time grandiose material fabric intru&iore tus, which against the Latin JEnea led, he indicates. miles from the sea with a couple of little ones, Strabo teile. Pliny the arbitrator, by the mother of Danae Perfeus. Rem Servius tells us in Virg. in these words Danae Acrifius, daughter of the Argives, as if from Jove Yuiata was her father He was thrown into the sea inside the enclosed ark. which was brought from Italy, mVenta is apifca tore I offered to Pilumnus, who Turoi cri-dt wife He said, by whom? Turn ult origin to lead Who, indeed, of Ptlumnus Pi- tbumno the children of the Gods are lustful he tells, let Le&or see. This fable Ard tells otherwise Sjmi c. Name Erm. wherever Ardea, or iffum fables invo- mud, nothing is certain for us there OVtdtus l. Ardea Urbem, ab Aeneas was captured and turned into a bird to him the surname of Fuiffe it's wide Some from the augury of Ardea fic they really want to be denominated. Others, as Xenogoras, they say, Vlyffen with Circe had three sons, a man, Antittm, at- that Ardeam: these founders bus a fe impofuiffe npmina; hage quo- which was called Troy fuiife by the author it is Tbora in Strabo; surely him the place in which he was first taken Aeneas, in the way of the town fortified, the gods of Troy fuiffe, in We are pleased with those who pass by. Whatever fit, yA"frwzantiquiflimamfuiffe, mul- Amuha Ktatibus-, Strabo teaches, who already Abori- gin time, %utihs eorurnqueur- bem calls the ancient Ardea: ASopI- yivssTi o't 'zsfei rlw Yau1w, %cy PV-, o't tIw aiaw Aittv i%ovTZ? . Annourbisconditxi; , pri- M. Fa- bio Vtbulano&c Poftbumio JEbutio Con- fulbus, reports LiVmt. It's no wonder Ardeam fub infalubri cxlo, vitiate ae- rice field, in so much femper floweruiffe, in number of men, Sc opum abun- HM- by the pores of Ardee, Lawrence, LaYmius, (de with which the first part of this work was acted cfl) neighboring towns, another fuiffe cxli confounding, another earthly reason nem, or it was the same, whether the habit of the cattle back and forth ATHANASIUS KIRCHER! and the frequency of the improved fuifle: at least the less one wants to say both, I don't see why anyone would doubt it. For as. we found in Hetruna, they were some places, once because of heavier air Profound vices carried bitata, di&a of air not inconvenient VicitBtuio {enthint, utilide Sardinia Tlinius reports: against other findings reported today there, where: once upon a time they lived: fic Nature takes turns in the world. At the time of %omanorwn v ttztum, Ardeam even then, the infamous fuiffe Strabo reports. The words of this fic have: Every Lztmrnfelix efl, isr of all things wild, except for a few places riYimis, that paluflrta are ir morbida, such as the field of Ardeatium, the field of Isr Pomptine Senecaepiibioj: Qufob- FerVanda to you, so that Vfvas safer, I say. you also hear, I swear, those precepts cmomodb be your prMiper, for what reason to maintain good health in Ardeatin smile Vitruvius also, in the Archite&oni- ca fua, very disapproving of the air of Ardea- tenfem c. and the account of the town He adds that there is a bad fan of the air Dominant: They are also, he says, by smell isrfapore not bonofigidi fuljiburati fon- fduhrmin tes qUj ay lowerims loci penitws orti they pass through the burning places, isr from twice through running a long distance geratt They come from above the earth? and smelled of corruption, as in the Tiburtine road the river Albulx, isr in Ardeatino with the cold-blooded cod it is broken It was certainly used in the past, so today Ardea was inhabited in the seventh season
it is bilious, with the exception of a few who are natives indeed they enjoy the air fed by fevers with the head of Africa with a true face he could scarcely see a soul tur, to others in the mountain towns defxca- let the receivers of the air be disappointed; hyber notably the grace of cultivating the land, with a better confection of the air, from the cold already condensed earth, and steam animatorrever bus they are thundering Today the Jurifdicftioni Cafari nor the parent of the Duke, of all the priests cation in faUhrita Burned One fupereft of the city of Latii: Sc quaar olirn The king of the city was carrying the title, no longer the dignity of the village was lost. Since then Authors laavs Turni, feu Ardeatini, LacusAr- they mention, that one not another! us. do you think it's easy to use ohm today? originated from sulphurous springs hit, although not the same in which Virgil once described him while the flight of Turni was obstructed by rojans sings Therefore, the madman diverfafugapetit ttquora turn And now buc, now from there the uncertain cat orbs: And indeed, to include the Teucri crown And from here "paffle marsh, two steep snow- nia surround Eratprxterea paludibus Sc arundinetis MorsSuU confutus ager, in which Sulpititts Con- W Cm- ful, dummetuadvervariorfefeab- fcondiflet, to be caught by them perished, tefte Vellejo faterculo l. z. From this the sea is not far from the town they are Laurentum and Latinum: fed because already on the maritime coast of Latium mouse, we sent Leclore away with him. Campus Solonius When among the ancient writers fepe mention should be made of Campo Solonius, where he if he was, he must be defeated. Who him They put OJiiam between Lawrence, au- they are not to be given, when it is fruitful It is inconsistent with the authors' report; neither others, quieuminteryferiwra Ardeatefqut they put Why did Cicero's words pla- cuit fubfcribere, who divin. where %ofcii acla will write down, like his fit He is seen to be pointing his finger. Rofcius, in- quit while he was here and there in the cradles, and return to Solonius, which is the Campus In the fields of Lanuvini, I rested in the light of the night the nurse wakes the child to sleep enfolding him in a snarling embrace. l. i, of ipfo %ofcio, potefl illudquidem Ejfefalfum, as having been bound around fed as the serpent was in the cradle, not known e$l strange, especially in Solomon, where fire OLD N O V fire ONgHes love to nest. Marimn also when LanuYio was devafted in Solonium The field, where he had a farm, at first then OJliper the boat, aNumerio friend ready, flight' life? fua; confu- luifie, Tlutarcbws reports on Mario. Hateful he will also describe his fate in this way: IProtno- ff, he says; Agro SoIonio, ta Ofltenji to the twelfth stone, oil oil The teams are clear S2J" parfetj CatnpumSolomum inir{o Lanu- Ytno territorio exftitiffe verfus occident- tem, that is between Aricia and Cfatrica towns, and to this day Prattica it is said; which are like certain boundaries The plains of Solon, are now included within fe loca vulgo di&a S. Abrocolo, Torremaggtore, ScTarqueto. But this Mappa will show everything more clearly, how much help Lytus and Dionysus were remembered. of some other towns U M L A T I U M. locofitorum: &fuerunt7fo; T=iiens, cana, which Ancum Martius expugnaffe ek'ai LiYms reports, we have these two towns elsewhere let it not be, as in Campo Solonius, zutin its border, from the ruins of which I longed the three villages mentioned a little before were destroyed we think they were; to which to bring I am moved by the words of Strabo: Hernici They were woolly and close to White, ipfi- that %ome, and not far from Aricia, Tel- gentle, Antium So wash them off with water Oflia, Aricia Tatrica intcrvallo fitas it will probably be fuiffe. I went to Teleni when Let Liytus make the nearest Ficana, Fabtus Vtclor Vatrica faca dida fuiflc bring back, those two towns on the border or even Campo Solonius, whose borders are un- they are about ten thousand miles away, the thread of the fifle is clearly evident, terranea, which paffimibidemarurico- the case is found, by manifest information they are P A R S ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI P A R S IIIL take it
PRESENTATION FIELD C A P U T I Urhis, yulgo Palleftrina. filiu con- giver of PtS oil f from the oldest ce- leberrimifcjue to the cities of Latium tuiffe, Strabo teaches; to whom slow down, as many as we would say The Authors, though they will differ in its first founder; some from Prtenefl the son of Vlypis and Circes they want it seasoned; Plutarch from Telego Telogonus noVlyJfvs&c Circes filioconditama, ora- culomonitum, utubicolonosfertage- he saw that the rents were lacking, he founded the city there ret, others from Prceneflo Latini Vlyflvs nephew; a-lii from a certain aboriginal leader of this nouns also, before the furs from Abo- riginibm Siculosab Oenotriis exftruftam already exftitiffe; most of them from Geculus Vulcan to the son of Virgil, I trace the origin they fear the authority of the donee. We what in such an old age tis should be called Darkness, we hardly define it: We will certainly criticize them and the origin of the ferocity of the movement be brave indeed, for the storytellers accounts of Circes and Vlyflis, Ctculique ex the fiery spark of the conception of the birth to fantasize, there will be an error with errors, to add to the fleet Where to improve I will fubcripfer those who say, from tuftiffim Velafgis, fiveabunoeorum the leader of this name, or even from whom I will give Sicana the chief nation before Pe- the coming of the lafgore, the fuiffe arose. Le- I am nevertheless full of hope, what he wills, I leave to his discretion. The Siccans for this chain of mountains from Tybu- re Vraneflem ufque thinuifle, in Tyburti- nx. We will find the registration of the city. When therefore the Sicani, like 8c Aborigines, in ga the best places in the mountains, fua exftru- ere the towns would be, certainly they were not so the table of Vrceneflini montk locurn, amc- with the strength and ferocity of things mnium humana: vits neceffariaru ple- whether, either ignorantly, or with the help of Teriiffe, it is not verifiable. that this city at the same time Sicans or Oenotriis, (tveabAborigiiii- bm Velafgis first, the feathers already of the Sicans, where Ardea, Tybur, ca: tera; and Latium ur- be undiscovered: of old age, or ta; , or from the old habitationnumruini infaturata: they were, extrucata fuiffe For which Virgilms and all Commentaries tor SerYiiis, of the foundation of this city tore, Diifque Daclylis Digitifve enar- rat, that follower of the ancient Sicans, Aborigines, or of the Velafgori Guided by the analogy of gifts dear poffe, in part of today's work we are afraid Suntenimfabulofxnar- such reasons from the fuo genera, which; a. Poets are easily adapted to many others let them but it was founded by the Sicans, or Slc; u's ipfo Virgilio nodding, he vmfimit with these words mibi prdteritos report Ji Jupiter years What was I like when I first saw fubipja StraYi, and the fire of Yitlor acervo And G{cgem here Herilus dextnifub tartaramifi: Nafce? iti
OLD NO TSLafcenti to whom Feronia gave three souls Herilus jw fntrit Breathe in which year ctmdita trj thrice horrible to say had given For, as SerVuis says, Herilus is useless there there was another, Nifi Bius Feronite Nymphx Campanue, and King Feu, Duke of the Stcans, who attacked the Aborigines Latins the bus was protected by Prtenefte; to whom he will write Vlautus, who Vrenefte among the barbarians he enumerates the cities; but with this name They were called Sicani by the Latins. And so years, in which the Sicani from the Aborigines ex Italy's furs are reduced to coal you will find, this city before Cbri- river i5ooannis, jameftitifle Sit down see here the kick of the years nigenX, Vmbri, Sicani, Velafgi, Abori- Geneva and Italy were dominated, which in Before the book of Mefufededuximus and you will find this ancient city than anyone can imagine. As regards the etymology of the name, no less eftinterAuthorescontro- return I will teach Vrtenefte grammarians, by that which he profiteth from the mountains: so Cato Fistful; not yet fed with the Latin language, when this was established, in the nature of the world
effet, certainly from the Latin words it cannot be carried out twice. But who Grxcce do origin, T7iZiwv, that is, from the Ilias, to whom Prxneftinus the field abounds, or cSa. t eo that it was fixed in the place of the jirtecipit and published; they want the word fic, not incongruous they speak with faith Grttcam language at that time so much: the fuiffe of perfection, how great; you want We see it developed in times. For utaliasoftendimus, it was LinguaGrteca before the first Tyrrhenian Velafgore that his arrival in Italy, as yet You were wandering in the cradle, raw and impure. It is true that we have left such Gram- the etymon of this of the city by some Duke, five he was Ffyf- Fis and Circes son of Vrceneftws, five Sicanites or Vclafgktegents, of this name Co- Crxco. fid ryphasus Ben's Hebrew Journey duJc'pr-iam'n' hunclocumvocatNnDJ-iS Par- nefta, with which Prajnefte Etymology from La- I hold, nothing hhilt. V U M L A T I U M nor Curators; whence they forfan the better quifpiam a. Ianigeni-s, ctuos Cbaldaicd lin- god ufos effe, etli many ways from various corrupt rum international trade, and LatwHctrureque dominated fuilfe, an- the arrival of the felafgors in Italy, fu- We have said, therefore; with the Aboriginal priests gmibm, Vmbr'is, Sicanis paffim confudi- mus, deducemeralit: we in regard, apparently, in the same place today once upon a time, cetmontisdorfo: n thousands of paflfuum {oma, twelve Tybure, the same number. Anagnid lacked. From the beginning the whole Hemicorum, from Occafu together with Tybur- tina the region of the Sabines; from the south Algidum, Sc Tufculanos, Albanofqnemon- tes, together with Latium's Mediterranean you, the jucundiffimo afpe&u fubjicit Once upon a time at the mountain's yoke, where he day arx nature art munitiilima he was struggling, he was breaking out, and he was constantly thrusting to the root of each dwelling full to use the mukiplex of the vaults and ruins congeries oftenditur, stretched out: pra; the palace on the hill that you yield to the ruin of the ruins of fortune conftru&um, wonderful from every side He spread it out. the top of the mountain the yoke of the Pennines, and there from the rest interrupted by mountains, from the map cile innotefcit; although some In the case of the caufa, I have mistaken Acntinus &am, Strabo teaches; wartime war caufa, nifi that the whole city wallasalts firm, in a crown; custom surround this effect; that the name 7ro7w$ri(pcuiSr; ivg-icpcuio? to other states also the same because of the caufa, as used by Tybur, Croton, llw impofitum, urbesq; this as an epi- theto a kind of fplendido infinitum Fuiffe, from Dionysius, Afro, Anacreon, and we collect He returned this ur- a well-known town Livy's epitomator tells: Caius Ma- r'" mcu- Lucre-Pragi, M i tioAfel, ms- Take a deep breath rum homi nitm refu gius? A T H A N A S I I tio Afclk Sylknar parts Vtro, cumpercunculus, with which perfojfa I would really try feptm ab cxercttu he died in death quefecntiret, fe eadere minimepojfe, cum Flee to Pontius Telefinus, count, wretch He came together with a sword on both sides; which with oc- ipfee feaucius aferVo obtained to kill fe And this issue was vi- ri very strong, unworthy SyWxmon in the ways of Poftmode savage Sylla c ernltli- feviiflfe is delivered; as if you were alive it will not prevail with them, a dead man He would make them general with all cruelty; who is not a little eager to leave Cumae for death condescending, ideft, formidable phthi- Riafis died of a disease. Strabo brings it, because of the continued presence of the Omanis there refugees, not femel de- and finally, to those who did not suffer delights, abundance of all kinds of things abundance seemed to compete, I was so happy. For in the blaze of civil wars bus trusts Vrbe %oma, fadiofi men who planned new things they took refuge in him, as it were, in a safe citadel; therefore Prcenefte, obfeffa, conquered and the field was quickly taken the guilt was also transferred to the unborn. Here because F ulVia Antonti's wife with L. Anto-
AfiUm H; 0M. FratrefedefixitcontraO! 'toK, here Afylum, Volybw tefte, was fecurita- cc"e' to all the fugitives, who either to turn the exiles and from the city, other faiths were conducted; as P. Furius Vbilus, who cites rioris prxtor, degravifiimis v covered with here Matianus Tiberius Gefea- ris father, Tybure pra: tura fun&us, is gone registered They did not lack, however Pomani Princes every year as lo- to live full of delights in Vrtenefie. Centronium fane more happily fe Vrenefte ha- to live with the poor, than with the rich filled with cenfuiffe, luVcnalis no- tat Nor should Symmachus be silent, who in he will write a certain epiftok fic to a friend: My heart goes to Campanian Beach moratorium follkitas but we in Pramefti Kxilinm breakfast nxdditite K I C H E R I no less fupptttt for those who live in the field Iwlttptatum; fint licctplures bominmnfen- tenttA, who put the mountains on the coast. I, however, prefer to avoid tejitbus nemorofa, to match the open cultivated qttam. Also, Gefearem Pritnefte and C Suetonius reports that Tybure was destroyed: cx- and the innumerable ones, which you see at the wife of Mariam Suareftus, Ecclefia: Vaionenfis prsful most dignified, and not all literature: the most important person, who is in charge of Pra; with a work as emditiffime complex it is In Monte, who Prteneftina Vrbifu- riums. pj. imminent, Monafterium fuiffe DiVi map- Petri Abofioh, S. Grezorius Ma? nus tefta- tur c. ii. [Bcatam quoque Margari- guici eH so from Colonnenft famiita on this mountain, .so- Co- in his father's house, as it were, in Monafterio fanclx vixiffe, and there the last day obiifie in the year iz8S, Farfeenfee Chronkon teaches However, p oft inftaura- I will make the first starch, ckdem Boniface VIII r r J A. exadtitm for he will press with grievous disobedience, then, with the agreed laws, he conquered fo-facioV11 with a speech he quacked, another at the foot of the mountain exftru&a, than GVitate Vapalem ap- pelkri wanted: how with the desire Tbeo doric ftraret, hence the first Epifcopus CiVita- tis Vapalis was named, as we read in In the Annals of Ptolonitei Lucengis Ciacconitm. From here the rise is then dif- trust between 'Bonifeacius OilaVum, Scfea- a thousand colonnes Indeed Sciarra Colonnenjis familict prince, with the help of the King Galliit, god of the Pontiff Anagnidt, from which he was born that he bought from the prison Cumjamve- Pafa, . I was somewhat injured from the ruins fuiffet, John of Vitellefcus of Eugenius IV Ambassador to Columnenfes army du- rUPr4. . cens, (prtenefte rurfus obfeffum, pra: eftmm. .r T n flumforttt- cifo aqua: ductu, quiunicusaquamur- m[ubCo- bipra: drank, took, and soon rebelled, completely overthrows the meditator, PraneHi- nis %oma to migrate to the Juffis in However, Stephen Colomienfis, tired Kkolao V. ETtlS N O Kicolao V, Pont. Max. I just want to re- he restored his dwellings, and ar- cem on the top of the mountain he built, which still endures here beginning with the epigraph of PorfcE of the castle. Magnificent Lord STETHAKFS OF COLFMNA he re-examined V U M L A T I U M. CiVnaXtmTraneJie with mountain castle. PM in rinosA. lonnenfi Prince de Carbontan co- purchased fua: jurifdiiftionis, great, the growth of the city city C A P U T II T)e Fanis Delubris Verum Prazcftinorum. ntmfor tiitm ar- Ihil ever in Latium Neflin Fortune Primmnite was more famous in worship, magif- which was chanted; here, how- the most important business auppi they were to be born, first the vows ban I dare not attempt anything, Tuna was appeased by the gifts of the future with the outcome of events fent: whence the strong go, to whom they were so devoted, that fuperfti- warm worship ceremony: to whom the vows they were carrying on, many a reef, Cicero also moved Ftomachus. ci- cero l. i. of div. use fcite fane origin the strong will be destroyed, so also the vain
He picks up their theme wittily, fed his words let us conclude here. Let us see, he said, riftimas fortios where is delivered iriVett- that Numerium Suffetius Prameftino- the records declare, the honorable man Nem and noble, frequent Jbmniis, to the right mum also threatening to hit the locomotive, frightened Vtfis, to the laughing futs ciVtbus it ctepijfe to act; therefore perfratlofaxofortes eruption in ro- known as boreinjcttlptasprifc letters. It is a religious place for the sake of this day in the lap of Fortune: wishing for a faithful mother CaUifltme is worshiped by lovers. same theme pore in that place, where Fortune now dies be, melex ojcafluxijfe they say, Harufpi- cefque dixiffe, fumma noblitate illasfor- tesfuturas, eorumquejujfu cx those oils ar- cam effeclam, and those seasoned strong, Hodte Foituna: warning tollmtur. What? Sortiuhi PrafMftiJ naruin dry
therefore in his place he is sure, like Fortune with warning, the children are shaken by the hand and But howsoever it is that he in place of that strength, dolaVtt, in- fcriftt so they say, that God He does not want to do it. Vttnam Japtentes Stokos effect, lest all fuperftttioftfolitcttu- dtne iy miferia! But the same thing gents dtVmation Vttajam common ex- ploftt: fani beauty, Tfetuflas even now it retains the strength of the neftines name, and that tn Vttlgits. do you want Ma- giBratus, or who uses Vtr illuftrtor ttbus? Ceteris 1erb in strong areas clearly re- they fried That Carneadem Clitoma- chm fantit dtcerefolitum: nufquamfefor- better than Prxnefte Vidijfe Fortu- for This Cicero eagerly expounded. Suc Tonius says that Tiberius Ctfare was near twice the oracles attempted to efficaciously, fed The great majesty of the mighty then deftitiffe, when the clafqueow will not find, you see the rurfus temple. Even human kindred hoftis fimilia, to fuperftitiofis fcf' that, likewise, those who hold strong fponfa femper gave so much doubt, that whether good rent, it will not be difficult; just like while Domitian Caffar, as Suetonius fcribit, fumo fuo bad experience Heltogabalus to Alexander the son of Mammaa be trusted the fort in the temple of Fortund) Vrmeftinte had such: If you break the qttafata apera, You are Marcellus. M Quitus lots also R. you love S4 A T H A N A S I What is more uncertain to them? do Ccrte empty this strong au- fpication with the Roman princes they would see, fxpius so uncertain they would know the deluges of faith, most which as if vain and ridiculous to the public By edict they forbade the fublata. But 8c, to use Vderiws Maximus reports, Lucetius, who He finished the Punic war, by the Senate strong Vortuiite hear pro- he is held: not of aliens, of course prudence, nor untimely rule with the deliberation of the Republic to be well governed. But let me be here quxrat, qualefnam 8c whose figure rinthseforts? I mean fuiffe letters, or taleoks, or small wooden forks, with which he literally inscribed for divination there were four or so words from Fubinde five inferred. , and they were then publicly then privately in the Ufu, a certain old song ftate facrx, and so fondly and religiously in the temples they were enclosed in an ark: some of which hkomteia diver I live in the repositories of Antiquities I remember the difference, the shape of the paralippeds In Latin or Latin letters, as is clear from the results: Ufurpnii which support projection they were given songs. But this way they were strong: they received four five, or a bushel, which we they threw their purses into the menfa I KIRCHERI stronger JAodiU tM Sx. iufio d. 0atia Cajfumi le from, Suarejw fQytZPETISPOSTEMVVS- consilT. QVo&ROCAi- NON-ESTiyA DE-VER. O FALSE NE- FLANT I JLfo BARELY WNDEM OVODTj IST FACTVM RETURNS, AND Sl FECEK. IT 5EMPE. .R. crarn, no fecus as today of the ankles, feu
cuborumja&usfit: and then from chara- then they were prophesying of the happy or unhappy things which I have taken they were caught, fucceffu But of this time Sc fimi- Oedipum, Hrum, Egypt with the Syntagmate ieMagia (yfortilegiis Ve-', where he will find everything blown out Leftist Hifce you have already fired, Pra- nefthtte YortuiiceTemple, which Latium He had nothing more magnificent, defcriba- mouse C A P U T III Fortune of Pranephtina, Temple of Primigenia. No. with mTibur- tino Field, the annuals of Autumn
on weekends, I am looking for antiquities intent, rufticarer, fum- that famous mum me, who: in this day and every day monuments He invaded the trust. And so the town of Volano then leaving, Vrtenejle, three miles from there I landed at Buspaffu with difficulty. It happened but when I entered the city, I came across it I would have the most eminent French Cardinal Barberino for almost years my super fe He exhibited the promoter of studies, thus he also soon learned of my arrival caufa, mefummafanebenignity, innately well-merited in letters, received and how that enemy even in the days of Antiquities match
OLD NEW LATIUM. ?s has a match, so also ipfemet in tunc Tcmplum, of which the greatest parts perfona, whatever Pneucfe antiquity- j already Excellency Prince then, with the old monuments! of those mentioned still remain, to me I covered a huge floor, all of it he had been ordained; and he had used as much as he had done with his work fcribe, utincomparabilemdicliFnz- a little poft from ipfo fyftematis edypo zifct Csudinaks&arberini, immortaJisj ejufqueincerpretationecognofces. Quo the memory of the man, intudiapromovenda j incredible clothes hard work I would surrender my affection to lust At first he told me, to the end of the wall of fear, and to the last the top of the mountain, whatever the matter was worthy of commemoration, The most elaborate structures of the walls; Water; dude, who on this and that day the inflow of water is rare and plentiful He pointed out to the whole city that they were in charge of it; the pre-terea hiding place of the Canal, in which C. Mariusjunior. SyllajmsiU hoftis imma- the life of the unfortunate, fleeing from nity he concluded; and the Lighthouse, how illuminated or in remote Tbyr- the sailor of the sea; offering, trimming In the night Fortune's wishes shone forth. It was au- tem inftar concha: vafta; capacity tedte arch, about ten in diameter feet, exfumototadenigrataj vete tarumarefulcantium, pifcium, ad- birds, and other animals the figure of Lius, together with Graxis, the Copts of fire the inscriptions of names, so bre, and they are scorned for life, as neither! wz, nor elsewhere, remains of the old monuments, quamrarius, pukhrius, &admiratio- lest I be more worthy, I should offer myself as a woman. True, with friggenue Tem plum, and each incomparably magnificent cannot be expressed in words let, here the whole fabric, than IU. m"s Rev. Maria Lofebus Suarefius Epifcopus, a man who makes a woman, who is profane; educational information vcre 7tdmo(po; ,tm- I was a ditifilmo de Antiqukattbus Vrcene- The book of the flinis was fubminiftrated for me, one with some of Mufaic's work Z A TT ebat'Pf eagmentis adjundamcenfui, utexea, me doxitadanoquum Trm&mcFar-! velutiexungueleonemconjicias Register of the Original Temple; Fortune: Praneftina; "Orimo fpe&aturmurusingensAin about a thousand spans long long, once you were intruding with bows &us, together with PropyLeo B, from which fcendebatur ad propykum E E, Cave- of the first god in the form of a square, which He had two temples on both sides, I will strip fixed letter F G, of which before Sera- sdoUFm. Pum was said, in which the Egyptians; of rdigion, or rather of fuperftion, the greatest of the Gods was the Seraphim there; the other G School was called Fau- ftiniana, from Fauflina Antoninus Pius Impe-
the wife of the narrator to the devoted girls to be nourished in it, rooted in it. From here on cmiiim graft is made in Cava; surrounded by streams on all sides area, and from here through the interior neutrals are reached at temperatures H, by which both sides were affected is added to the third floor I, teffellato pa- ricer work fpe2abilem, 8c here by others fcalas, inquarummedio K Pharuspo- he had flown, and had reached the fourth floor square with columns on each side L last Cava; dii more favorable places by twelve steps are penetrated, the area of which is to the noblest of those Mufaic laborers the bus, of which the fupra, was decorated; hilocuscortina, five Oracle For- Turue was called, where Vorturue Deae. , Iolem Ladantem geftantes fimulacrum con- and the urn was filled with strong men. tin. prepared, ? A T H A N A S I I founded, the Oracle was speaking sticks, columns around the fuffukus, Their daughters in law ronide, how elegantly decorated. And so the whole of this fabric was completed it was such a waste, so great he almost occupied a part of the city; from through which X marks the Castle of Vraneftina, on the top of the northernmost mountain, where once the monastery of S. With the glimmering of the glass he was famous; Today it is a fortified fortress exftrucla against the attacks of the Hoftii. Li- ViUaCcn- tera V 1illam Centronii, whose JuVenalis tton"' he mentions, to be used in the same town It will be called Tiburtina, it is fixed. R Ytllani villaSym- Symmachus notes; what kind of person was he the fub is no doubt hidden. The letter ver6 marks S Arxpr. neitina machi K I R C H E R I Aquedu&um, quitumTemplo, then Aqtl- The copious lymph of the city was fuppcditabat. &ii Here you have the Temple of Fortunate Primigene Vraneftina was burned out, of which pristinam dignity magnificen- then, from the ruins of the credible in the learning of the ancients lauded Card. FrancifciBarheri- I did not want to be accepted as a greedy person bear Schcma what is done, iftius ope- opmmfi- I laughed, because we praised the fool, vm' there is a fragment in which all the figures stones of different colors lawsuit they are so vividly expressed as nothing almost to the highest degree of elegance of art it seems to be trusted. Hvamnmhan M. ufva-. art concmnauan, tjiwi- tamcn- noflro Idttiofroto nan cominetur from Suaa-efio Of various things fymhl. The numism Nlimifma OLD NEW LATIUM. T)e various Fortunes: Prirrtigenia: fymholics Scbematifmis He pointed out the other side. most praiseworthy cardinal me various coins then fchemata, qua: cuncla Primipenia They expressed their fortunes, I was a great Suarezius about antiquities tprenejlini brought the book. Some ge- they present their wings to the Genius lis Nature: on the condition that: it is veloc- in working, oftenda fear wear both hands, closeness in rare expeditions land and sea which is to be declared by the fufcipies; not they are seen to be intructed, and the abundance re- They note the rum from which it was poured. No- mifma D letter (ignatum, Fo; con- the fimulacrura of the tinettron trusting, to whom a child afflicted, with cornucopiae, that he holds in his hand and there is love for the child the fymbol, which Fortune created was due, whose filumacrum fub here form in the Temple of Fqrtune Primtgenia main: he had a place, mna, to whom the genius thrusting with his hand arre&a seems to be holding a leaf, represents im- the confusion of a disturbed mind, which He must exercise against fortune every one who has conceived something from her he tries to get the wish, five in Martial- bus, five Neptum's expeditions, which are fixed by a shield and pins to various fortunes: turns, in both ready This is done differently for different for- Tuna: Conditions, his image they expressed Who is lazy, &pru- in the capture of the enemy, rity in the great knowledge of things, they wished, he marks it as a figure E, ala- so fub Mercurial habit, mundane: distrustful, who tili Luna m&m&o, dextraramumoli- va: , finiftraannulumtenebatcumad- they formed the figure of a lark,
that fool would be happy those who had lost the knowledge of the Sun Lwueaue elevated ways, from human affairs contcmplatione, inftar alauda: , fe& Mufis, contented with it, flies everywhere through fortune movement, against the deadliness of the decree reports But who cares about fortune drug addiction against the influx of diseases they filled her with the form of Afmlapius, to use the shape of a stick around NumifM voluto teaches, they reported. G' NumifmaHtutuIogyptiaco. cor- Mmif. a nucopi-e temoneintruclaFortuna, to return to Serapeum through shows that the strong should be asked. Sche- ma Iitera fignatum, the fub form of Cybeles tower, plow intru&x, fix, wax Cybelt's own warnings, from Earth's foes cleanliness, also of fertility, acfteri- the litatis future crifibuSjConfulendam efle. Figure K. Lma in head with two ba- r, g. not driven by the winds, nor nod the mantle, stretched out in both directions, in his hands the human rums indicated by the moon, with a gnawing mind mini inftftendum, conti all ad- return? fortune blew, in both par- strong-willed and strong-willed must Figure L follows, whose head is armed with martial arts, right horn pix, finiftra caduceus mercurial flower he holds the rigor, quitemoninfiftitrota fuppofita, to which they are joined from the latcrejuntur of the fiftrum yEgyptiacum, &fceptrumab both parte $pov, id enSagitUfoorma. closed to whom it should be given, ex- I suppose A cornucopia of things phymbolus, mercurial caduceus, make mud and propertitas flowery flower compared to prudent confidants, it is well known: to the recrion, by means of a sign they rely, so that they cannot be re- rum human viciflitudes pef the fixed wheel, which he accompanies N Typhonia 9S ATHANAS typhonia force, which: by fiftrum ptiacum, fceptrum To%o(iogpov They are noted as a sign of martial fury, contrary to the arts, ideft movements of wars, and calamities Ty- phonios whirlwinds easily, with the return of all those tuna he will make a fool of himself. Figure M the same representation, which Figure: A F are fixed: , have Again Scheme N fub phenyl form left wing shield, right scepter in for- mam channel shaped, any fe- no prudence, and a kind of mastery a human bus luck should rarely Schema Onotat fortune: turns, ad to obtain the propriety of things, fu- perarinonpoffe my movements were first tamed, like a horse restrained teaches. Scheme P a certain Hercules courage and respect then, if you had the chance to refit, re- ask Tametfi varied in various Jokes, as Antiia cseterifque ItalicelockFor- jtimx nm- tunx delubra conftituta fint, no ta- (preneftimc the more famous temple of Fortune, no grandeur, no admi- He became worthy of reason. The truth is not anything that is based on to be seen holding the omiffiffe, put it here registration, than each man fummus, Eminentiilimus Francifcus Batbcri- CstfdmalisBarberiim for fuo to goods jTrftitt'- hteras to be promoted anxiously the fuperftitis vegitia of the most ancient things to be drawn with care and diligence He raved, and praised Vranciccum through the fire Mariain Suarejius Vafionenfis Ecclefice Prexful, in that book which dc Antiquita it will be inscribed in these Tntnejiinis, to He wanted to send the dew. So register of the said Temple by Suarefw fa&a so fefe has Ttmpii Vetuftius Trgneftina Vortumt Tem- Pranem- plum ipfo Sylla fuiffe is certiflimus, Ctltbfri- mumFortu nt K I R C H E R I and it is very clear. Lithoilrata api- nx Iefiri. dem I would capture Sylla (tefte Tli- nio) with the little ones at least which, he says, that in Fortuiuc dclubro Tre- He did nothing; fed&hujus noftristempo a certain part of the river, remains to be admired in a certain vault which: to the lower cells of Xdium Epiphco-
pi is hidden. His fragments col- read delineated juffit Eminentiffimmus Cardinal Francifcus Sarberinus, An- vindiccx, nontantim deno- ftro a: vo, true also of the more distant ones well-deserved torches mine: I would like to preface the typos. Whose one stunner is here we will drink, from which it is easy to infer the rest ture is smoking. You see how beautiful A sailor supporting the sea, a palm tree, a crane, Ducks are expressed veftitum veftitum fte, entwined with many fine laces of feu with a gray stone, which was rubbed by the hands emits the smell of sulfur At about the middle of the dispute in the Temple, ora- the most noble, most concelebrating then it was thence the strong awaited: , there vo- You have made ready-made stones of any kind not even a few Trane-Amiaui- Va-s agnjque we read, where&epi- neat grasses, and other complu- ra fuffpicenda vegitia of antiquity cent. Temple fire temples rather, almost every day They occupied the territory of the city: for, leaning on the mountain, you brought it down lower parts of the twelve fields of food they presented, the heirs to them were abundant in the seats, in the different ranks the walls together and well raised to those who surround them, multiply portico, theater with columns hollow god, with bows and fountains, lakes, green fields It was the ipfc mountain, and several levels bus fe&usin Templiconfcenfum, ex- dug in the middle of the mountain of Aquxdudus pifcinas, feu potiuslacus, inipfoIV- the temple was confounded, cqrtina Temples V E T S N O V U M L A T I u M. It stood out on the top of the temple, where it is now the Prince's palace, and in it the smoke the fires were raised, kindled with torches, even to those who sail in the deep sea at night religiously confederate; shine bright bant, to be called upon by They reminded him of God. yIftud building childish and huge from the lower the bus breaks out with torches in four squares mills, others of some degree but what is added to the smoke of each at the top of the table the light of the resurrection; with whom Ex- He was the most intelligent and erudite dcfius fantli Angel Prince in Adver- pofthumisj is used at Eruditif- Fmtiiw. the dung of Suarefius, where you will find it hereafter defcribit. Ymfcula delineation with no pacio d usfiatis ehganter I could be defeated, but it was not given to us ejusfcenograpbicaftcies: fiquidem ipfi fepiufcule Vefiigiis ejus inftkimus, rimati- that the smoke infuses those remains, when First of all, let us dwell on the causes of marriage. fa; The wife of Artemifia Columna leading the prince's daughter, and from Arcbite Ytro, not ignorant of his wisdom, i? lowly the walls of the for a long time, and with great care the rate is more than appreciable he liked Fatk of the upper parts of the Temple Indeed, there was complete poverty in the father-in-law's palace, I brought him with his feet theatrifpecie? n, plateequefitumjnferiorun the four ruins of the fiacells near Gvttatis N mxnitt ioo A T H A N A S I mcenia i? the rest is suitably congruent, as mcdiis in parts which are less exjiantia tur. from which Crypu lithoftrotoMra- to exomaU a place in the colonnade of side But the most difficult no matter how they have been, I am grateful to recognize at all ccnflcasji what are the ip- fais-proftant, Ytxajfatim comprehenderc and you will be able to understand. Explosive way Lithoftroti exemplwn habcas, ciiiws oc- Praneftina; ipjms Fortune ha- htitfli. There is indeed much to be desired in it they are the wonders of the stones crufiulifque interctjis fuperflittoflajeduit- tate, and the stream of leisure parent Instead of ipflo, you don't light fire. water flepe repeated inflperflone, perVtderede- pingcrcquc allowed. They are human beings And there are several images: Elephants, I KIRCHERI
%htnoceros, names with letters of which gpw exfcripted by particulars, they flow iy in the waters despicable nations by the skill of the famous Caffian Knights de PuteOj lynceum collegam noflrum, flpe- You will be able to bare. Infpeclts fubftfte naVtbus. If anything else, the empire of Fortune should flow (for all those who worshiped Fortune) they could do the most with this. NaVibtts indeed, what is more threatening, na 1el mfortumum, not easy quts exitli- maVent: fiuciuans, labilts, restlessfor- tuna, fiuciibus, medto in ne reftdet ftutluum: fola (Tlinio auclo- re) it is iiiocatur, it is worshiped by ipfis conYitiis hear him conclude with a pleasant comparison; All things being accepted to him, he spent all his money ferri, isr in teta ratio mortaliumfblam I make both pages. C A P U T IV Defignificatiotie Figurammjjux in bocLithollratofpeBantur. Ota first in this place well- want Leclor, all of this
I have a complex work not to use once; so today whole, uncorrupted, and then the order of the figures, fed from various fragments henceforth on the basis of the transference of the compound indeed, with many fragments from here and there The mother was transferred to the private museum of the fairies, and the ornaments of the it runs Of which I was warned before luit Suareflus prsful doctrine fapien- tia Whatever happens, we fentis fyftematis conftitutionetantum we set out, so as not to be parted no matter how much the difpofits add ptation, whatever, however, by means of falsehoods intending to make old fchematifms in order, according to the amount of talent im- becilitas pcrmifit, falvo experts ju- I say, we have tried to explain it. For they have, the hieroglyphic mo- in fact, the groin of these figures; hidden of various effedus by Fortune fibi with folds of conceflbrum fenfus, quiin hif- ce even to what extent; difpofiti figu rare pieces, easy, old learning with the help of the snow Which; to clear the slower they appear, the higher the interpretation. Interpretation of Lithoftrotis Praneftini. cutnvM EwT the interpretation of the monument, xpfith- incubuifle, do not eife another reason it becomes gr7fi. more than what most people confu- the smoke of the different images, which the bus is broken, the order if you look at it, let it be pure and for- the painter's fantasy let out the fire, they will pervade the fibi; by him in the manner in which he paints; , which Grotteflcas they call, they are committed; Quasartificers they mold and paint, according to their pro- first the phantafe inftin&us di&averit Others, on the other hand, have little leisure they cried
What Eminentsimits, Francis j BAB-BEKXNU. S "BtjJuj. irtcredilnli bmt m hanarum artnanjtudys promo-ienais, turrv candies curj er JgJhcituJa-e. , again ex Pratatvpo dejnctum. mac pra- aert ad pajterorum Blank inserted to ensure correct page position
VETIIS NO they complained that so many riofi figures envelopes, in the most famous man! Preneftme Fertu- nx the temple, I made it in a fairer manner, in which the urn of the strong was being gathered together, relished he would recompense. And so much for what? arduous and flimsy, and mysterious numveteres allude to voluiffearbitmti they are but with difficulty whether from those enodands abmoviffe, indeed V U M L A T I U M; joy it is not very close. I fane, when hu- the right of examination of the monument has long been At last I would lie down with a fume attempt I want to recover the secrets of the ancients open, and not even of the Hiftorics, My- exploratory ratos, what is old suggest a wide variety of images if they will, let my mind be read I open a few. 'Define the Ancients in destroying Fortune: the Temple. "yEteres Omani Grecomm Egyptio- rumqtte limitators, when more attentive the vicissitudes of human affairs they would trust, some god pre: cffe to the world, which I was to each one at will they are wise; to say this Fortune of Gneci Tnv. For he casteth away the things of mortals, next to each other:
Potcns fortune, how variable, You are so cruel and vengeful, And turn the good, and turn the wicked, NecferVare you can trust the services! Fortune increases the honors immeasurable, Fortune affects the harmless cladbus, those wars make men poor, Blessed are those who are unworthy of the same riches. He takes away the young, isrretinetfenes, Seeing the times by unjust judgment. That which is worthy of adtmtt, passes over to the wicked, Nor dtfoimen drink, reciaquejudtcat, Inconftant, fragile, treacherous, lustful, And those whom he clarifies, he constantly encourages, Nor does he press upon those whom he has carried away. And the infallible human con- The Gentiles looked at the wheel of control, this 5m5m each Goddess is now propitiated to men then, now believe the indignant Bant, Ovid stubbornly: The sixth of Juno was Menfis, afpice Tibur. EfPreneftina: maniafacra Dee. Hence in the campaign of business, her now with the productions, only with wonderful ceremonies they tried to appease Because indeed they were mocking, with what face they were fugitives he would imagine, from here she was born of the brave, de Orig. strong in which the foregoing, especially at Prenefttnos the origin of the ufitatas. Express for it is thrown at random, what begins while, what should be omitted, and how The system of business of the pts is a strong effect they knew each other. Sedjamund TrMieftma Fortune Temple exftru- (let us see if the beginning of the The founder of the Temple L. Corn. Sylla Fuiffe, Volaterranus delivers these words: Have breakfast in the east of the city Verfm, the author has Cceculum, Vul- cani filwm, according to Virgil. Strabo noiWs-icpaiiQVyVlmmsZTiCpcwovdictt, and at Pramefte from the Ientifc, the supply was posled. A call which the Greeks call Hpvov. Fe- but the old WMontibus prarftetfoyj- swelling HtcSulhdudecimhoftium mil- lia und with Marius the younger, And the temple of Fortunar condtdtt, whence the strong were sought, and among them Lithoftrota to take first, according to the author Pliny. And so Lucius Comelius Sjilla, named nis ety mon a Sibjlla hits, tefte Macro- bio At the end of the war Punicus II muminftituti exLtbrisStbyllinis, fua- dente Comelto 1{ufo, quipropterea Si- he was known by the name of Sulla began to be called Felix by a broken name fortune befalls you: the event you For, as Pliny says, a certain woman obviaeipuen, Hail dtxitpuer, to you and %etpublicly feltx, which pofted ampltks It could not be done. It can be different as well conflated, after Lugurtham, Mithri- when the kings were exiled, the land and the sea are victorious N wanted Phnius terranar L. Cor. Fortune; Preneftin ttmplum founded: it was byllini which books confabulate Sibyl di&Ht, pofl corruption name Syllabus, A T H A N A S I I Marius the enemy poft famous devi- (Hopeful triumphs in the city too much fortune while the Roman Empire was trickier surrounds, fpc fua deceived, [Puteolos con- ceffit, where phthiriafi mteriit, as who neither the corpse of Mani, cruel and barbarous he did not kill him, he spared him, he did not die He would burn himself with worms. Syiiaco-Sylli therefore ln the last thing hu- piFoS? eating the top of the manas, the Temple ipjf'- frimigenU Forluna, from every fe He was bringing the finished happiness, ad founded the memory of the hungry, that that such, whose magnificence is five, five infana: you will ftru&uram fpc&es, eo at the time nor more famous, nor fumptuo- his son had been alive, to use in the practical re- It was clear to him. Worthy among the camp wonder, may the various gods deceive bra, moregyptiacoexftru&a, tboHroton this Mufivi work monu- mind of incredible clothing, nio exftruxiffe him, a little before from Pli- it was clear Moreover, in the same way, he increased the mere Priesthood, Fortu? u ri- He prefaces the ceremonies of honoring you; sor- the urn in the temple's reception hall fu, litbostroto impofitat, to put it juflit, as this pa&o the people of all Latium, to for- He would attract those thrown out. And do not perish Clitantihus Nautis anything to the wishes deeffet, Pbarum feu LampademNau- he built a temple in the highest place of the Temple, as supporting the Tyrrhenian Sea, vifa Fba- with burning dew, with what kind of ceremony
They would recommend Fortma Primigenia. Let this tower rise to this day and every day, which; he was carrying a lamp, in which I Emin s Francifcus Cardinalis fupra praised Sarberinm, with the hujufmodi to explore the antiquities, he introduced Figure whose figures I have endeavored to put here. The width of this opening: , which the sea Tbyrreno ob turned, has spans, &i5in its length; but nevertheless it is not a bad thing, this Lucerne, vi- trca feneftra, to increase the light, fuif- fe intrude, as in the more famous ItalU K I R C H E R I it is seen in the ports. But now prxmiflis, accepted the monument in- interpretation, turn the pen mouse The ancient Ve rfarum Magi were invented by Arimazis JSgyptW edodti, two Numina, Arima-ii damm concurring in enmity, in the egg twenty-four Gods condidiffe, ex by whom both good and evil are excluded The world from the battle of opposites, now filled with good, now with evil, which then with two loYts barrels, filled with good and evil forces, af- they invented: for from these Fortune was born they feared, from which the human rum, and infallible Fortune, origt the wheel they deliver them to the Duke. O see book: The uncertain fortune of Voluhilis is wrong And it remains in a certain tenacity instead Sedmodb Utamanet, littusmodbfu- my brains And only conftans in leYttatefutt eji. Etc. DePonto: Qufdltbet ejfefolet, i? which is more inert wind Par ilh leYttas, unfaithful, is your success: Of course it does, doesn't it? whatever you like, For- and snatched it. Are you going? eftfubitb, in the manner of Crcefus it was Stalioinloco: Lnbrica iionferVat certain Fortune tenor Sedrotatinftabilem cacafubindero- ipnn.
I like to spread the smoke, Itbet the lowest tol- the way of things InqueYtcem no Vertere legeYtcesl Maxtma with bonaftnt, they are jamming next rurfus The greatest with evil, I will come next they are good With a strong heart, evil is twice as niifer, in pain Ke citb Venturispramoriare good. Of this and that cruel, incon- Fortunx, the fugitives of the dead tion V E T u S tc N O V U M L A T I U M. . tion, the old ones will be destroyed, the damage that Fortune has done to the people of Egypt temvariosfacrificiommritus, tumad fta remits. According to the facts it is eamattrahendam they found; And since the Goddess, they are unequally repaid. , Damna vero qua: in- controlling dreams, they did not carry the mind together, the threefold as well rcgione di- they knew, hence the projection of the mighty or fpe-immiP Temp U rich cx wild it is as if by accidental projection bells, fire teffellas from a certain wood confeclaru, will ten dikerent; which; the girls would understand, which hymns by which oaths, which they call, they would appease; be good, hymns, the luck of the fortune-tellers they didn't care, but the i, whose Miniftra Fortune they repaid Hice familias they plied; whence cus, rocks, families, of the velcamporum plains and valleys wild beasts; ; or sea, lake, sources, and relatives to ele- watery chin You see that diftinclas invariable fpcluncas, where "im bird hunters are perfect over the plains and mountains. As for once the Arcades of Hercules were at HercuHs Stymphalides birds with iron claws fse- temples and delubras to his honor, ad r? TiA t rr. tivw prz exaaam the birth and operation of Jo-mc, every kind of fowl damao- ptt. extruding the analogy of the roads, they said, fum, then, that with bows, with beech trees, with canibufquc then m A scrap of the same kind as the Egyptians, that of the Serapei they called, frmefte seasoned fuiffe he teaches and though thou hast the gefum of the wise men, according to that of Apollonius Variaftt- criflcia dm injected Fortune Thursday ttti- ttijlra. they were not saved by the Antiquispro figulorus Infused with the nature of the gods. use wax niajavaris, variafuifimentornm ra- tio, di verfo femper facrificant but not in the same manner the feats were carried out; for not all they were offering millets, not all the lights of the bus were on, and not the lights
fcmper ficbant fupcr fublimibus aris: never for a day; to diverge that for the clay nations more for the variety of times, for credit the nature of the rums, the fabrications everywhere they were offered; which is one thing for the coelefts, another for others tcrreftribus, one of the aquatics, another of the Gods they met in the underworld, whose other pri- by the way, other publics were made, and which quite a man of the Gods and did they believe the father so the others also the Deaf, affeclas fuos, For- tuna strong Domi- for I think, by the clay of the Gods they worshiped them alone. That's all in the monument painting of this master They are expreffa fpe&antur Eph but this monument is threefold adorned in order; in the back, me- long, and the lowest It presents the supreme Intruiii hunters are called, cxpref- Argonaut But neqtte as Arcadkm asked Yts Her- with the bow Ploides from the lake Volucres fiympbali- you give any 'Pellere Yipotuit, namaue boc I lumi- not Yidi Afl the same as pttlfaYit the rattlesnake in his hands in high Exiftens fpcculafrofpeclans, immediately she Leaving them far away with a cry they grind Therefore, to use this, itainrequisdam- nofa they alluded to the deeds of the gods. Go away rum with some mountains, rock of nations, cities, citizens that damnocnoviffent, Fortu- rut propitiation, that Hercules bene- They believed that they would be suffused with figs. See the rock of the nests of the slaying dragons iced, and pierced with various tunnels, the virulence of which, but many other things the damages they brought, the air infected and so Fartwue to those Her- with great force they straddled them. You see vallc tcs ttotent fcrpcntilnu great regions ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI tce, Gtfir fyntts Nacalus I ate mythology You see here the hydra, the irameifim of the lake, you see frogs and reds, with rottenness cta incftants You see the waves that emerging from the gaps of the rocks; which all allude to Hercules, who duc lovts Miniftra Fortuna, hydra in Lake Acheloo, cicadas frogs in Locride, because of coldness and coaxation He sneered at the moleftia for ever. Vi- goddesses, and while he was still wandering in his cradle, smiting their necks from him: namutre&e Count Natal in Mythology. Qt- rum made with Iberian ribs, and beef Geryon abducted, they say, Hercules Celtarum regionempcragraphe, muliofque impure and impure robbers or by monftra, Various fems fimifi- are sung, as it was written by Thefeus in the re- bu-s Corinthbiacts, d Theodore in Bel- lo Giganteo You see in this monu- on the chin of many foreign beasts the names of the pictures recorded, which The Egyptian charadcre fcripta fint, ea I was led to explain. CilNTIA Sphin-, Iacus marks his son's gem, which Suareius offers as a good use. TMIT" KPOKOTA2, is a monftrum Afric BOYC, the monftrum is Camelopar- If you were referring to the fub form or cattle ONOKENTAYPA, something else monftrum, from a relative man composed, it is clear from the etymology, although there is also an animal of this name Africans call humility bens hippocentauri JLANTEC, the name is Lacus, where Hydrxomnia they make, and pifces, and frogs, and water infect, as is clear from the figure, and no men ENHYAPIC, he clearly shows. SlOlT, marks the wild boar in Egypt famous, from XOIN City so di- while XOIPOnorAMOT, por- it signifies PINOKEPNS, Rhi- f. iyot- harmful What does ArEAAPOV do? cet, to find again not allowed, forfan croco- dilum, or other kind of Lizard indi- cat. AEAINA, lioness to note, it is clear from the Egyptian word ipfa. CAYOC, a female. AlNEperfepatet, use Anpoc, Tirpic, KPOKO- AEIAOC XEPCAIOC, Crocodile Cherixus Atquehxcfunt, which figu- you can see the names Although And here the same recenfitanominacopto char&ere fcripta, from these animals, what they ought to represent, transfpofitain with the inauguration of this monument I will find it to crack. Quix doftus Suarefms notes, also some of he expertly corrected them. So you see con- r O Serpents Lexnas, Lions, and the rest" already exposed, hydras five Canesma-
rinoSj devouring Pifces, Frogs, Gam- Maros, Monkeys, Dogs, Lions, Boars and pigs, devouring Tgrid ground, the like. Which is indeed different by fortune, who, like Hercules, or others to the likes of Heroibus, good and then, they noted, Hercu- Hcufes for the Stymphalidas aves, draco- nes&perpentes, hydras, Ninecentau- Dews, Crocotia, Crocodiles, Tigers give, Lynces, slay; Regions, ur- bes from such a pefte liberaffe, from fables it grinds For the Count of Christmas rat: Hercules, inquitjCK? n Thebes, and through the outer mountains tur, many beasts isr monflra, therefore Africa is wild and wild he did the ferocity of wicked cattle those who infested everything with robberies, ra occifione grande in tetramfortemcon- He turns; and to him all fub fymbo- with a kind of outline ras monftra, as the dust of the gods was, in The expreffa are seen in this monument. Nor should this seem surprising to anyone, with Prienefiini, a neighbor of Hercule Tybur- Pranefiii tine of the most devout, and the Temple-H]; his most famous in all Latium not in Tyburcino they would frequently live near that of Silius: mtifut- Hence the Tibur of the Catilletus, and made dedicated Luck? You judge me. accordingly In this Qurd birds dvmibm arboriculture infidels? Fana dtlubra time to fire urnafor of that more confident iu Pr; ene- I cried OLD N O In this Pnmigcntx Fortune loVts and the miniftrx Temple, so many of its la- bores Fortuna duke pumped up like the work of Mufivi's book to last forever, to honor voluif- it does not come as a surprise. Which indeed from Mythology of the ancients than fufiihme bring out the poffle, fi or my time lii fuppeteret, or the head of this quif- who finally was that artist, ex it would not be clear with a few hints here. . Vi- give, therefore, that through various birds mistrustful of trees and trees the losses of the air are known by the augury, which Fcrtttme fupplicant try to divert they are hinted at; by harmful the damage of the wild waters of that element, and by quadrupeds, and reptiles aversion to terrible losses Canda Dex there So now to the other side to explain progress the wall The other part, various fanas delubras Gods, Hercules, Juno, Venus ris, Diame, Cyntbia, Serapidis, who Prtmigeniie Fortmite Templi diftriclui attached fuiife fupra in e)us delinia- indeed Yortunne's temple A figna- mouse, Dtame B, Scrapidis T, ad quse Great fortune to the mighty of fc- legal, or unfortunate in the outcome of things to be supported, propitiate to the gods They took refuge there. The temple lumnis from ancient marble undi- supported by the qiie, and like the Egyptians also decorated with pyramids, fu- It was clear from his scene. In. the urn of the mighty was contained, from which as if by some good oracle or they were spying on an evil warrior. It was but Ternplum the most extensive, ve- tuftifhmuque, to which alludes Jii- sale of Centronia, Tiburus tPneneJie xdifying and conquering he said: Fortune and Hercules, the same. For Suarefius to use it was V U M L A T I U M. He says, "The temple has many religions in it. and a miracle was waved away; often for he was hunched over from all sides confdenttum, ibid isr fub image Je, Junt qutti optnantur, and from illt-s m of the temple funny oracles in fortibtts by Numerius il- p0[tuna; J J J jortium there you are Aren't they like this? bres images, who at the gate pli FortmU, which the letter A we live, crying like vows when they accept See Nautam SsM jud (ubfotmsiNeptune! tridentiferum, which a successful maritime expedition it affects vidcs fe- right people in two forums approaching, who from them as if refponfa ac- they take But already at Serapcus we were exposed to the sun mouse Scrapeum from Serapiae, prxcipuo JEgyptt God, make dead, whose worship, and the most abundant origin
in the known Hieroglyphic works we will write down those who, because of the oracles, who fed the multitude, co- piety, not only in Egypt, but native of clay, fcd throughout the whole or- bem, to use in a great vcrieration fem was through so also the greatest everywhere he left the fuperftition fertim ontie Prxnejlc, where Sera- Se. pea Delubra, fplendore fummo "Pte gyptw admmiltrata iuriie, m Obe- Rome; po- Ifci Mtnerlialu interpretattone fat fu--7 and through Why do you do this? Seraptdis is a great god among all he sighs in reverence, in Oedipus ex- we drank, that is to say, because all fe- legality they were repaid; for hence the abundance of cam- the pores, the ferocity of the Earth, the Nile adfcriptam, which Ofiridis afflu- they said to him, to emanate; b this hu- the fecundity of many shoots, bo- the affluence of all of them, the origin to have sex Oh trust me ATHANASIUS K I R C H E R I Larius Sci'3peo appictorltm figure JE- gyptittcee for Hiero Aditya of the Egyptians ptr monttm citiiicubt perfofftm inttieattt.
they boasted: you mention Serapis, who is the same as Ophir, adfcripta, as curiofiores %omanos he drew them into a manner, so that that Egyptian fuperftitition- forsaking the Gods of their country, every co- to promote the natu, figuti in the fuprd alleged Obclilci expofittone we taught, to which Lecrore re- I send fed in this record Scrape letter D fixed really Se- rapid trickery, hieroglyphics ca Larius, feu Penatium JEgjftio. mm fchemata, which; near the door They are seen to be painted, they explain the fat. You see Actipitris, the fupremi at AL- gyptios I say to you, you will spread your wings, and neither the wishes of the recipient smoke Look at the statues of the Gods humbled at the gates, protected by the Egyptians in the usual way You see mon- the neighborhood, with various tunnels an- three holes, in which the mysterious the magic tricks of the rum bant, and Hieromantas broke out from thence those who met the travelers to part inviting the flocks of Scrapidts, you arrive at the fpem they promise happiness which fuperftitiofos rites omant Tertullian brilliantly objects: Yes about the gods and the rest, he decreed yerant fathers of the same 1os obfe- you will redefine the quint. free pa- trem with myflmis fiis, aiiic Confules by the authority of the Senate, not only fed (f um1erfii Italy) Serapis, Iphides, i-r Harpocras tem ctimfuo Cynocephalus, I was Capitolio forbidden to be brought, that is, rum pulfos, Pifo ir Gabiniiis Confulcs not uttqv. e Chriftani, elterfis eorttm aris abdkalierunt base isr otio- the fiperflitton lighthouse you hts. 1os reflttutis fummam majefta- tem conUdtftts. Of which more see the act in Obelifco Minervali ab Alexander VII, Pont Max in the market Mincrvce. ere&o. And this was Se- rapeum by C. Valerius Hermaifus at The Egyptians intrufto, built, in the year you can use the from the register It is clear that the ivy was added from Suareii. Why, indeed, do you give Serapis so much honor the Preneflini were born, caufa there were various events of Fortune, which Se- Rape in Egypt in ancient times he had shown in fact appa- Renning God various fortune events he declared with this pasture of Safilides; with blind eyes, a priest from Vefpavian; make He revealed the strength of his faith; he- the Vefafia happy warriors ceffus with the Temple fet, he preached; Germanic Ce- the bee averted, death a little lo poft evcnturam, Ammianus tefte, he prostrated; and before Cephas Alexandria would be captured, Gentiles, and he published the wonderful Apts. Nothing is surprising, therefore, fos (prtzneflinos %omanofque, as For- tttnam, so Serapis dc future- confluiffe with the events of things. Of the rest of the Gods, and Dear See the temples of the most laudable Sua- refium', of Antiauitaiibm Preenefti- you Just follow the campaigns of ma- expreffa rhythmically in the Monument; , in to whom the smoke of the wishes
many people, who in various Mun- di Maritime Regions expedition ncs fuffcipient Which of the caufa Pha- the country was founded in the Temple of Fortuiitt, in which the fire was kindled by all To those sailing the Tyrrhenian Sea, mul and fpected, then soon de- of the oars and ships, Ded PrMieftina what prayers, what vo- tis, for the fortunate ex- they surrounded the exit of the expeditions. Vi- give all these things with beautiful help reprehensive touch the ship G li- where you first see the fixed earth how against harmful and flumi- well, then the animals of the sea tant, cujufmodi ibidem fubjecla vi give hippopotamus, crocodiles, whales Scra- in such a way at all winning tie Evcntw cx fortune Serapis push OYACIt- Ix. bee Serapis the same expedition ttes mttriti- I hold myself back Fortune; really Lighthouse PrEneftina in sailors folatiurn Fierce bifjjtopotii- mitrn ctinfi- Natt tat OLD NEW LAT Singtttt- imttpi whether exftli Qititt cuttmm pious, Ut] tune tff tmttta ctin- fpiatitm. AidisFor tun; e ex- fancy whales, and dolphins suffocated with beech trees. For they had heard of the best in the Nile hippos crocodiles with his gloves he carried the torches of Serapis with his vows The name Crocodilopolitano does not placate ri duntaxatj fed insured Although even allegorically through this bel- gigantic seas; men of courage tyrants full of cruelty, We told them that they would understand. follow there was a lusty ox tied to the plough, which the farmer intimulates, in which the JEfiyptians I wish you good luck in farming the culture of fucceff was fperating. But what? so many armed soldiers before the Fort Temple crowd? what palmx? what about what? what ampoule: ? what is the crown? why so many sailors to and fro? tranfmeantium boats? what avian they are seen fat on the monument, fibi He wanted to explain it. Mythologists tell, in the expedition among them the ancient seafarers above all having conceived the vow of Neptune But the successful campaign of the voters citer tr-anfa&is compotes fa&i, the generals put down their shields, as if in peace wreaths and palms in the vicarage he offered a son-in-law; for the sails of the ships at the Temple of Fortune they drank wine. Here: everything beautiful figures in this monument tificiofa tcffulati work pidfcura expreifa are seen You see the arc, the work S on a rolling wheel; extrude form d; um, to whom Fortune trusted his vows anceps, in whose approach Neptune a tooth with a trident scepter, and a sailor sheltering a roof of ver6 crowded with birds, what else? notes that from the chirping of birds as an augury of business were they practicing auscultation? To contemplate ctdem Fortmite T sails fum, Delubrum V exftru&um, am- chicken stuffed with wine. See Z from the deluge, the military a candlestick of so many, in the purse vi&oria See in the cave rolled up the crowns of the urns of the strong offering, in receipt of benefits rum review You see the sea whether the sailors and the sailors no vessels coming out, poft par- returning with such vigor you burn You see the aviary which in the diftri- And the Fortune of the Temple was destroyed, then for performing auguries, as well as for birds to each God than, before the campaign in they would sing lymphce in the bath lotion they were carrying out You finally see the arc that work P horticultural art, fub which Tofiarmtti agentsquidaliudnotant choirs, that in the a&ion of thanksgiving, pceana the singing of the ears, and the joy of the soul fortune favors the brave fpere pofteapera Clisrebus, let them relax. But don't worry about anything let's see each other confirmed by the testimony of the authorities mouse We said first, the arched Delu-ExpimtU a thunderbolt from Neptune, to which "Upmat sailor: for happiness At that time, the brothers flocked together, it is true this Neptum Delubrum effe, ipfe Ne- ptumus tridentifer together with the sailor ce fat demonftrat For as My tjhologists
they want, the great-grandson of your mother, Neptune risj and the rest of the wet, vi- tmPlum- the delights of seas, rivers, and lakes obtains dominion; that wet an element that is strange in nature it becomes impenetrable, and the most powerful yen stirred by the winds, so fkvas tempefta- then he stirs up storms, as in cxlum now to raise the waves, now the same it seems to sink into tartar; fre- but I was a gentle bull's bellowing, which Mughw And they were offering it from the cup, at first, fortune varied: fymbolum, indeed the sea is treacherous deceptive na, impenetrable sea inexhaustible fortune as Lucretius says: O No io8 ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Prophecy Fortune Crypt of the faithful DcM tfi jejuifapro vision various deaths such a force cts dt caufis vtrfat He could not placate anyone cia Tonti S ubdola skin under naked smiles from where Whence the Nauts in Adem Portuna a&a happy sailing tes, covering the veils of the Temple, they poured wine and wine, which; the bottom marks But all this from various sources see thoribus colle&a at Natalem The count was carefully registered. But about procefion in Dea; the honor of the supporters infatuated read Tlutarcbum, Soiffardwn, and of other things, abstain from rites and ceremonies rum writers Proceffionepera&ain games were played, horticulturally intricate rice, other that the shadows of the trees, Homer tefte, Thebes appeased their anger with poetry get Through all the lights a beautiful poem is sung tcs Singing Phccbum: they were buicmulcebant PeSlora sang And these are, which; of this noble in Vrceneftino Fortuiice Templo even now I was told to say fuperftite Monument mouse Wherefore, indeed, so much was he wrought in it everything is prefaced, so that further inter- they do not need payment; with or without dxiraipfa, whydeainnuerint, easyfe it bursts out. Fortunately, everything is old they adfcribed, like, whatever He would support the mighty mortals. But I am all divine providence I don't know how to rule, nothing like fortune I really want to drink fed name ip fum tribute fuiffeFo; -tweputarim, as wine from God; with powerful thought, They were put to the sword, and they were brought into the trap the name of the lamentation cia, which; light, and foolish, and unrighteous would be called, they would throw they were made, why do things turn against this mnes should happen, and those against nothing it would turn brown He knows the crowd Dominion of human strength butor juftus, why this poverty He presses his majesty with honor and divinity He raises yours almost to the level of confidence; why others with continuous storms of infirmities let him exercise, fortify another with the strength of his strength; why other kings, princes, nobles con- He despises others; strong effect tat These are not the games of Fortune, fed admirable and indestructible Divine pro- vision: to be attributed to difpofition, who The world is made up of opposites! so also the various strong men, which ipfe difponit, effe willed. For if all Kings, princes, nobles, and nobles if they were, the world would perish. Not therefore powerful, and in a higher dignity Fortune's wings lifted up by the riches of the nation, with propriety like Fortune to one's own let them glory in their strength, nor various. Fortund of prefessor they think that the cry is true; easy for a rolling and slippery wheel fortwice, which had moved to the bottom, little by little to the bottom, he lowers the rest to a high level. Here are the hidden judgments of God, fed to those who know better fta- then Evangelicx Dodrinx veritate il- The soldiers are contemplated, near it Apoftoli: all, quipieliVere1oluntin why Dtt Chrifto Jefu, they will endure the completion. The wicked is exalted, the wicked is brought low: why because to beatx immortality God chose to finish the glory Max. near the prototype of Filiifui, at the end patiently bear the tribulation of the cross so, a great weight of glory cannot be given away may; but the mighty Fortune, in this life all earthly goods rejoicing in abundance, let us make good use of it there pronounced near the truth, bo- norum cxleftium, felicitativeque xternx
to use extorters so participants do not pof they are And these are the blessed of those who Forf; w, what noncafu, casual, fedabx- third of the benevolent founder of noftri You have been blessed by the faithful was The gospel truth of both For- then for example in Epulone&cLaaro teaches well, therefore much acce- rather, it should be finiftrx Vortunce chance to the man of the Cbrifti maker, how fluxes humanx OLD tk N O the abundance of human happiness, when I will return that joy at this end you were a lasting supporter let the bus be promised. Of course not only by luck temphm famous fuiffe tell Autho- res, fed Serapides neighbor Fortmite fanum, according to fanftiffimi Mgy- ptiorum Serapei Alexandrite exftru&um. It is true that the etymon, the origin, the cul- then, ceremonies, fuperftitiofafque ob- fervanties together with hieroglyphics equipment that was written tur, fufius noffe had trusted, let him go to Qedi- pum, nor that of Obelifc Pampbilius part, which of Ideit Hieroglyphictsvn- it is written, and the rest of the OedtpiTomos conflates; and whatever about God it was very abundantly carried by us then he will find, as a consequence, a fuperflue Let us repeat this. At this point only to add the living Epigra- phenGracam, qus tefte Suarefw, ex by which we wrote, in the Temple of the Annunciation tte, vafijquodaquxluftralifervit, in- cifa is read, by Valerius a certain Hcrmai- ji, ,mmca-Jco Itens to the older ones, especially We present five current ones. F. Bahi- ZTtoiwiv cvnaoic Ssofg- id eft, C. Valerius Her- He made Serapius the great Sun God Serapides s-Dtkaffeclis. On the other hand the registration continues here with the words you: House of C. Valerii Hermaifci, Tem- plum Serapis, Shola Fauftiniana he did Valerius Hermaifcus gave Antianita- Idtbm Dcc. Barbato (y Remlo Cojf. And he conftat from the Faftis, hofce Confucius les fuifle in the year founded by Vrbe A similar entry in Oedipus And Oblijco Pampbilius together with hiero- We have excavated the glyphs, whose title was: crwSpoW? roigh Aiyv'Joi"soi'( '"magKfsvg dviQnxs. Fuitte Pne- nefte baii! icas, forum, ftatuis innume- tts in ntmta. V U M L A T I U M. icp [ris unadorned, facing still indi-
cant. Here Verrim Flaccus was colloquially I would like to paint a marble He makes public the beginnings of the reeti, he gives rise to the erection. Pnenefte, as well, the loricated ami&a the toga, with the head covered, was removed by Manilius under this title, MANILIUS PROMILI- TIBLIS, WHO CASILINI IN PRVE- SIDIO FLIERINT, VOTU VO-; He lives Here L. Miani was caught, as it were I was a concubine of Polyhiptor with merited glory ri can L. ELIANO L. F. AN. PROVINCIAL EQUUS P. ORNATO LUPERCO DESIGN TO THIS ORDER OF DECURIONJ He decided immediately L. Elianus Verecundus L DDD There are several others: registrations the infignia gefta ftatuamerunt, which Sfa see at Suarefmm. And as a fub com- pendium rcm contractham: Tranejle femper from its first origin tes] the vicissitudes of things were confused. For Fub Herilo the leader of the Sicans de- ftruda, then gradually infatuated, in He took over the colony of the Albanian kings, a Latin Sylvius, the fruitful King of the Albans Afcanii Poftbumr&atKDuce; which ad aliquotdurantefecula, 8dnfuafe- at last years ift excision, as hajc, so cxtera; all the thirty Latin cities of Albano- rum j, together with the in- the colonists attack the Romans rium Indeed, the Prince of Tarauinium of the Latin priests who were outlawed %onue triumphal, is taught by LiYw. No however much he wants, Tarauiniws Super- bus)3. m e&us, and from the Roman Senate no advanced, novisfedionibus cited, not fecus as Tarauiniws Prifcm Tarquinii avusejus, feDucemLatworawcontra "ba. in the Synod of Florence in the year founded by the city in Hence Sextus Tarquinius, as told by Lucretia to wring out the smoke O tur: ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI He lost his mind; however, meeting Fe- rentinx coafto, again against the apples the Latins concluded. dus, names, they gave an oath
were: ftf tur: If you will, you will command me Korm- nis, Latinis, Hetrufci. In the year from Vrb. Cond. ijj, Coff. T. JEbu- tio P. Veturio, Fidence obfeffe, Cru- ftumeria captured, Prmefte by the Latins Hedgehogs 'Boytllani, newsletters Koran Cornetani Gabin, Laurence, LanuYtni, Latin- Quprurn of all the leader, head King Rommos was OclaYtm Mamilim Tufculanns, jun- ixptditm. Whom I was at the hearth of Tarquinius Superho, who He did not intend anything else than to make it huge having been prepared from the Latin army of Poma- we, capital fuos hoftes, fperecupe- randi Regni, would be adored. fed from praslio near Lake Regillum a&o the vine ran wild, every fpe the head they fell out of erecting any more, peace ad years old Sedannourbis condit2E3fp, the rurfus failed Pr&ne- Jltni ex-confederation against Poma- we began with Velitemis, then with The wolves and the auxiliary troops of the Satri when they attacked, the savage inca pts to practice victoria: fed visit- together with Veiiternis Volfcifjue Under the leadership of Camillus, there was a great destruction of the vine in the year City Cond: %omanuM. t fubdide- run But in the years before Neftini, while the city is burning cTions, with no army and leader in ftrudamgnofcerent, train dere- LaYtnienfes, Latin, Scajtlini, setin TSLomentani, Tellini Norban Vrcenesttni, (footballers, Tyburtini Tufculani, Trehani, Querquetulani Sutratcdni, the Veltterns Various Pvaenefti ours Fortune repent of the fado that has passed through the fields directly, bring me to Collina they say, The panic of the Komans lest, with what fa&um it is fipato, souls in union jun&iSj ma- gna vi by the Didator Ctcinnatum They worshiped the Prceneftines, whose vehe- lies: the odd city left to the river Alliam, as a place of Pomanus from nor the fatal victoria of the Gauls, caftra lo- cant. But 'Pomani T. Quintioduce nil fearing the empty fpem of the court violence rushed upon them, as at first with all the relifts, they were forced to be fugitives 0{oman, nine first towns jurif- supported by the gods and goddesses, then they also intercepted Prceneften and so I returned to my mother, my fimulacrum loYts, where he was cultivated, intrium- pho brought, in the Capitol between the cells They placed IoYts Mtneftice, with this Epigraph: JUPITER AND THE GODS GAVE ALL THIS run AS T. QUINTIUS DICTATOR TOWN CA- PEREPDIE But maybe ten years ago the warring Paleftrins, their necks a little hot they support me But I do not know what March they are having entered into the spirit, the yoke of the apples to learn the nefcii$ in the year Urb Cond. Moving on foot with the Tyburtines tcs, there the faith of war against the Pomans they were crushed But a camel from Lance Furio conquered, and cultivated, the apple in They have taken the Capitol. And this agreement they continue in the faith of the orchards: when against Hannihai of Pcenorum Leader V E T U S N O V U I met the leader in Cafdmo in such a strong way geffiifent, so that the victory of Pcenus was defeated to remove the ebidion co&us they were given to the municipality, and to the army The prenefiin Roman Senate was double ftipendium, and five years' service: He decided to leave. Councilors and the Pnenephtines were also honored with a function From the inscriptions it is clear and they were numbered among the Decuriq M L A T I u M. iii nes, Quafftores, yEdiles, Duumviri, , Flamines, VI men of Auguftales, Cura- tores annox, curators blici, whence the Decuriones and the populace Colonis Prameftin ban A huge con- see the gerium at Suarefius, which fum- mo ftudio&injefeifolabore exparie- tinis Prseneftin" fummo Republica: Literary; eruit emolumcnto Tfepojh C A P U T V, the season of Pncneftinx Llrbis Statu. time Oftquam S. Pelr. us Eccle- I am a Roman woman the ugly will wave, not content with so many and so much in unbelief condijijjc born in darkness and brought up to the truth bring back the light of faith: fed pro offi- cio from Cbrijlo ipii impofito, let me take care into the universal world through Epifco- pos, whom I have divided as Vicars not even the word femininity but all the world
the extended parts must be cenfend for the Pnenephtines were neighbors of the city by receiving the divine word he knew them, there in his own per- fona fc contuliife, ibidemque Prame- fast Churches; , the first foundations ciffe, Pneneftini from the continued tradition lest they hold it for certain, Monafterium in at the end of the mountain yoked together with the Church He points out to DivoPetro the beard; in quote To the great Gregory the Great, men from the beginning by fanaticism and religion at any time he should be awake, and he would do wonders he recites At least the amae of D. Peter was caught in say to each one of the Ecclefia, of the smelling while I stretch out, to which Cbrifti the faithful with the heads of the fubmiflies approaching, in the same way her, by whom and to-day I will bless her with St. Pe- the three iri Vaticana Ecclefia will meet venerated, with clear information touch. r Verijm quanta D E U S by men He has worked for the saints, here he is alive to put one of the miracles that St. Gregory the Great c. Dialogue. recenfethisverbis, &indicl: o S. fetrt %jji monajlerw contigifle ait: Prameftinse Apoftoli monafterium fitum ejl Yiro- rtmiDei, whose relation adbuc in Mo- (says the great Doctor) audiffe happened to me a big bo'c, that I tell a miracle, that the same Mona- The rest of Monaebi nojje Je tejlabantur. In it for Monafterius was the father of YtU 1e- Nerabdis, who once married Monaco trients, and moved to reverends things, and him, when he was in the fear of the Lord excreYffe, in the same ftbi Monafterio then He made the priest to be ordained, to whom pofTordi- I will give birth to a nation, because it will not be far away, e. g the issue is indicated by revelation. A and he asked the great father of Monafterius, in so far as he would grant him, as a fiepulcbrum he would prepare to whom he answers, in advance I die fum, fed tamenyade, isf as Yu therefore it was done pntparaVit not many tb poft two days Jinex open, fever pne- slowly, he reached the extremes, and he said to the old priest, saying: in your faith put me in a beautiful place, when he said, because I am the only one who will carry you, he will not be able to take it. Abbot immediately rJ'pon- he said, saying: do so, as I said, because fepul- Your cbrum does not take both of them. Defunct therefore, and in the same fepukbro, which The priest was ready for her, soon after I also languish in the body of the priest Jequutm ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI tti. fcquutm efl, the faster the languor grows prcsbytcr YttamfiniYit; and to fcpul- cbrum, which they prepare for the fibi ipfi, the body illimfuijfct afratnbus dcjortatwn, open codcmfcpulchroYulenmtomnes, who ade- rant, do not eff the place, ttbi could be put because the body of the father of Monafterius, which had previously been eaten He was holding a sword. And the brothers, who pre- byteri detulcrant the body, licndi dtfficultatemYiderent, one of the cor He cried out, saying: O Father, where is everything? I said, because both of you love that he would call out; to whose place Jubiti cun- Twice Ytdenttbm Abbath's body, which there fefe in latcre, Iwcantemjepulcbn place, to fpclicndum rPrcsbyteri's body pntbuit, isr because every place that place ret, ficut YiPm promtfcrat, morutmtm- filled smBi Among the rest, however, Ecclefia: Preme- s! Agapi-ftina' Eumina was especially fond of S. Aga- lianus the Emperor, the chief of Antiochus the mayor of the city, a boy of fifteen rum, the manly strife of the Heroes quo- while he gained strength in the fields undaunted ariimo Chnfli love that is, without any other kind of artillery with a sword He was crowned Tyrian, September bris: whose vitapudomnes, who de The vines of San&orum fcripferunt, to meet you will find They came out and thence Sancla Herund, qua: fandtiifimam in the wave of Trieneflins played di- and he had two disciples, demptam %umula fcminas fihdti- tate life: illuftres, whose bodies Tybur tranflate, in the Temple of St. Lawrence, three archiilis inclufa requiefcimt, de in which fequehtibus. de Tyburtina Mention will be made of the antiquities of the city: But
I have already said something about Epifcopis Prameftini let's say CHAPTER VI, T)e Efifcoyu Trcenefiinu, ex Suarefio Hughello. ffip Rimus Prameftina: Ecclefix Epifcopus, whom Ecclejtaflica Hi- WLM flourished the Scriptorcs mcmorant, was Felix, who fed Mdcbiade Bridge: Max. the condemnation of the Ceciliani Donatiflafubfcripflt January, (Edente Htlaro Pont: Max: Roman Council inter- it was attended the Roman council by Symmacbus Pontus: Max: coa&o, tem in which Boethim lived. . Maurm, to whom against the slanderers Pelagius Pont: Max: he gave a diploma, whose beginning: Velagim Mauro Epifcopus Prxneftinus Scroius, whom I pardon of Monaflerii S. Madardi'inGallia (u. hkiipuue, exaElis by Mauritius Auguflus. Majoran, in the Roman Synod (tib Martinol. Pont: Max: coaeH, contra Monothelity fubfcripfit. Stephanum, son of Agathon Pontus: Max: for the profligate of the Monothelites Scrgim, fub Gregbrio II, Pontus: Max: in Sy nodo Romana against illicit ma The trinity was written under the reign of Leo III. Venantius, amValcntius, Roman Synod: fub Zacbaria Pont: Max: in Gregorius, or Georgius, diploma Vaulil, Pont: Max: anno Conflantini Co pronouns fubfcripfit.
And Arin: Chifti OLD NEW LAFLUM. Put the tiff W c ottfe he obtained a cat, so that he was scarcely a year old He unfortunately died at the time, Gmoriut indeed divine: indignation manumob unworthy of the prxftity of the matter soon he has experienced For to use Anafiafiim re- he brings, he cannot drink for many days, prodigious infirmity to all trusted bris, the right hand also with the intrument of the And here came Epiphcopus, who Conftan tinus, brother of Guy Kepefinle Ci- the life of the leader, a great force of soldiers in. storming the city, with threats of torture EpifioZ 1ue COi'ns P"1 Laicum pramiffa confimns the first tonfura, and cxterif Ecclefiafticis steps in Epifcopum, then also ixfmi the affliction of the Episcopalians of Albanenfis, to use this faith in the hearing of the violence of Pontiff I Stephen, a deacon, is said to be worthy of mention. Andreas, who died in St. Epban IV, feu V, Porit: Max: lived, fub Adrtano I Pont: Max: to the Vefiderius King of the Lombards Miffus Intera- mnes as from the Roman invasion; Ecclefie would restrain him, even for them intent John, who took part in the ecumenical Council of Nicaea, under Adrian I Pope, cxA&cConstanttnns cunxIrenaAi-. gidtaimetfuexunt against Icono machos Conftautinopolitana: Synodo fubfcripfthis verbis: Mercy of God, S. rPreneftme Ecclefia: Epifcopus. Stephanusjntctfmt the confection of St. Sabator of Annina, in the field of Moaloncnfi. Constantine took part in the Roman Council under Ewenius II.
Saracciio- From this the faiths of Ecclesiastes prevail is vacant, due to the enormous calamities which &c(PKomanis 8i(J The Saracens, who, by a sudden intrusion, neither %ome, nor sparing the Temples, in reduce waste Theophylactus, who was a Roman conciliator against John XII. attended Stephanum, Prxneftmx Ecdefix Epifcopunr, table: Sublacenfes ex quodam Vetrus II, from Loanne XIX to the dignity of Cardinality, PraneHina Ec- loanncs, who, under Leo IX, dedicated the Altar of St. Agatha (pome. Bcmardus, abeodemLfWiefuffeiaus Htigoni Pfaiio-p pefcbijm ticifaclio fiqxc vittt "Bruno, Prteiiesi: Epifcopus Ltopardus, by Alexander II another year Vbertus, Pope Gregory VII dedicated the Altar of St. Andrew in Ecclefia Cecilue And Agnet em Aitgufta, the most religious mother of Henry. Httgo, in the time of GregoriiVlluizGuibcrto. Archiepifcopo Mttepfeudopapafub nomine Clementis IIIad Car dmalatum Ecclefice fedem edus mumEpifcopum, HNicolaus is damned; quodefundo, new fcniima ordertus, quo Cadaloum VallaYicmum Varmcnfem Epifc opum ad
He endeavored to raise the Pontificate, while he was still living as the legitimate Pontiff Alexander II he failed again and again, until he became a refugee at Wormacia, and was no longer a leader P planning; o8o ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Cunonii life Qf death Srcphanus tx Mona fall down Epicopio, lit, e ftn. Eiitatt in- Fig. St. Gurini faWtiita plotting, perfidious in defiance and treachery, an unhappy soul Bermrdm, Cardinalis legitimate Prmeftinx Eccle. Mtlo, from Vrbanus II in Prcenefliiue Ecclefia: fedem eve&us, who Pafcbalem II Bridge Max. he made Berardm, Bene]entanm, a. ! Pafcbalii, Vont. Max: Vraeneflinct Ecclefrx fuf- Fe&us, having returned from the embassy to the East, dies immediately. Conrad, having obtained the Cardinalate of iVafcbalell, the Council of Quaftallenfi in- Cono, five Cuno, Germanm, exEtemita Canonicus Regularis, then ob vitxfanftitatem from Vafcbalell to Cardinactum eve&us, HcVrceneftince Ecclefia? prxfe&us was, who Hterofolyma, prophetus Henry V, Ec- clefix I would betray to various here and there both in Afta and Europe, co&is con- The glory of the greatest gays is celebrated for the least number of labors Ecclefia Dei died in the dead. Guiliehmu, a Gallic nation, from II, Pontus. Max. Cardinality in rank and having been given to the princes of Prxneftini, he attended the councils of the councils, magnifqm He died famous for the gifts of God Stepbanm VS. Bernard's disciple, the monk of Clarervallenfi, from Inno- centio II, Pont. Max. promoted, became famous as a fan The Gallican Martyrology says thus: On the day before February Catalatmius in Campania S. Stepbanus Epifcopi Confeiforis, who from Monk Ci- for the great fanaticism of the Pope, from Innoctnio II The Cardinals were chosen as bishops, and Pramcftinus was created bishop. He enlarged the dignity he held by the wondrous ornaments of his virtues, of which Sa- risberienfis: Who does not fly the Episcopal VraneWtnum, who con- fcicntically afraid of the participation of the common goods &t'mltta It is said of St. Bernard, Vrctntfle had the glory of all the Stepbans: a man; Gurinus, OtA: Reg: Auguflini, {ucccnritStcpbano, cio II, Pontus: Max: fuffedtus; The bishopric of Vapienfem was offered to him and by Lucius II. fratravit Ecclefias, whence, famous for his miracles, he went to re-number the Sanclos side eft a Tio V, Pont: Max: Oiit lPrtnefte in fepulchro S. Agapit lol fearing Adrian IV, and fleeing Alexander III from the rage of Frederick Bar barojfe, ipfi 'pomance the administration of the city was conceived, how&in He died in such a perturbation of the times that he governed most diligently. Manfredus, who had been given the dignity of Utramfjue by Alexander III. , was present alone from the cardinals, who, with the Pontiff Alexius, abjured Frideria Beneredus, five Berneredm, in Manfredilocum iifdcm dignities fuffultum it was made by Alexander III, Order Bernardi Taulus Sodolinus eCanonicus S. MarixMajoris Cardinalis, then Epifco- pus Prameftinus by Alexander III. Clement III was rich. Mainardus Gallus, Monk of Ciftercienfis by Clement III was given, and in the same year he died, to the sorrow of the pope, John io8 IOpZ
n8i Frederick EarbarofTj Imp: aby. rathfaaa Venice. PrimHSatt- Thor Ceri moniapyU funny cam cloth to body Sunday reverence ncm OLD NEW LATIUM. Iodnnest Counts Sign Attdgninus, po{iadepta. m Cardinality digni- tatem Traneftinte Ecclefixpraful, AlexandrilH partcs conftanter de- split, and he was one of the Cardinals who abjured Venetm from Fri IVido, feu Quido de Tare, Ciftercjenfis Monk and Ablias, then Arcjiie- pifcopus bemenfis, poftea by Innocent III Cardinalis Epifcopus created frtmeftinm, many prxclearly famous gifts, he was responsible for his ce- rimonK, which in the Catholic church to the elucidation. Dominic's heart of pores and blood, and while it is being transported to the gros, the bell is pulsated.
Nobts donatus dc culminc Tontificatus t This man, cut off by Quido, lies transfixed, Why, the Roman Pope was made Cardinal by Cleim III, by Innocent Bp fcopus Prxneftinus, died a life worthy of all praise. Ouido ex Nobilibus Orvietan regulus, by Innocenlto III Cardinalis fadtus, zb Honorius vero III Epiphcopus Prameftinus. Jlafii, adAquas SalVuu, Ord: Ciftercien: poft by Gregorio IX Cardinalis Stephanus, Hungaros, Archiepifcopus Strigonicnfts, Ahbinocentio IV Tra- after Ecclesiastes; prefect Cardinal Ficedominus de Vicedominis, Tlacentiuus, Ord: Min: ArchiepifcOpus Aquen- fis, di&us Cardinalis Epifcopus Prxneftinus, fedent Gregory X. Gerardus Cupalates, Placentinus, a. Nicolaus III Epifcopus Cardinalis Prane- soon after he was elected, he died. Hieronymus Afculanus, Ord: Min: Generalis Minifter, a Martino W fa&us The bishop of Cardinal Prameftinus, and finally ascended to the Pontificate Berardus de Serardis, elected by Nicholas IV Epiphcopus Prameftinus, died. Simon Seaulieu, Gallus, Monk Cifercien: Archiepipheopus 'Bituricenfis, eleclus Epifcopus Cardinal Praneftinus from Catleftinus V, died in the Old City. Theodoricus Eyncriws, Urbtvetanus, Archiepifcopus Pifanus, from Boniface cio V III was elected to the episcopate and: Cardinal Plera: neftinum, died. Vetrus de Anablay, Gallus, Archiepifcopus Tholofanus, bordering on Galicia, a Clement V was elected Bishop and Cardinal PrxneftinBm AVentone deceflit Gtiilielmus Mondagofus, Gallus, Archiepufopus Aqucnfts, by Clement Bishop Cardinal Prameftinus is elected: Boniface VIII inrDe- He was the helper of Cretalium, the most helpful of the law, and famous for many works. Deceflit AVenione fub Hanne XXII. VetrusdeVrato, Gallus Epifcopus soon Aquenfis, ilodnne XXII The Bishop and Cardinal Preneftinus were there, and various delegations the bus stops at AVenione. %aymundus de Canilacho, whom others call Deoddtum, from the Canonical Rc- gular Abbot Conchenfis, then Epifcopus Florenfis, wanted Archiepifco- pus Tholofamts, declared Episcopal and Cardinal by lnnocentio VI Simon de Langan, English, Abbot Wefimonafierienfts, Ord: S. Benedi&i, P Archiepifcopus izoJ.
3ZI ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Archbishop of Canterbury Chancellor of the Kingdom, Gregory XI fa He was the Episcopal Cardinal Preneftinus, and he died in Acnione. locinnes de Grojfo, Epifcopus Lemo)icenfis, from Gregorio XI Epifcopus Car- the dinal Prameftinus is declared; here with Antipapx Clementk parts He advanced against Vrbanus VI in Gallia, and was defeated by Avenion in the year Franctficus Tregnantuex Archiepifcopo Ptfiano in Epifcopum Cardinalem Waffumptus of Prarneftinus by Vrbanus, Parifik deceffit. Antonius Cajetanus, in the Council of Pifano, further conceived Ecclefia Prxnefti- for Vidom, the utilitarian-cardinal-legitimate, is sought by Alexander but died in Guido de Maleficco, Gallus, Epifcopus Lodelienfts, poftea S. R. E. Cardinalis, by the grace of Gregory XI femperfaviflet, finally repenting of fate, PiyZyrelidofchifmate, cumfa- Cro Serihtu elected Pontius Alexander ftinus fa&us, from loanne vero to Galltam, on account of serious business Anglet de Anna, a Neapolitan, monk of Camaldidenfis elected by Vrbanus VI And the Cardinal, with his vain embassies, I am deceflit. Hugh Lijignanits, brother of the King of Cyprus, Archiepifcopus Nicofle, i Martino V ad Purpuram VQcatuSj by Eugenius IV Praxneftinus Epiphcopus, died in Icanncs from the Counts of Tagliacotii, Neapolitanus, 7"mifw; w Epifcopus, from All of them died famous, buried in Ecclefia of St. Augufimus. George de Flifco, from the counts of Lalanue, Archkpifcopus Genuenfis, from Ntco-, lao V Cardinalis and Epifcopus Prxneftinus faftus, died in the year and day uncertain John of Turrecremata, Ord: Prxdic: Cardinalis S. Sixti Epifcopus Tbiliipus Calandrinus from Saracens, from Cardinal Epiphcopus Prixneftinus, from
Angelius, Cardinal Gtbfimica, Epifcopus Prameftinuscooptatuseft; , Sixtus IV fedente, Marktts Harhis, Vcnetus, Cardinal and Patriarch Aquilegate, died, to loannes 'Bafoes, Gallus, Card: S. Sufimna. Epiphcopus Prameftinus from Taide II. a faclus, deceflit foweode year fepultus-at S. Traxedum be Episcopus, died in Rome, and was buried at St. Mark's. Hieronymus Bojfus deuvere, Sa1onenfis, Card: S. Cecilite abAlexanderVI Laurentius Ctbo, Genuenfis, CardmAemAlbancnfemjumihPraneflinteHccle dx, died the same year. AntoniottusfaUaVtcinus, Genuerifis, by Innocent io VIII Cardinal Ecclefius neneflince fell, died thence they were carried away by the people to St. Mary, after they had been removed from the old Ecclesiastes. John Anthony of St. George, Ilacentinus, ex. i{cono Cardinali ifculano Guillicmus Brifonetta, Gallus, Bishop of Maclonienfis from Alexander VI Car- dinalis fa&us, managed the Ecclesiastes Tufculana and Trienefltna, Charles
i44i Qttonis Qari: Tmchfes Germany outstanding UnS. OLD NEW LATIUM. Carolill Regis Gallut ConfiliariuS, sometimes a lulioll purpurafpo bound, by Leo X. wearing the same again, he fled to Narbont. Marcus Vegerius, Savonenfs, Ord: Min: slIhIwII Cardinalis Epifcopus Confused by Prameftinus, he died %omt at S: MariamTranftyb'erimamk John Serra, Hifpanus, Archiepifcopus Arborenfis, by Le one X Cardinalis And Epicopus Pra: neftinus, deceiIit (owj. , fepultasapud S. Iacobum Hi- fpanicsNationis. Francifcus, Card: Soderinus, ex Epifcopo Albanenfi Praneftinus fa&us. Alexander, Card: ex-Epifcop Cardinal Tufculano Prxneftinus Anthony, Card: de Monte, Epifcopus Presneftinus. brother, Cardinal Accoltnes, Episcopus Presneftinus. Marcus Conielius, Venetus, Epifcopus, died in the same year. Laurentius, Card: Vuccius, Vlorentinus, Epiphcopus Praneftinus; died %omt fepultufqtfe Minerla. John Viccolomineus, Card. ex Epifcopo Prxneftinus Vortuenfis fa&us, eo- that year Boniftius, Card. Ferrer Laurentms, Card: Campegius. Anthony, Card: SanfeVerinus. John Vmcentius Caraffa Alexander, Card. Francifcus Cornelius, of Venice, decapitated Viterbo, by tranflating Venice with his body. John Mariade Monte, from Praeneftinus Epifcopo to the Pontificate eve&us Bourbon, a Gaul, a region descended from Fanguine, born in Ec- Franciscus, Card. Ctftut. Cbriftopborus, Card: Madrutius, Trentinus. Otio, Cardinal Trucbes, Germanus, a. Vaulo III. promoted; Hugh Boncompagnon, who had succeeded to the pontificate of Gregory XXII He wanted to be named, jurifprudence: ftuduit, confilio, prudence admirable, the Catholic religion in Germany against the Christians leus, %omt died and fepultufque in Ecclefia de Anima. John Antomus, Card: Sorbellonus. loanncs Francifcus Gambara, Romt deceflir, fepultufqueVzto: zz'ad. S'. Ma- M. Antonius Cohnna, Card. deceflit Rome loannes Antonius Santorius, Card: deceffitRo? f, fepultusin Sacello Ecclefia: Alexander the Medici, Florentinus, to the Pontificate and usnomen Leozi XI he deserved it. Auguftiiftis Valerius, Venetus, decefllt Romt. Afcanius, Card: Columna, MagnusLiteratorumfautor, literarum ipfe Antonius Maria, Gallus, Card: St. Lawrence in Lucina. GregiTetrocbmus Montelperus, Ot-i: S. Aug-AStxto V Card: effedtus, died P Romt
oz i? c5 i(fo8 Ilfll i8 ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI he was buried at St. Augustine, in the Chapel of St. Monics. !BenediBiu, Card: luftinianits. Francifcus, Maria Card: de Monte. OciaVitts, Card: Bandinus. Andrew, Cardinal Terettus Dominicts Cardinalis dymnafitts. Marce Htv, Card: Lantes. Quido Card: BentiVoltus, Ferrarienfis, whose virtues are all Orbipatent, dccef- Anthony S. R. E. Cardinal Barberi nut; to whom GOD Opt: Max: obey outstanding merits of a long life gives They could join more here. Ve- which was most abundant in the former Prameftini It is advanced in antiquity. Le&o- We left the matter to him. P A R S The lava or with pro- mifcue at Or maybe fcripnm reprimanded Villa Gor- of the Riians V E T U S N O V M LATIUM, P A R S I The region of Labicqrum, Hernicus, and others in the heart of LATIUS the coast and the origin of the towns. C A P U T I Tedum, Gabij, Labici, Ceeteracjue omik N Via whose great cu-. ii Martuts was Curator, Praneften led, and was frequent fepukhris cele- bris Among other things, Vdlam Gordiano the rum in it, which is great centiflimam fuiffe lulim Capitoliims re- brings, in his own words: House of the Gordians still exists, as if Gordianus He decorated it most beautifully, and their village Vta two hundred columns in having tetraftyl, of which CaryftisE fire with green marble, and rivers concolori, Claudian Synna- give white marble and purple maculisinterftincr. Numidica; equal menfura, in which the hundred-year-old bafilicje; three the rest of the suitability for this work, Bath; , such as the city and now, nufcjuarn in the world. llbi- namverokecfueritvilla, cumeorum no movement is perfect, it is difficult cast-burn Some people think that in instead of fitani fuiffe, where only Vtlla Vam- pbiliomm, commonly fpe&an- dam fe prsbet, and cast from co- the trees were uprooted there, not a little near yours; they also think of the Columns of Ecclefis we collect also Atta Maraftellus places in it. fitus today to this day Gabioru fim'c among the Authors"- even with him the wounds had perished; The Way ftina between Preneften fitam fuiffe, it is clear from LiVm Dwnjfto, ob bclla with the Omanis gefta a great fibi at the pofteros nomenpeperit; I'm fed up let us inquire into its origin. Appianus Civ. bell 'hfiitrai Yd(ing n Kj nopnm. (Gabius city eftmedia Rome between Praneften. j To whom Stra bo fubfcribit: Ta%tot tto%; tI ITpw- ttritn oJa xetfjSp iipatrct to tm ac f i (c ncttng-a, afe{ sxarp ra- that is, (the town of Gabius on the road Vrxnciiinyacens, with the interltallo water diftat a lloma Pramefte, fire ftadio- rum that is both ways. ConventitDiony the son of Hifce in the words: It was a storm, the winds Colonta of the Latins, the Albanians, way Prameftina, a hundred years from Rome fita, which they called Gabios. Since vctens h LoanmsLmranenfis ferpenti- itaqueumftadia, duodecimmiIlia see, adnoyEcclefiKfabricam. Fuif- miles diftet re8 de and the most splendid building From this it is clear that he was drunk in a square two hundred round about, from the sides of the clay a hundred miles from J%oma Pnenefte dif- a suitable place, the town of Gabios was determined born Quifnamverohiclocusfueritex bus5o, great pretn&irfigenens menfura of the modern millenarians the marble column must be determined. Note that nt. Here also somewhere fuiffe Eccle- cLor, two miles of ancient times iiam lanuaru from St. Gregory the Great Undc ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Whence the interval onyce that once thousand, according to Itine- rare Anthony he showed, once he was hungry, on the day of no nili2oautzi he diftats thousands. Hinc others think, Giwfuiffeeodem in the place where today the noble Colonnenfmm The castle, commonly known as la Colonna, on the mountain im- polished others from the ruins, such as CltiVerius, they gather in the same place where they are today public office generally, the works of Finocbio, it has been done; which is not washed away by the with h. ocfPKoma Only through oil ftet, as much as the previous Authors di- cunt, and from the huge ruins, which there they are discovered by the earth it was clear to me. But the fuifle The princes of Latium let them worship the others; yes Komtt- litm Kemum, poft education from Acca Laurentia Fauli's wife. fael. am, Numitorcm Gabios mififfe, and there fe- Creto literis and all libcral dikiplina Dionysius, Plutarch, Hateful, they abhor. Dionysius in these words He will write it down: indeed, it is a baudtota
the city is drunken, the faith is only part of it, The road is frequented by divers; at that time populofa-erat, fiquaaliaamplaacfpa- cool it is permissible to make a contcclur from fig edificiorttm ruins pafiim exiftentis isr I was surrounded by mctnium, qtice and bodieque they are part of it. I wonder how much these laborious journeys through Latium confe&is, from the words of Dionysius indeed it was permitted, I would say that the prophet Tufculo miles Yia Tyburtma, no far from the lake of Wegillo, where just vififair bofpitium, commonly l' ofleria delFinoccbto. As much as Tarquinius St. to take the city of Gabion having labored in vain, Va- erius Max: he will write quickly. But for that the fenilis of Tarquinius should accomplish not allowed, juvenile Tarquinii" it was finished at the end of the battle: for here r r Vmm imitating the anger of my father and his father. Gabios, where he fled to Aphylum as if composed by flattery, that benevolence: to the unlawful, of all tra&is ariimis, most of all he will obtain the authority of the Father concerning the matter fclicitly reminded the girl, who in the hor- the heads of the poppies are cut off with a stick he wondered what he wanted from his son, velutihiero- the glyph indicates a certain fubobcure he lived, because the city was under siege, and The Republic: the heads are partly in exile cushioned, partly completed with braided head he puffed up. Circahancurbem Grffficapta Gabiorum. r urtsfimdi- But when every effort was depoiuil- fent, and they received the same flight, Ca- fj' a thousand du&u auppicioque caftris obten- rtliquii. I have inflicted such a terrible devastation on you they are, as Livio tefte, not even a messenger He was left behind &ipfatan- that of the fxvitie of civil wars he died, so that he would not fly away indeed it is perfect. the mouse turn mat. C A P U T II Labicum, Pedus, Scapfia, Pupinia, towns of old Latium. Lavicutn. j Avicum, feu Labicum, Gabiis i old age par, the Albanian pa- m riter colony, from which LaVi- the most famous name of CanaVia obtained, in the wayfrttneftinaiimmiwt, five thousand fathoms beyond Ga- bios in the place where the town is today Sihitiijue vulg0 Zagaruolo, jurifdidiomPrinci- tlu pis UdoVifti fubditum, on the hill garolo there are great ruins of old age. in- fcriptionef ibidem pafhm invenue, and Strabo explained that he explains slowly, although he is not ready destroyed Some in that place, who Vahnontone is said to have been relished they fear; true when against the reports of Thor, let him remain that in that place, where that is not the end urgent The feet Pedifitm it is known OLD NO We are satisfied with the urgent reasons. LaYt- dogs with continuous wars re exagitafTent, in the year of the conditx of the city tanclem town illorumao- wawc Didtatore of the soldiers with a huge crown surrounded, fcalifque captured, colo- they did so, and of them They received tfjugera, utiL; fcrrefert. Vedum, an ancient Latin principality a town of rum because of the continuous wars, which; against the Romans geffemnt, iScriptori- the most celebrated of Roman affairs then fuum he had: where, however, is controversial is, nor does the matter differ ftantia, as to him Autbores Sc TabuU Iti- they attribute Certainly between Tufculum, book LaVtcum mcdium locum te- nuiffe, we gather from Dionysus LiVw, who call it the neighbor of the city. If- Indeed, Livy, where he speaks of Marcus Coriolanus he is doing, said he, having conquered the Circees, across the river by means of transport to Latium, Sabricum, Longulam, Volluftiam, Poftea Corbion, Vitellia, Trebia, LaVicos, Pedus cepiffe, caftris to foffas Cklias the fifth from the city of Iapis to whom Dwnyfius Plutar chus, who LabtcoPedummoviffeCorio- They say it's lame. For when Pedu qua- A thousand miles away, Clelia was exhausted LaVicum was a verfus, foifam vcro Clce- I am five thousand miles from Rome diftitifleexZ. iWojamdidicerimuSjCer- you her at a distance of nine miles clearly pa-ter because of the remote so Then he took the place of Tufculum
It occupies the middle between Tyburcus. I while the investigation of the futudiofa I will carefully examine everything, at last I came to the place which today Ofte- ria delt Ofa call, jurifdi&ioni Stro- The fubditus of his uncles, whom Ofa fluVus prxterlabitur, qui ex kcu Regtllo ori- He brings down the river to the banks of which huge numbers of people The earth was destroyed, partly still destroyed. fpe&anda of your parents and this instead I know the Vedas what is in the center of the triangle, qUOd' V U M LATIUM. Ilt Tybur, Tufculum, and Rome fitu fuO accomplish: although lo- co idconftitifle want, where just the town while fed who more diligently Compare the authors, see bit, do not be afraid to say that, when Rome is more than miles away. This town, therefore, had many divers feet b. ellis aMarcio CoriolanoGallisdemde, ST"" Tko Mamercino, Phi- lone Coss. otherwise agitated, tan- dem by Camillus DicTatorefcalis tis, together with the Prxneftino of the Tyburtines and was conquered by the auxiliary forces was, to use from a certain Fragment rum Confularium triumphumum a To the leaders of the Romans, that still in the capitol, we say where is it found: L. Filius SP. F. M. N. CAMILUS COS. PE- DANES AND TIBURTI BUS AN Scaptia is not far from that, Scaptia: ancient Latius a FeRo&c Vlmiocelebm- then we put the town in that place, which today is commonly known as the Daughter of the Stroians Longhea, near Anienus, is seen, four by miles. Plinius brought Namuti to the Scaptia tribe called from the name of the city Scaptix, which They lived in PMkwzin. suburban so- that you see in the field of conftitiffe, is clearly evident. Q, 'Pupinia lil ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Pupinia Pupinia; elimfwtt. Pupinia opftdum, five Tupinienfs ager, of which frequent mention is made by the Authors becomes In this, Decius was supported by Hetrti- ria &cAniene, to rebel against the ma- to break the chains, he will write with confidence LiYms: Hannibal every time from Herni- in the field of LaYica, and hence Tu- the territory of the Gabians tem, in the field of Pupinienji, o5to miles pafluum at a distance of {oma, caftra po- Fuiffe reports, from which it is clear that this each country and town in another place it was not said, but in that place, where To-day, going to Tufculum, the hofpitium in the middle between Tufculum and it is a quick trip, and a near fall; ur- twice they still offer not a little; although these ruins of the former Pupima I think that the city of Lucullan is fed from the conditx of lust, and lust at the time Fridcrici Barbaroff's destruction, the walls I would blow my nose with more support: for this op- lice, which today is million: pafluum oma diftat, once od: o, with thousands of ho- in the minor days, diftitiffe from LiYio We gathered a little before the quotation; when it is about Lufculum, that is, not far removed from there, confirm most of our opinion mat, that between Vtam Latinam LaYica- for it was made into a fuiffe; no information I am sure that the lean land of this land was once used today, because of the cover with which tur, a lump of fterilefcent conftitution. For it is important to use Varro; In the Pupinicnf field nor long trees, nor vines ferocious, and no ghosts to be seen poffe, nor figs: lest, plants, mufcoffa effe, who ftabilit Columella l. c. M. Atttlium egulum Cartba- nenfium Domitor TupinU pefti- lentis fimul exiled the cultivator fe, as hence Valerw Maximus refer- You, Attilius, the dead prefect, to another He will ask the fubmitti from the fanatus, not to be carried away gro, all too to feed the family am I fum fubfidius dcfieret De carte the river of the town of Latius at the foot of the mountains Pnencstinorum intevTybur Vrenesten it will be said in the fuo place. Furthermore, Tufculus pro- going to Yia Latma, first, to use fu- We have already said that about Ufculano field we would deliver, he next met Robon. ria: today there is a place called La Molary whose rudeness is still visible there Then came YtaLatina Algidus a mountain together with a town below it: ho- day occupies the place of the hofpitium, generally speaking
Oftcria, three miles beyond tfobo- rare, celebrated in the temple of Diana. It follows poftea Corbio JEquorumorrjidum, Algi- Corbio. do Hortonne confederate, that He was an excellent fighter against the Omanis gefferunt until finally, Dionysius Li- Yioquc tefte, by Horatio TulYillo Dicla- the tower was taken and destroyed, in the year Urb: Cond: Ultra I live Algidus fuiffe it is clear to the authors of the exdicl: is: per for this approach was open to Aigidum. I say therefore verifiably, this in that place, where the town is today fpe&atur, commonly called Montfortino, Burgbefio- rum fubditum jurifdiclioni: for this He was a neighbor of Algido, not far from this by three or four miles then Vitellia also Hortondt at Vitdlia, a r r Honona. I mention the said Authors directly, who, without a doubt, attacked Algis China was, between Labicos and Corbion greedy this Marcus Coriolan Dio- nyfio tefte cepifle, LiYius is responsible, whom menftruo ipatio Dionysius had already cited the victory carries Horton, on the other hand, was more from Vittellia verfus montes Prteneslmos declinaffe is collected But here on the map more clearly are explained Bola is also the town of Bola. Whose neighbor was I here, what Poy? we have finally suffered great losses took the rum, between Pranejlen and Labicos hilt But this and most other towns give from Lhio, Dionyphos, Vlinio memor- so, already their xtate left no one left they had died. And this is about med- let the priests of the Terranei towns of Latius be busy. And these are generally the locaprics of Latium from Tybure Ctrcejum and some others at Vum Latius Population faith ift learned OLD NEW LATIUM. among writers of renown, in which nor are they referred to by other Authors, a Pfiwo recenfenturpoftdi&os popu- neq; ubi, atquolococonftiterint Losaliicomplurium oppidorum, quar j can They are nevertheless common names Caufee, o some of them what did you do? more and more mulocave tuftate ft- imlta li- they want A bucket, a bucket Tifata, Foretii, Querquetulani, Amiternum, Hortenfes, Sifolenfes, Aaenfs, Manates, Tutienfcs, Abolam, Macrales, Vernttellani, Subetani, Mutucomenfes, Velienfes Ventulani the more it appears, the more massive the pon- Timperi "Z" their last fall was made by the Goths that to Sixtus V, Pont: Max: z4pal- they trusted in the depth of character. And- it happened here that the rains and fields wet by floods I covered the torches with sand and mud They would gradually produce the mufcum, then herbs, sometimes even various bushes, vir- and they produce bulrushes: the roots of which gradually increasing inftar cu- of the neous, the wall bands are in minutiof fempermmutiorefq; separate parts and hence I fucceffu in an easy time Thus concludes Tlinius, cx anti- in which Latium peoples were left at the end of each stop the rushes, and I will not be at any time their fate is known to the fuiffe. Quseri, therefore, may not undeservedly why or how they perished so much, as not to they would leave me in a hurry Uli refpon- God, that many times because of the caufas accidiffe. First, because of the civil wars with which nothing is spared, so with fire and ice god everything was gradually destroyed run Second, because the with the naked troubles of the wars stirred up to live a quiet and safe life they would not see it, leaving the town in another place they transferred, or from the my mother was allowed to live there are, for instance, of the Albanians, the LanuVtnis, We have said nonsense to others. Thirdly, because quency peftilenti; , which: none at the time Latium was very important to the inter- he harassed the nation everywhere, which cities and the towns were widowed, the people little by little the way of final destruction to break He succeeds heretofore uninhabited peftilcns and heavy air in which town the field is full of rum, you want everything He took away the people of their inhabitants, to use them most of the maritime areas, Ar- goddess, Lawrence, LaVtnius, OUik and others we said And hsecraatioeft, curha- bitarit ceflarint At the end of the wave if they perished, it seemed strange to any one
it will pop; fed quinorit, how much time the consumer can bring about changes in things, he does not He will be so surprised: for such is nature compared to the huge masses of fa- bncarum, as fucceifu time so much let them trust, not to say a hundred, years fpatio, fed decade quic-) registration will be done they are covered with clods brought from another place; rur- smoke with the falling leaves every year nova terrenarun quiquiliaru fobolcs is gained, it is certain, the increase of to the earth for many years so high, that scarcely the mass of the waste let them appear more, that the daily mc experience taught, in most places then %omt, tuminfuburbanis towns ruins for in any place a little you will dig deeper into the earth, at first, no just rubbish, fed Scattered housing until you find But Fufius will talk about this elsewhere. There were towns of the Wolfs, Satricum, Voicw. occupied, in the midst of Latium, de which in the foregoing; but two op- pida Vorrugo Ecbctra hax in Herm- in the field between Fcrentmum and Signia in the mountains: she is close to him ma, Antena, a town of the Wolfs as well in the mountains Dereliquisoppidis Vol. the most abundant in the AyiPomtinide- C A P T ii4 ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI C A P U T III TeAgno, feu Tgione Hernicorun. Anagnia JM. Anto no money tmata Anagma of men ilhtjhinm country Emki a locis fcopulofis faxofifque, qua: paflim in- they worshiped, I was of appeal the etymology of the brave: is for near the tongue Marforum Hernia nothing else but a fax; although others let them say, this name was given to the Capita- not a certain Telajgore named Her- Nico and although these peoples were among the ancients The Latins were not counted, because yet from the beginning j ugo Latium latefumpto they accept the law; includes that all those peoples who of the mountains of the Albans on both sides of the river they lived which among the ancient peoples Anagnini, Ferentii were famous ni, Frujviates, Verulani, Alatrini, who for a long time the most terrible with gefferunt manis wars, of which see Livius, Dionysius, and others. Anagnia no less in antiquity how to celebrate Hermcor with the things given to him it is a town commends when he says They worship the Hernkafixes, whom the Ana- gnaia pafctt To whom Silius wrote. Who p. fat supporting Anagnia you can't read And Anagnia glad of Frugiferus twice In this city M. Antonim, if he re- Fulvia Augustus was married to Cleopas he will marry a tram to his wife, his mistress He forges things made for honor: also of various kinds the famous wonders of LiVtum there, whom you see; so much so the magnificent glifcente of the Omani Empire tia, fummo rages in honor, fed de- growing up because of the prxclariflims vir- the gefta of rum proceeding from thence, enormous in no time famje celebrity which retards growth. From this with the four springs of the Pontus, Virgil from her fertility doces: Innocent III, Gregory IX, Alexander IV, and Sonifacius VIII. In- nocentim indeed III, uti Gracorius his nephew, from the noblest juxta and the most ancient family of Counts, generally from Conti, they traced their origin. In Gregory IX the prudence of Stideris is famous He was responsible for the decrees, which; from the to the letters and conftitutions of the Pope with different councils and fen- they were filled with tentacles; Apotheopheus with honor he affected the Order of St. Dominic. s. at home Founder of the Preachers, S. Eli-Hifibnta Saniftos related. Alcxander IWonx. iaurDhms with the like ornaments of the virtues in- rek it is fixed by Ecclefiaphtica; Hiftorice to the birds Boniface VIII. from the noble Boniface lamilia of the Dukes of Iajetana, pnmus juiiUi He rejoiced and celebrated. which rite of desire commanded the cente- old man also tation of fcrvar; Sixth Decretals Compose the book with the help of DiYi Magellan was; at last by former own kinsmen Anagnia patrin fua captured confnatuf- that into the hands of the Scittrrd Columnce of the enemy the ptivity of the fate of St. Angelus in Calf. Moreover, several Cardinal Eoifco- he had a post at the end of the number; today it lies carried, and partly petted, partly
the destruction of civilians the light of which redu&a when asked, they will respond, both ways they admit, they want to act indignantly, which 'Boniface VIII Cbnjli Vicar in Anagnia betray the hand of the enemy they run, by the judgment of God, against all evil God and Ion's generation fe perculfos fuiife: already for with love which, now, by the fires, you have just been investigating the troublemakers of the city, the languor of many tainted, the city is in wonder while to each of the entire families cxftir- mtificn mcarccrati death great car thank you V E T U S NEW LATIUM. Afflicted with cxftirpation, never in Paul III from the country of Epifcopus. fbe ad to bring forth the dignity of a priest
bearing now They carry ttta Fru- inone happen warts potair Whence the sin Anteceflbr um carry those used 'J mine light, the head of so many evils trusting in God's mercy derent, from Clement VIII of sin com- to wash off my feet, and they are called obtinuiffe; to be clear from here how much may God punish those who with the mind of the Lord, make and dotibufe DEO made, maxi- and I am his vicar in the lands of violence lay hands on them. Certainly not at all the hiftoria is read, such avengers D E I hands evafiffe To" According to Pliny, there is a spring near this city celebrated as a robber in the town, named Tofanus, a. ftivo, a copious flow of waters pours forth, and makes a river, which in Liritn fe exonerates, about which things We will do more with the Latiiinhl phyficis. But at an interval of five thousand yztiuum Anagnia, on the hill fe fpe&an- while a noble man of old Hemicorum is boasting the town of Ferentinum, commonly known as Ferentinus, of whom in many places Strabo, Dionyphus, Antonimts, Ptolemy, tan- from the town of Hernicus they mention bram. Natives Tullius Ho- the third king of the Pomans jeciffe traduntfcriptores, who nevertheless ju- go shake live by your own laws ma- they shined, as the citizens of Pomano mcro adfcribi Followed by Ferentine Frufmo Hemi- coraw urbscelebris, graviabella geifit with Omanis. In this LiYm tefte prodigious the size of a baby it is said; the lamb also with the head cino: but in later times the rise of the two Pontiffs he acquired the mother, quickly Hormtftx S Syene VeruU is not far from here the mountain becomes an accessible town, one of the priests of the city of Hernicus The ancient authors celebrated; big JEneas Pbtlonardus gave birth to him Pdjie, e]uf- qttevita
rerumgeftarumgloriaclarus, fummus femper, a supporter of the literati. This neighbor met Caftrnm Fu-Caftrum hand, the name of the prison Ctleftini V Pont: Max: who first Peter Maronus he was called, he deserved; here from Eremitica He was doing the full thing, after twelve Cardinahbus in the Chamber, at Ponti- made by Charles V, King of Naples favor, affumptus, AqutU mitra. hot nia died, where reinovcemiraculodu- hundreds of thousands of people convcncre; fed best man fan&if- we are more born of folly than rc- busagendi, by BcnediBo Cajetano Car- dinal pcrfuafus, who wanted Bonifaciits and he was fuccefor Ncapolt abdicated with the tificate almost entirely true, even when desired The world was moved by the idea of fandom he wanted to draw faith; Pontiff Bontface Schifma pre. vertens, caught in the cufto he enters the diam of Fumani, where he fan&iffimc died, but Clement rites fummamquevitsefanditatem and patience incredible document The number of fans LzgrfWretuIit. Alatrtum is stretched from here to the ancient Aljtrium. mum Hernicorumopptdum monti im- appetite of which, when they were confederated Effent Anagmms, Ferentims, Frufinati- bus, Veruknis, Aktrcnfibus contra Pfomanos, frequent mention the Authors of the fraud. On the other hand but the chain of the Titculan mountains The field of the Hemics extended far to the west runs first from the town of Tufcul Montfortnum, that we old Cor- Signed once the most famous city, s, g, f. how much Life gave him a smoke when I was born
Itanus Pont: Max: Cantus Romana. Ec- keys the infimtor of the organs; Again Laurentus Grana, Bishop of this place illustrious in every kind of virtue, an orator I was easily the first of the time, and therefore Q. held
tif. quipri. tnm Pf. il. taodieta he injected iiJ ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI OLD NEW LATluM. WmoWa hold; memory prxditus, as whatever Lauremius will read it from memory frog vert)is would refer. Wine too v, mm Simmum is much celebrated by Strabo Signum UndaiUt. Tlinio we read, given to the first; whence Martialis: 'Thou shalt drink the liauid of the lingering Signina the lens That they may not be too proud, it is made of such a pctrca. you become And here are a few things about Hernkis they can
L A T I I LATIUS PRICIS L I B E Of the Antiquity of the City of Tyburton, And the smoke of old magnificence, where? in the ruins of the villages still in the whole Ter- they are discovered in a variety of ways, and multitude P R JE F A T I O Kercateras, the cities of Trifci and Latium, of which many
I endeavored to explore the stream of smoke, but there was none certainly, in which there are so many indications of the old magnificence They offer IjpeHandafe, than in the City of Ty huttim, me I confess to being offended, so I spread it a little more that, -some other times, I was boclocodefcribendamcenfuerim Sfe Dionysus, the enemy of the ancients, who had founded Rome in years tejlejuperatfjhe place to relax the minds of powerful men We will fpeUe, we will find, nulkmfere from Tfgi, Confuli, Cxfaribufque %mianufuiffe, who was not at times distracted by his immense cares with them, and the bulk of the affairs of the Empire, they would be yekti should be established in a convenient place, Seducer) let the truth be clear, in order of protection, abejuJdemprimteVaorhine, and we shall say the times of the adulterous starch. Sorry Ty Burtini clap your hands P A R S ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI P A R S I C A P U T I T)e Origin of the City of Tyburtina. Onftat tefte Dionyfw Hali- ($SjiXk carna! feo Gentem BUr%- '"Wl 'otct, 7ra. hcuuTe&v, ii eft, primcfDos poftiluvium ho- the threats of Trifcum Latium we the Gentiles, the Greek writers, the Sicans they call it, of course from a corrupted language Chaldaica, where the priests of mortals the threat of the flood, while in various the coasts of the world, to serve as new colonies to be given differently, they were still used, de- the riyato votary of the skans. "Ojd Se- ganl a 1uo s, cam vox not much abludit, in Cbaldteo it is the same, and popu- two straps, to be used in this work at the beginning, and Hctruria noftra than We conducted a very large These Sicans in Latium prifco has many roads errors, on the Tyburtine hill, five aqua- abundance of rum, five very fertile fields Sicily with the fertility of the town, which Stcilmm they called out, they burst out. Yes Dionysius ictx oi? sn V fo x%ow 7J 7f6te(S)J AtoiV. And that town today it is called liano, likewise founded by them fuiffe, several Authors not in- they find suitable plots. These Sicans and therefore in peace tranquility of the good enjoying the lands, crawling from Pelajgi$, who together with the Aborini in the fleatine Anro O t v. O fresh from Cnecia was the refuge of the fugitives they had stopped, the violence of the weapons in- with the exception of a few, the whole of Latium was to surrender Trinacrij go to Trinacria, from which: Sicania was called to them, and they contributed in vain About which because in the first work we differed in part more abundantly, that Le&orem let me go There is not much else for Gnecor he landed in that part of Italy as Dionyfus says, nearly sixty years before the Trojan war, prophesied a Novapa- they are busy Cotton Tallantio Urbe Arcadid. Colo Euander brought her, Mercurius The Bemids, as well as the Carmcntam of the they called, the son: Ca the son of Ampbiarai. These are from Ionia at the port at which they had landed, by long winding roads, at last in Latium, ad the hill, which from the city of Pallantius Arcadine Tallantium, the Latins longed for the Palatinum montcm, the first %omane Vrbis cradled "Bula, they said, "were crushed. From here Ca-
fzYiVcaftrafuamovens, to stone verfus mountain, there with Abori- and with a few remnants of the Sicans nation, produced three sons, Tyburtus Cattllum, Coracen, who together with the nation give, than by the name of the elder brother Tyburtus, they named Tyburtus. Tybum's heart founded: , intended for others, Coram in Volfco- He founded the Rum region; so Solinus c. Tybur Catillus founded the profeclm Claf- Are you Euandrea? For Catillus Amphiaraus son, I put my father's prodigal son at The- basinteritum, OecleiaVijujfutres libe- ros in Italy produced, Ty burtum, Co- ram, Catillus, who is depulding from the town SicilifE yeteribm Sicanis A nomine Ty- Burti's oldest brother called the city run This happened in thirty years the arrival of Gatillus Major in La- the same with Evander, and for the same number of years before Ilit's excision, as ex. . prxdich is clear. iybur lgitur name he got years, five that t"! ta. the door, by giving the clay stands, juxta the mind of Dionysius years. For Ca- years before the Trojan war But when the soma is prepared, it can be poured out gnatum counts years; tefte Dtonyfo. Poft Iltum captured years ago Albanians
OLD NO Albani %omuli jmi dudu colo- niam miferunt oz; in the first year of Olympia From Trojte, however, I cut off both to Olympia years are counted, which bus mncti who from Olympiad ad and they flowed in each direction, the same years fpatium prodit hifce il junxeris years before the conquest of Troy iia- you will drink the smoke of years ago Oma the foundation on which this is done are, namely, in the year after Creation tion of the world, which occurred in the years according to the law of the Judges of the tribe of Manaffe Euphebius' account, ann. before Amhon Chriftum It is true that this com- nhntu. put out, who in a strange way between Au- Thoresdifcrapat, let it be decided; to be done It is different from Gracia to Italy. footings, which: yet all from one Velafgo originfuamtrahunt, which &egoaliumnonfuifledico, than from and the son of Hebri, whose copiofapro- The image of the tower and the confusion of tongues ham Jion into the neighboring Peninfula, which then they called for new ones the foundation of the colonies, he penetrated, in which from descendants of Vhaleci, Velafgus rio- I was the omen of the Hebii, holding back the Vhakgica V U M L A T I U M. M, Nefi Duxisrhabitator, had a son mine Lycaonem, here twofliosqm- rum prtor isr natu majorhiy&rmus pa- a pinch of temperature admuuftralnt; the other under the name Oenotros rcliclo fratn imperio whence Ocnotia separated from him. Voft fiihThi. years They achieved harmony, and there through five, ages spent by the Lelegs de- new abacus, set out on an expedition into Italy in the spring of the Padi they confounded; de- thence they returned, where fortune took them, advanced, through the Shadows into Reatinum they conceive a grove, where the Aborigines who iy ipfi d Janigenis orti, kcohjun- the nations, with one accord, the Sicilians whom the Sicans apply, who to all the Sabians our isr Latium beyond and on this side Anie- even as they dominated them, they were fedtbm they forced the furries to flee. Hifce Wi- tur poftedinfecunda expedition Grxco- Arcadian rum Catillus, fresh from cia Evandrea: Claps prefeclus, fe con- joining, tbidemtresfiltosgenuit, Tybur- then, Coracem, isr Catillus, who noVam built on the hill near Aniene rant, the same d older brother Ty- appealing C A P U T II Do you belong to the House of Catilli? From the kingdom of Laius of Thebes enjoying happiness while free he would not have dew, of the same kind struck by deuterium, Oracu- the light is flushed, the better it is cffe, ipfum not to have children. drive He said, however, that Lajo could be found at will son, who, as the Oracle had said, verily the strong son's fmiftram, pierce him tispedibusexpofitum Campis to inter he left the rite; yet innocent
with the child's commiseration, he takes him out The women were taken away from the fields; to whom Lybiai ordered him to be nourished he named Oedipus from his pierced feet. Laius may therefore have lived for several years He was greatly excited by the knowledge of fcendi, what was being done about the son: by the same Oedipus burned with betrayal would understand Whence both
gnotus, Laius the father of the sons of Oedipus, hk de the Oracle of Laius's father fe tour girds. But it happened that between the narrows of the mountain I met him, while he was about to retire, a quarrel arose, when it came to arms, the unfortunate Lajns was killed by the hand of his own son having died, at the end of the Kingdom re left King Laius had a wife R hcaftmh ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Sphynx fcnigma tick Jocaflam by name, the mother of Octipus, who when he hears, Oedtpum a certain gma perardus propoil by the Sphinx fibi then a wonderful fucceflu folviffe, and adebque several travelers from death, as Sphynx jEnigmata a fepropofita not was trying to escape, liberate; Octopus ZriL; . in recognition of such a favor, ma- I was the mother of Jocafta, Nefeia Io- the chaste son of Oedipus was born. get to know finally, from various coffee grounds kinship, Oedipus' mother He was ashamed of the admonition, as if he had renounced a human being the strength of the race, the voluntary Etheodis li0 reliao EtheocliJ&cfolynkiSimiws. asbiftria procreated, already grown up, reign condemns Eteocles entering among the brothers pa&o, as the annual reign pera&a al- he would succeed three times, He went to the boat. But since the year has already passed pfo, the duke of reigning with poison he would not give King Argis was drawn to I was the son-in-law of Volynki in the country of Viola. commiffacertiorfa&us, irafuc- Cenfus, Etheocli, stirs up the war, the felphites to this end Hippomedon 6c Vartbe- at night with the strongest leaders. But because would see, at the end of Ampbiarao tate conjointly accepted don't poffe to be strong he invited him to comfort belli from the oracle, (he should not go to Thebes, in that verb for he was warned to die be disappointed stealthy flight led, no one close three times Enphylen wife of Ampbiarai, So- the dew of Adraft, in every place, I finish Eriphyk, wife of Volyn, offered Tafibi from Argia, daughter of Adraftus, golden ca- hold the evi&a, the hiding place of Amphiara's husband He discovered that I had been, and was soon at war with Thebans the mass of fua authority with which prayers, with which threats, I am golden trusting in the chariot, while fighting with the mighty ret, en horrendum di&u, fatifcente the land, swept away in the abyss together with the chariot abducted never appeared, in- Etheocles and Po were killed in the same war lynice, and all other princes Alcmaone, Catillus. Illc Apollinius having obtained the fupremus of Arghio empire, so much that Thebes you, armed with such violent hands it is futile, that at last all deviations citatifque, also huge and he carried her to the last exter- He brought about the downfall of the minion, Eriphylen. r t CommutQ also the young mother, because AmfitUrum. the pbiaraum hid in the hides of the oechpi as the only cause of unheard of death fam, no mother's support moved by commemoration, from the middle he laughed. Finally ipfe Alctmeon, five, whistling more vehemently with fury inflammation of the brain, five exempic perpetrated by the cruelty of matricide batus, in madness, wonderful At the end of his life he concludes. Oecleus so-ociei ptum voiaginc, Eripbylen nurum fuam appropriated Aixmxon the matricide, the nephew in the mind captured, univerfxdomus (ux ftirpem, the fortune of the betrothed; cruel punishment tus detru&am, Callillum mtu mino- Amphiara son of Pholemni that is to say, having made a vow to God, from the native town after all, he broke it: whence he desired it. this pa&o made, a name among the greedy to earn, to earn; youth, to use re&e Dionyflui: iioa, TiC CVIVi VSOVHC Colmimtm muideio-a 3-soic, ko. to. tov cJTnugiov iofiov vsra t oijojVticra, tUu aVo cv. fio-
o-(pio-i(S, oZrrio-oy$pluj. (Hifucrunl quttdam Diisfacra, Ju1entus to his country rite X to the parents to settle down, the tuna was to be given, faith. And so Catillm Amphiarai fiius utiSo- linm he said, after the prodigy of his father The destruction of Thebes, together with all the rest, ver scumbags, leaving everything to chance nx atrixbouisck Evandro Mercurii Theban. he joined his son, who, because of the civil in Arcadia a, h! raging storms, compa- rata strong claffe averting the country to other times OLD NO other colonies to discover already it was cin&u; who and Catillus xtate flourished tem of impressive physical strength no given to the greatness of the soul, already at the time of his departure %apta r xalgiyiTcu, inxotrTcf tta (mJTit Tjp'ix$v, S cLvvi Jfajjuuoi Xtyamv, JTIaAcw- V U M L A T I U M. tih 7roAs4)? A dvag-ds. vyitv r dvroixiag jlpo- He landed in that part of Graxorum, U About years before the Trojan War, nt ipfi the Romans deliver, the prophet d Pallantio in the city of Arcadia Evander, the son of Mercury, brought him. Claffis vero Elandree, Solino tefte, pra: Catilltts was starchy. liarn it lentif. C A P U T III Saturniar Evander's Colony in the Land of the Aborigines, tjuod Latium Tyburtin Collerm Pdilgi vrttmli mo- N in the first part of this Book it was oftenfum, uti&in no- for the first time after the Hetrurians Latii pofleifore, poftmo- while SaturnwnloVis the arrival of the excepiflqqui deceased Stolano fucceflor of the Kingdom, because of the huge inhumanumgenus praftitamerita, in Having reported the number of the gods, Latium Sa- He wanted to call the Earth a turn; about which cer- tiores fa&i Tdafgi, there with a strong ex- on foot, where there are so many goods there would be abundance, by the advice of the Oracle, they conceived, which was of this kind: "ZTaytTi Za- TiSplOLVCUCW, IfoAGo&ifyiutxowAlw, Svdrog ohtoj]. Of? dva, uiiiTi; hxdTuu ioia. Kcu Kgovith yg] t Trare} 7Ti[JL%iTiP(STa. Continue reading Sicilian Saturnia countryside And the Aborigine of Cotylen, ubife infula) shines. Of all the dead, the tithes shall be sent to Clarius Phcebo you And the heads of Diti, i. y Father So I went to the field of bus opibufque, Siculosin Satumia Ter-fliju1' ra that was called ScLatium, home They drove the swimmers down. Meanwhile Evander zd the Palatine mountain of Edri large cuke mtento, Catdln-szd vi- running down the hill of the Aborigines, attracted by the beauty of the place, together with a few cis Sicults communicate there with fuperftitus not even living, a little in the first street He extends the smaller form, which the desire of the sons of Tyburtus, Corax, Cattlus in which we have already described as a city they built, by the eldest son Ty- with the name of Burte. thus Virg. Tumgemini brothers Tyburtia mxnia I am afraid by the surname of his brother Tyburt the nation Catillufque, and Corax, Argiva jolly High special worship lanusfab iif- at that time it was worshiped both in Sa- of the two, the Aborigines in the common country, and the best in Latium, which Saturnia Terra then called Saturnia. it was said to be a pore. For using Trogi Epi- s, nU- tomator Juftinus To the Italians, he says Cnltores were the first Aborigines, of whom Saturn tanLe juslittiefuijfe tradi- tur R neither ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI neqtte quicqtta privata reibaburerit, fed common mnnias (y indtVifa omnibusjtte- rint, 'Peltti ttnum patrimony to all tfet; obatjus cxempli memory cattttm go, as Saturnalibtts, to the end of all things jure, pafimin con)iViisJ'erli cuniDomtnis they recline And so Italy d1 (by name "Saturnia" was called "a mountain in which dwelt Saturn, in which now Velttti d lo- ve pulfo fedibttsfuis Saturno, Capito- lium ejl. And Herodias's words confirm nus l. i. Nss [fyj tTXcri%m tIw VaiixcHoi 3-ioii ty%cwTctlsv 1'tol- afyxwetov dmpiHig. taor yo when Kovov vm AiosqmSm- $u'jc9j itov. At the beginning of the year Rome They act as if they were old-fashioned in Italy
referring to God, who also refers to Saturn ipfum, when the son of Jove was put in the kingdom will destroy the earth fuiffe bofpite pre- let them say Ancient Gods was it fuiffe, from which, Macrobius tefte, Satur- excepted, one fume concord re- they knew each other, and the neighboring towns in common they founded works, bringing Marone: The door was closed, and Saturnia had flown name And with that impromptu, what I would like to tell them two consecutive menfes rint utVecemberSxrum-Saturni, la whence and fefta had its origin when Saturnalia called Ma- they are brought, together with an abundance of things, as well even so freedom dtfcriminabatttr Saturn so- conferred benefits, everywhere throughout the earth Saturniam', then the favorite Tybure from Catillo temple dedicated to him by the universe L"ji. . The most famous broads, which each ad women who want to smoke was held in veneration by, in quo and Thefauros repofitos fuiffe, tra- says Appianus Civil. bell c. v. Kar#p T iipUV iOMCtCits TCL d7r6TiP'd[iYK ix. a KaOTAiajiwa A'vfm, xgj Aavsia, (aj Ns', uyf, AW, sV&i; i(aj vwJmtStmajJ puv JVttAa? . Cxfar money from fans mutual acceptance of the Capitol of Ro- mx. from Antio, Lanuvio, Nemore, Ty- bure, in which cities it is most useful, so now also are tbefaurigrandesfacra- rum money Yes fat fu- and by this means the registration, which ex erudite Francifco Niartio deprompfi a mouse; And it is still called Iegi in the abacus a certain marble, which today there in the Ecclesia of St. Angeii outside the city he would trust the word of another; generally in tenor: C. JULIUS C. F. P. AL. RUFUS TRIBUNVS MILITUM TWICE FANS CURATOR
FROM RARE SATVRNI Why did they confuse this Satumi Delubrum I. Whatever happens, just like that whether it was, is uncertain. Some think that the Temple of Saturn, according to the priests eiiScriptoribits Tyburtinis, prifciso- in the same place at the same time in which the Herctdk Tem- plum was built conftitiffe the temple of Saturn at the top. Vn- It happened, as the time of the Delusion this Saturn with Hercules the Authors the confluence of the times bore, ajdem fuiffe, rough, as it is often said, MinerPa pri- mo exftru&am, it is verifiable, which; Sc long years given to the Temple of Hercules in that place he had passed away by destroying his neck. It is just like the famous Hercules Tyburtini V E T U S N O Explain the origin of the Temple of Tyburton mouse Tybunmi Evjnder a Carmtnta matrc, deApo- Tcmpii thcoii Hercules procuranda' with the oracle i nftru&us, mother's inftincribs obfuscating, since it has been a while since rio Hercukm cognofcendi flagrarct. in- he understood at last, that of Hefpefta How many people are there in Latmm? that with a little. poft accidiffct, demfatidico mother itlftintSdjafn mul- to be warned before with the honors of the fumes in Talanteo montt excepilfe, Authoreft Euphthaeus the commentator of Dionysus. Evatfyv tov ivisan awamt rSrngvovx iTranona. lmoju- a victory first dedicated to him by Evandn He brings Vionyfms; first of all, Ser- io tefte, through the universe of Latium csteros He was forced to exaggerate by example; who then teceas Hercftlis abEvander infti- safe worship moved Catillus, to bure the worship of Satumi with which he was able to promoted Whence fumptuofiffi- A temple was built in his honor then his lusts broke out. co, in which today the excellent S'-Lauren- tii Templum Cathedrale, by lulio S. R. E. Cardinale, Epifcopo Tybur- tino, from the foundations there But the fuifle is a large fuperbifque porticoes, which are columns; vaftazexva- Temples Herculaneum fuHi. Register anti- qutc ttjitt Temples Herculaneum Calvin M. SILLANI FIL. DELICIOUS June S. P. F. TYRANNIDE THE BEST VXORI C. ALBIV LIVILL L. TYMELVS HERC. AUGUST. V U M L A T I u M. they were fuftcntating with rio marble, which ex- It is evident from their remains that the cultiirnum was Among which Adguftitm Cefme not de- dignatum, (say the right number, Suetomus commemorates his life. indeed from Ydla Mitceuatis, which Augufas Tyburt will sometimes ruftika batur, through an oblong portico, whose
still there are rapids, in dicfum A temple was given to Hercules. This Temphtm was surrounded by divers things: the makers ca3 domufque, partly for housing of the miniftres, partly in fupeldelis also that barn in which the cattle niarius thcfaurus in the public office was gathered together, of which Appianus has already quoted A library too The porticoes of the temple of Jun&am Aulus Gellius iP, c. he reports: from the Bibliotbeca Ty burti, which was then in Her- with the temple of fate conveniently rMrucla it was books. But it was of this kind The same temple destroyed in Joco, in which way the Temple of Lauren- of that Martyr's exftat, they teach nes, which the erudite Franciscus Martius infua Tyburtina HtHoria, while fun- they would lie, found fuiffe, mar-, reports they are fertile II.
P. RVSTICELLIV! DANCER HERC. VICT M. III. HERCVLI SAXANO SACRVM SER. . SVLPITIVS TROPHIMVS DEM ZOTHECAM CVLINA PECVNIA ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI HIS MONEY He stopped alone THE SAME He dedicated K. DECEMBER. L. TVRPILIO RIGHT M. MAECIUS RVFO COS. . EVTICIVS SERIES He stopped doing it. Tybur hercu Leo iwTy- burti Whence Tybttr or from the ancients in the times of Hercukum there was juxtayludVirg. Hercules and the ancient Tyburs castles The reign of Amphiaraoeis passed on to his grandsons. Faunirai-eil the worship of the peacock, which Evander After the fashion of Arcadus, he had settled in the Territo- rio Tyburtino fumme viguiffe femper not far from Lake Fulpbureo, which JlbuneumYOcabmt, one with fylva near the fountain, which was adjacent to the lake see Virgil: But he was deceived by the Latins monftris, oracle of the Faun He went to his father's fate, and lucofque fub high Conftlit Albunea, the forest qut ma- I am doing the same thing The fountain sounds, and the feVam exbalatopaca I'm sorry Which place was held in such reverence bitus, so as not to quixtoto Latium not to him the refuge of the Oracle crushed in ignorance (who ccecs Gentile Satanic cunning schemes fedudx was a mistake) would run together. For as Moroccan: Hence the Italx nations, and all Oeno- three countries When in doubt, they ask for help. It was ailtem "Dionyfw tefte, fpelunea oncuhm with a large mound contained and at the foot of a deep stone fountain the ass, and the foal Morofum, and frequent procerifque overshadowed by the trees, rooted there by God they were doing good to their country. 8c to this OracuIum LatinumYk. tgzmAborige- whether, Faunus and Mttfilius, while about the daughter fua LaVinia Turno utttorum Regi in he would decide to rent the marriage y concurring, Virgil tells, to whom The oracle is here referred to in the following words: "Hepete conjurias natamfociare Lati- you my offspring; believe it or not ready Foreigners join the race that fangui- neither of us They will bear the name in the afira, and each a Jiirpe grandchildren Everything is on the feet, both of them recurring He touched the ocean, and turned and reigned. they must C A P U T IV T)e Aneaj mLatiumadvenm: As for the Aborigines The king by the advice of the oracle I was divorced from marriage, which Turno defpondcre had become he was in need Meanwhile the time Mneas the son of Ancbife together with the claffe the Trojans can be destroyed by sea a refugee, landed on the shores of the Laurentians lit. The aborigines were so unprepared for the novelty The crowd of foreigners was terrified they came together Aeneas was a wise man tooth and eloquent, so poftconceffum heart Catillus bcili dmes within Afnea V E T S k N O access to the Latin Rcgem as well aptly, acting on the energy of words you are, as King, not the leaf of foreigners, with so many labors he failed to confirm the same they had exhumed the dam, by commifcration touched, fed infupcrtant broken the prudence of a man and the bulk of the war, against rum violence, agitated affumpfcrit, it was also given to him according to the advice of the oracle LaVmia's daughter became his wife. Latins, Re- the gem divorced from Turnus with JEnea, ex- kinship with a train an unknown man his lost daughter bearing together in a unanimous conspiracy war against They moved Jenea, Ty- bure ex newly afc exftru&a city ma-
a large number of soldiers marched vigorously rent, according to Virgil sings Every one of them was great cities TelamoVent, Atinapotens, and Tiburque stupid They were leading the armies of the great Tyburtians the brothers Corax and Cattle, very strong men, a I turn against the confederates with the Lati- our %ege Trojans summoned. Virgil. Then the twin brothers Tyburtia of Macenia leave I will say it by the surname of Brother Tyburt nation Catillufque and Corax, Argira pCfentus Extortion of these Tyburtines in no way defrauded by the strength of the brothers tus Turnus, while I am already charging the soldiers in the fury of war Catillus Jolla Huge in mind, huge in body arms He cast down Hermonius. A giant, I say, in a quofoloLd- the strength and nerves of tin's army were relished it seemed, and no doubt defeated by the Tyburtins things were conquered, after the death of Turni and La- tin King's victor: chance is in favor the cause of the Trojans would not fall; whence ScTyburtini together with 3oLpopuIis, Duke King of the Jews V U M L A T I U M. they were playing with the government. And from this at the time of the Alban Kings, which iraA]. femper from the Latins Trojans. ffte Dio- bj"orum mixed f uit, mchoated was "trimn. control And indeed at first it is possible the death of the Latin JEneas rcgnavitanos three, to which the river Numicus {ubmesfus unless he appears more fully, you are gone He was counted among the needy Gods. This rum glory of the heart last life: "TJZ having made him to be honored among the gods tower i, Ode in these words: And prtceps Anius, r Ty burti La- because AfcanwsJEne. t Rlius, heir of the Kingdom. poft- Araoirt which he reigned years, after the foundation of Lavinius jamLuww, exftru2ions AlbaLonrie "'r' he made a beginning: and since this Alban Imprei Regcs, already in progress did we spoil here again fuperva- I brought a dog. enough, exhifcewi- lum %emum%omance things prodiiffe I will not speak here of Cluilio King of the Albans, who only Roman: Aibano- power: the growth of a? gre bearing rum "m war against Tullus Hostilius, ter- Ipiut the King of the Omanis, while the index-. ret, in the auspices of the work htus, MetioSujfetio received with great pleasure left to be executed. Here to end the war with manis, countries in such conditions with Tullus Hoftilw King, as three fra- three of the Alban Court, and as many three of Ho-Cwin the brothers of the Omani faith ratio on one side the forces would be, on the other they would yield to the government. At last he came to Cldias foffam to the Alban Courts, defeated returned to the Omani three Horaces one fuperftite. Better Sufftius, fuccefor Cluilu King Albani, I'm afraid to tolerate the minimum of the hands held dominion, clandcftinis in- he tries his arts again against the war To infatuate the Romans, you came to him the end rumicHo- I reasoned A T H A N A S I I end with the strength of the Latins, the best MetiiSuf- puimatluKl. fed revealed A&fti contra the first game of the Latin Long White I completely overthrew the metropolis, Metius but the unfortunate horse may be torn to pieces. And now I grant this to Albanorwn Rc- Kircher the fire is about five hundred years old, which the bus was uncuffed, ever together with peoples of Ldtii, which enjoying the freedom of rum fmguli by way of republican government ban C A P U T V, Te yariis JRyoktionibm Tyburtina: TZegibus the Roman Republic H? i? Oft destroyed the White Lati-. i" J&norumquelmperiumKexTul- p. PpK lu-s to Laf; populoscon- 4&2iJ3 fxderatos, which intcr not undeservedly Tybttrtini not inferior when they were holding, sending ambassadors He desired that they should do the bidding, which presumably to the Omani forces when Albiniomm also translitfet other things The empire of Latinxcenti; to whom, however, a there was no life in private fedindicl: oinFfra! fwfacrafylvaLjff- iiie hundred councils, not least of Omanis they decided to grant the government; fed unaqua: que Latinorummbs (uxli- the avenger of Berta, as best as he could just fub conftituto Magiftratu fe gu- he was lying By which decree TnUus cxa- and being roused, at last he made war upon them,
egreigefeLafww rf; ;fWcontrainten- Dfiftm'' to those defending the violence. Ty- cmnrits. lurtini use omce neighbors, so everywhere fub, poft fub Anco Martio, Tar- Aumius Trifcus entered into a three-way peace, soon the same broken again, united with the other Latins, By the forces of Sabine and Hetrucf, for so long Lellorummolemfuftiniunut until The power of Tarquinius Trifcl was defeated, faf- the food of the Omani tandcm fe fubjece- it runs And so the rest of the Tyburtini The Latins have long been distrustful, fub lene. SerVioTullio, yi 1(omanorum re- frame they would rejoice; it happened, as Tarquinius Proud ambition struck with the sword, nor not the daughter of Seryiii Regis, which he should have joined her in marriage, lest and from the infantile decay of ambition Latin Tarqui of others beguiled by continuous prayers, death Servio Tullius, intolerant of the murder really understand of course so immeasurably son, as much as the greater impiety of the father the corpse of the body, with wounds on all sides and in the public street in a carriage, on which he was riding, the daughter crushed the father indignantly slaughtered by Tarquinius ctaflet; with which he accefftt ftuprum abo- matronE, violently fi trained Certainly because of such a terrible fa-go? t n. mus Tyrannid, Tarquinms a Repu- blica procriptus, regnoquefpoliatus, He did this alone, as a co-facilitator of Fcrentino At the council, Latink was attracted to the tes, would stir up war with the Omanis, and supported by these fublids, into the kingdom of the book if it had been bought, it would be restored; than union nor concord with the Tatins, as to obtain, the vixen council: clever the aftutiaconfertuminiit of the state, ScfuitLa- vacation in Monte Albano fattution; of which cumjaminprxce- we will gnash our teeth, repeat them here I did not marry him. And not to do anything to fa-" dlion, howmole, omififlfc it would seem that Torfenna Hetru the king of the fcos, tem, legates, him bus, he was trying to allure to the wrong parts; fedfua cheatedfpe, finally to Ocla- The Way of the Tufculans I was the most powerful of all kinds as if he took refuge in a strong anchor, to whom fortune should turn: in favor of the father-in-law condoling, to the same in the Kingdom back OLD NEW LATIUM. the truth, both of the wounded, each of them on the part of Vi&oria, he felt doubted it is painted; until OBaYw Mamilto interme to be refreshed, compared to the huge exercise cku, infantry, cavalry The potter's milk smelled. They were then pores Titus Virgimus, U Aulus 'Posthumius. Here for war of affairs; expert of this war Didia declared tor together with Titus Elbutius Heha Magiftro the horse, with the army million foot, horse, thousand, to di- while %ifflli lake fa- to meet the hopes &us I will remember all the starches, in which outside, with so much excitement He was born, so that from the multitude he fell pto, Tufcula panicked with every fear J. "J[uUni pcrculfi, omams turning tcrga, quif- let life be a flight, by which the given tus, fer vare; and so Omani village ria cx prxlio, cujufmodi ad iftud ufque a more formidable time had not happened, conquered, after the destruction of the kingdom of the Latins, Tu- Jculana spilled everfa, Tarquinius in the ship where the unfortunate fua may have been profuse a&o, they joined the rest rio, in the year after the city of Cond. Tyburtini roman ramjuri bmfruun there C A P U T VI T)e Tyburtines tm Romans confccderatkfie. M. Onfosderatione Tyburtino rumcumlslomams inia, no j folum ij privikgiismunici- they enjoyed the gifts given to the pious, fcd the same white of the citizens of the Komans registered, one as a Republic: cor- they exhibited pus; nor did they fly here Fed would be contained, XjiW tranfmi- they say, how incredible Tyburttm received with joy and congratulations m Hercules emplo, vcluti perennial ini- they set up a monument of the covenant. Where? finally (use Francifcus Martius fupra praised teftatur in juo de Hifio na Tyburtina book. within the old age the ruins of the temple of Hercules, while the foundations the building of the house in which it lies rent, invcnta together with the head, which Tyburtini Didatori eff Volunt Tabub
as the Tyburtines in the Magiftratus wanted to found a city The Roman Table of Aeneas in the temple carved, in which peace and con- the heart to the perpetual memory of the matter, and to the conftant in perfect faith L. CORNELIUS GN. F. Sen. CON. AD III. NO MAY SVB DE. KASTORVS SCR ADF A. MANLIVS. AF SEX JULIUS L. POSTVMIVS S. F. WHAT. TEIBVRTES V. F EVERYONE. DE. THINGS YOU PVRGAVISTlS EA. SENATE ANIMVM He advises YES. VT. EI AQVOM FVIT ALL OF US EA. YES. We had said goodbye. UT YOU You have left YOU TO BE ANNOUNCED EA. WE ANIMVM OUR NO INDOVCEBAMVS YES. DONE TO BE owned QVOD SCIBAMVS EA. YOU I deserve it. OUR to do NO I could have NOR. YOU worthy ESSENCE, QVEI EA. you will do NO. I. D. to you s NOR A T H A N A S I I K I R C H E R I NOR. REPUBLIC yours OITILE BE. to do AND After yours. words the senate That's all. MORE ANIM II OUR INDOVCIMVS YES. I used it. BEFORE. ARBITRABAMUR DE. EIEIS THINGS AF to you SIN NO BE. WHATEVER. About them. REBVS. SENATE PVRGATI YOU ARE I believe AND YOU. ANIMVM YOUR INDUCE It should be ITEM. YOU THE PEOPLE ROMANO. PVRGATOS THE OUTSIDE tiesTybat nose? This Table, etfi fumma diligence which Tybnre, however, could not be found it was permitted, nor by any other, what about it becomes difficult to know. It was so with the power and insight of this Tabult to ckcitcr years complete peace fir- ma Tyburtins with %omans; desire nevertheless, to use nothing in the human world viciflltudine fetabile, fub various Confu- The battle broke out in the open, until the fury of Camillus the giver of Peduqux was the city of Tyburtint confosderatafcaliscaptum, fubjedif- that of the rest of the rebellious peoples of Latium and Tyburtini's neck under the yoke of Rome nofubdere they joined, three times from the city founded in the four hundredth To whom he then adhered with great faith they run, with great common strength the efforts of the real estate How but at the beginning of the civil wars denter (eg&rintTyburtini, exCinna flee to Tyburtines the homeless, lucu- slow down Resitafehabet: After the Hpeptblica %oman were created Sylla and Q. were present and divide one within the ipfos in the manner of a folio SylU was that full of glory against My- the thridate expedition of the King of Pontus. And C. Marius as C. Marius feptiesjam both Conful, continuous with honors, trium- phis, enriched with immense riches aiTuetufque was, already sweet Keipubli- ca to the breasts, from which all fortune fua: reason, strength, and power when full abvoluta mpempub This province abipfo the P{oman Empire fubjc&as, it hung with care; so also, to use ambition destroys the way, xgerrimefe- rents, Sylla in the expedition against Fibi Mitbridatcm preyed upon, every mo- vebatlapidem, utrefciifa! fen tentia, tively recalled, through Sulpitius Tri- good, ipfe fufficetur, that to use defi- had gone astray, the execution was ordered. Syl- la de Marii's tela certior fa&us, in- p, "p" stricken with a credible fury, he was avenged Mario was smoking. Reli&aka- that in the Afia expedition, already so successful occepta in the event of the event army, as quickly as possible driven by your impulse, he contended for the apple, where you saw that you were being attacked by force of arms, Cajjitolium ingreflus fuprema compo- teftate first expulc Mario with you were all confederated, read below wide, so that everyone can be freed from those who they wanted, to slaughter, to the relict expedition to Afia, it is In the absence of Sylla Confulatus J OclaVtut were the dignitaries Cinna, of whom Maria na: strives by all means, as Syl- lana: confections against all right pnfcripta: cxpungenterun, and so much I have lost the yoke of freedom ipomania Pefpub unfaithful peace, and Mario was recalled from exile with everyone if you were, he would enjoy it: OclaViws against fatigue ni Syllana: favoring, I did not know the matter of weapons Jana y 'ilma. tyburti ours frudmia Wariiyr.
domain VindiBa Sylvanas. V E T tl S N O the power of arms to be dropped there Whence Cinna de OilaVw in fias par- working hard by dragging them, to Ty- htrtmos fugitives, with that intention, as them to smoke weapons [against the adversaries excite, at Tj Wtozringentium ca- the lamitates, which from the turbulent hifce They want to arise from fa&ions, like pra: beech trees, none so strong: the effect of prayer cacia, none so strong Cozeargumen- tis, ad cedus with %omatm by swearing having already confirmed the breaking out, I was introduced they seemed afraid, from neither party the parties were afraid of the future, do- nor, when things were about to turn, did he decide rent Meanwhile Marm together with Cmna having prepared an army, he was unharmed by the bore he had been in thence driven out of Sylla, in OBaVimn Sylla- nx fa&ion's incredible fury the nation, and all the others, turned everything, SylU's wife and son were fined into exile bat, infuperejusicineremre maid Thus it happens, where there is no public good reflected, where he is disturbed by the perversity of his mind in favor of self-interest then takes place. SyllamAfia con- where Mariana was born; violent rages in fe and fuam house commiflbs in- he realized, with an irreconcilable rage of mind perplexed, avenged: then Mmariusjoxm to smoke the Omanis: he was burning with treachery; already down the road against Mitbrida having obtained a swollen, swollen breast, He caused so much destruction to the citizens, that Lucil The multitude of the slaughterers scarcely flourished Vll M L A Tlu M. the fubnumemm would fall, whom Ap- ptanus a hundred thousand heads of citizens, no the score of the haymaker's order, and from the order He had laughed at the horsemen. He was not tired here is the fury of an impotent mind. lenu mmuCapito! io%omanam Kempu- K Wrawomnia was deprived of his liberty; I was not a very strong man, as many Marii fadioni adha; fcrunt, ex- they are destroyed, except the city of Tyburtma, with which: to the trickster, I am afraid, while to the neutral part adh. -efit, imminent calamity- then the whirlwind escaped. Refque epro- it took place, so that the contenders of the smoke re- to Dictators, %oma unhappy, ur- well, houses, roads, streets with mud the way through the hands of the ambitious he would make it overflow with linen and to those who are hungry for hatred, until they die men who would be killed; utfcite Appianus says: but I overpowered them to count them, whosoever He wanted to be killed until Fuftidius warned him VCpere, that they should do what they commanded. Re- ducra finally %oman lmperii fumma r. -iumt. poft Julii rate, which QclaVw, Marcus Antonius ruws, Lepidus somewhat peacefully they wore But soon a new cata- ftrophe, who finally from this tribe the smoke of the Empire would prevail, fa: viilima the pastures are given away; until I die Lepidus, ca devi2o, the univerfi of the Omayii Empire fceptrum OBaViano Augufto, communi- the verfaji of the whole world is at peace. P A R S ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI P A R S II Of TYBURTIN CITY Anti- when you leave, why is it still in his They are full of rubbish. C A P U T I Te jyhvo TrifcoTyburtinx mbisjiiu. you the law p Um Tybur from the sons of Catillus, Ty- tJS Corace Catillo, ne-
yachts of Ampbiarai then, to none of the priests of Latium both in ancient times, tumrerumge let the glory of the dead yield the monuments of the heroes left in it Let us proceed to explain, first of all deejus fitu, naturaloci, as ho- it is found every day, and then also deejusprifcorum times we will differ Tybur Tybur today in the middle of the edi- a hill covered with charm, fi- then fpected From the rising of the Mount of the Cross, which Catilli's first ftation or ha- We have said that we are fuiffe by bitation; ScViam Valeriam from Occafu, Sabine region plains on the west; Mountain the broken valley of Anienis a. at noon olive groves, often used rius Tufculanos %omanofque Agros refpi- cit, a to whomever turn thee you will be deliciously gifted, five hor- the thundering fpecles of the Catadupars nothing to the eyes and ears It seems to be difficult to approach le&ation.
Alluitur Tybur Aniene fluVio, fic diifto, Tlutarcbo tefte, that Anius Thuf- cia Rex Catbetitm a young man, a quifilia violently struck by the shaft of his love she bursts forth, armed with hand, fleeing qutus, until it was finished, this fe by the river, whence Anius Sc. a man remains, who is a priest in times fPareufus was said to be vulgar today Anicnis fl. EtymM CT dtjtri option Mate is called TeVerone. has an origin I did not pro- with the town of Sublaco, the cradle of the Order nis the famous Senedicli, who from Mt With a loud trumpet rum from all sides confluent afHuxu, and not by the various diversions of finally through CatadubasTybttrtinas con- Catidupai and he plunged down the valley into Tyberim was deceived by a great stream of waters discharge; from the main Catadupa of the mind, and with a terrible trembling, in two parts Curfu, partly under the most profound bridge the abyss, as from a horrible spectacle you could say the mouth of hell, partly outside the city through the highest rock into the common the abyss of the watery abyss, through other underground tunnels it is committed to as many other Cataracts. For the fchemata here they offer adjuncts. The whole river a little south of Catadus divide the first into three streams is divided, the first of which has already been discussed it is d: um; the other through the underground ca- nalem derivata, ad delkiodVillieEfien- fun entertainments of which a little hungry the third through canals frogs, which they call forms, in the va- divide the rivers and streams, of course, in the greatness of the city the profit of the mills it boils; hence through the various Catarratlas within the terrible valley of life, then in Anicne in the region of Canobius D. Anton so it is rolled down. Whence the whole Twice driven open to the captain, in various ways supply of water ctus is seen, with a large number of leather fullonum, paper workers when? You see
THE CITY OF TYBURI D ELI IST EAT I O. OTASILIOBA QJTAEIN-HAC UEUN-EATICWB COTTNEVTUR Ciutt-attS trurma. "nrtU -Jju-rcs quaJusr a. c Jtairt cclejm&. Jtanv&Jte JJamus SritlLr 'Jrhurturtur. S. Jtartat. S, ue. cdfa-S. TaaJi Ccchfit CarreaUs S. Laurrirfr ctantraiatui Cjitfejtt. tcclefUS. Jtaria-MCarrtunr. . Ccclefa. SfAtri. CccLfaS. J-riurrtiatur- Sc Xajpitate CcckrJfinrtttiic 3cS. Sac. Icfu. Ccckfa StStep dcdfiaS-JriJrex. Ccclfa S. IesrtarJt. JJanius Jfeifutt 'UatiuHa? . JDtmniS Cafuin. 2J. . Jurtus cx. Antrutd aatut i. JTarzteS ajua. Scctfa S. Jaarus jhyefarttm. Ccckfa S. Ijatuus Jffitak. CccLfa St. Geart; S. Clarer. S. Blank inserted to ensure correct page position
O E T U S NEW L A T I U M
You can see in hifcc iron parts of all kinds, both domestically, and to the fupelleiftile war, and war to make a fumme of genius "la" rlX ruonis Chartaria; art officiating nx fpettanur and miller not with corn only by grinding into flour fed pressed with olive oil, py- and making a river of dust with wonderful art conftru&a architecture, so opportune addrerumomniumhu mana: life; a supply of necefaria to compare, I did not remember I don't know. The field was so wild J r r r, jertlitai he gives, so that he may harvest all kinds of purple chase I was ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI horsemen's cupids, five wines, fruits of the mind, and the oil of the most noble, abundantly fpe&es, to give up the city of Latium to no one else can be seen Today, Avienis reservoir from the first Cata- dupa is all shaggy, and sharks, to use It is clear from the annexure. Where by Various entrances into the deep and lively horrible abysses, fubterraneofque maeandros dilapfus, etc. , etc. Cata- runs into the depths, so that the depth devours a multitude of gins and rabbits once upon a time a higher dam and a higher reservoir
habuifie, clearly demonstrated; nay the most open of these figs in Catadupavi- they offer the ashes of the cave, where all rocks miraculous OLD NO turnip tartare rain, because of the flow He had carried the rum to the rocks for a long time into this and that day of flow reflow jusfigna, in ipfa tartare material with they are filled with wonder. How many times the earth becomes subject to changes, in Mundofubterranco, Itinere Hctrufco, with countless examples we showed how much do you think the deepest river for two thousand years and more about the city of Tyburtma tion fubijffe? True with this end Topograpliico fchemate included they don't like it, I'll hide it the last part of the city and the river you can better compare it to the prifco. Ve- riim of hifce more in fequents, where Vofifa and Horata decribe mouse, it will be done. I will add an epigram here that of the horrible catadupa of this place the learned chronologist V U M L A T I U M. . Jofephus Silos from the order Theatinorurn. Whereupon Anius dashed swiftly against the barrier big And trembling, the cafus groaned, Sifte Hofpes, rocks interfratlafqueper the waves Thank you very much for your kind words to die do you see h curfu speedy infua fate fufajue Indignant, he sinks among the dquasi. Trxapttes frighten the flood, terrible ifaurcs Vcrberat astonitds Concitm from below they will It is broken, it breaks fcopulosjefcque reformed Dumcadtt wave, rages while it rages wida, falls Perhaps feNilus ideft, Jgypmmis, Ty changes here. Believe me; for lapfus borrows from illefuof. C A P u T ir 'DeVillis Tyburtinis, which: Once upon a time from Cafaribm, Regibm, Confulibus, THlHatoribm, and Toetis in delkiu habitce fuenmt Toftogra Fbia Terri they swear Rima Vilia, which; in the field of Ty- M burtino, adripa Boreale He met the Ancients in the ruins you were still fplendefcens fpe- Ctfiro it is given, today it is said in Cefarano, how some want Vdlam fuiffe Caij Mij Ctfark, others Caij Cxfark CaliguU; verify those of Cefoniortim are venturing with fire ViUam fuiffe, folum di&orum Cepha- rumrecreadom commiflam, and pro- fucceffive their proper fuiffe Indeed, it was truly amazing to him, C. Mius I would use a very strong man, not a village and with dehciis affuetum, fed orbi fibi f ubju- gand6mtentum, interperpetual war rum turbines or diverted childhood trust in the dehcioiis C. Ver6 CefareCaltgulamfiermanici Cefark miu, Some people don't use peppermint, burefed Antti natum effe, prid. Kal. Se- ptemb. ScC Fonteio Coff. as &iiguia from the fcelefthilm and nefarious Emperor they must ascribe to the rising ever outside the city of delights, fed inau- riches abominable pleasures trapropriipalatiipenetralia, exftructis pubhcis lupanaribus indulfifc legi- there; and although before the imperial he will make a pit, he will take good care of it I Ltinx Auguftce for some time fefe Pefferit yet he was possessed of great strength, and was ferocious And with all his might, he trembled let the corpse be carried out buit: luxury; so devoted to prodigy as immense riches, and buried him thefaurum Ttberii vicies fcpties thousands of times ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI thousands of Sefterts, which at thousand lions thousand Crowns to steal 'Sudmts fcribit, not yet entirely at the turn of the year he smoked; so much in tyrannical mnes debauched, as he wished ftuprum illatutrr, ipfas exula- really forced, or his own brother Ti- Lerium, Ptolemy's kinsman, Syl- wool (ocerum, L. CaBtum iororis mari- &tsrannii I "r Clumsy then, Macron Scribonium, a[io{apc, ciuo$ narrate long it would be, he would kill him cruelly, and not here fe ftitit ambitious cxfarea mind sceptre, as the Divine worship there I was in the name of the temples and priests he has given birth; Vionyfu the younger Atbenao tefte, clothed with berry weave He wanted to be called fe. In the Temple also Heterofolymitano fuam adoran damponijuflit; that femper ufus, they run while they are afraid; with that: if only %efpub. would drink a single cerYtcem. Anto- nitt vero aYue him licentioiius incre-
the garment is carried refpondiffe; remember He says, "All things are lawful for all. Vt hence Tyburtin's better choice lest the memory of the wicked Kaffar they prefer to fumble than the glory of man's birth kind of monster rather than human nis, to go around; which finally perished in the fourth year of the reign of Kal. Feb. in the condition of the city in he was born in Chriflum vtat. z finished with thirty wounds: at- that a death so worthy of the swift he was afraid But this has already been passed say fmt The town was therefore not from Cajo Julius Gefare, nor by C. Gefare Ca- ligula, fed by the Gejon family secretly, we say: from which house Caius Caligula's fourth wife Gefo lasciviousness, fornication, and perverted lewdness she married no inferior husband. But This fuiffe of Gefoniorum Ytlla, infcri they teach the options that are inde- of the Tyburtine Antiquities ex- Plorator, Marcus Antonius Ntco- dcmm discovered in this place, are quoted also by Aldus Manutius Junius re, in my Book entitled Orthogra- pia L. Caffonius, C. Filius, Quirina Lucillus Macer Ruffinianus Cos. FraterAr, the city was elected knowledge of Caefaris nes suitors Prov. Africx, men The Senate with the help of R. P. to take care of? Waters and Threats: , Curator, , of the White Tiber, and of the sewers of the city, Ambassador Prov. Africa; , at the same time re vice confulis Why R. P. Tufcula ours, curatorR. P. Sueffanorum, Pr. Ttor Candidate, Quarftor can- educated, elected into the family of Patri- a man to judge the poor. What indeed from the House of Gephonia This was Gephonius, of whom he mentions I have already brought it to the register, there is no doubt. I will fantasize, the various fuiffe Gephonios hu- jus Ytlla pofleflores, of which one tem- pore lulti egkHi- fpanue, against the children of Pompey the Great tefte Orofius, or he does not like it, I should say fuiffe T. Gefonium Trifcum, Equitcm Roman, new from pleasures offi- cio by Tiberius tonim in Ytta Tiberius. But don't worry bis Cefonue familix fupradi&am YtUam cowardly, in this place oftendiffe Other Registration C. Cajfonio. C. Son. who Macro Ruffiniano Confulari, fo- given to Augustus by Emperor Seve- ri Alexander Aug. Why? R. P. La-, , of the snow II. Proconf. Prov. Africa cx, Curate Waters Minic. Leg. Aug. Prof. Prof. German fupe I laugh. Why? Aqueduct of the Tiber. Why? R. P. Theans Leg. Aug. Prof. Prof. Prov. Lufitan Why? R. P. Tarricens. Pro- cos. Prov. Below Leg. Leg. VII. Claude Why? R. P. Afculanse, Qux- Prov. Narbonne tribe Leg. I. I added. Donate military gifts Divo Marco, III viro Capitali, Pa- three sweetest and incomparable Cxphonius Lucillus son of Confucius laris C A P U T
OLD NEW LATIUM. C A P U T IH, T)e Famous Villa of the Emperor Hadrian in the Fields Tyburtino
Stuiiirn Adriani in amnilitf ratwie to spin iElw AJrianus Carfar, Impe- Trajan's V neus, indeed, to his father born on Sext. JElto Afro Tra- brother-in-law of John, and mother Domitia Tau- Lina was born to the Gaius, whence I am born to him y! m It was a table. He arrived at the Empire grace Javore Ttottnx, than his they bear flagrant love, gnus anti- whence he draws from AJriaPicentium his elders at the time of the Scipios jn Hi- They migrated to Spain. Abandoned child PatreintutelamTrayW', from whom also adopted liberally and imbued with arts tus, the most learned of letters in Grace He was very warm, so that even Gracchus And the game would be called, "Mathematics pmera". fnfiBiK. with the first intruder, whom Marius Max. fummum Aftrologus also he appeals, itautumnium dayerumuf at the hour of death, the future will be revealed before: he faltered. Since then, everyone return the skills, everyone was excited rcs, fa: pe fibi propofitas quxftiones cer- by the way, the smoke of the genius is filled with praise. He nourished the characters, and favored them, the princes Faborinus Philophophus They are still crying his certain EpigrammataGraxale-
the worst A beard in Grascan fashion He took the time to subdue them, which the fashion desired by some of the Princes of Ro- my hands were boiling. The greatest journey in He finished with the speed of a nation, in Tannonia, ItiJaam, Gaul, Britain, Hifpa- niam, reverfus hence in in which cxpedition when Anthem befriended him, Heteropho- Lymi-s dedicated the temple to him. I want to smoke therefore labors, Tyburtind already cxftru&a, wherever restless, leisure litcra- It seemed that he was going to live, five local children lubricity, five fates of heaven ipfi half, as it may be said that he was hungry, the disease occurred, ex which Sajis in Campania, while I am already alive epigram met idrim Jliiter Adrian he would give him up, with violent hands imponensjuflumcdici, a potion of poison It does not exist, as it were, in the year of artatisCz Volatcrranus vuk, Imperii Se- pultus itiVtlla GceronisPuteolis, tem- ploejufdem honoripoftea locofepul- chri extructo Ofia his desire in the city was carried away in the AJrian mass by fe conftrufta depofit furunt, to use ex registration of ej3s so Here, therefore, another AJrimus, since already cf throughout the East and West. agraflet, for fua in rarer things greedy for the knowledge of the curious whatever in Greece and Egypt the smoke had covered him, he had been carefully examined it is written down, with that intention, as whatever fplendid magnificent Afta pofli- deret, in one village literary leisure the opportunity to rest rat, to transfer; and so that elsewhere in spread throughout the world, in this William, as if in the Third World a rare epitome of a certain translation he would present and this agreement is to be admired prrxdeceflorum Ca: farum monumen- so rare is the magnificence of this VtlU the higher they are, the higher they are among the cypress viburnums. And so, I was about three thousand years old in a few years innumerable people with the help of the multitude he broke out in a certain slope, according to the length of which Bo- real plague, with thousands of saris extended to the south. broad we found his condition varied, of which, where it is greatest, the fifth par- tcm fupradictx obtains the length. is surrounded by slopes and valleys, so that its environment is easy to fex mil- It reaches the pafliium in the circuit: prster I4J ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI of course, that outside of Ytilam records of several things They are seen stretching for miles. that I will close the clay parts of it, we are finished in order. But they were complureS; with great labors they accepted his registration; whom Fyr- Rhus Ligorius Architect Antiquarian
Efle, the perpetual governor of Tyburtine; who graphically rescued it from the ruins fane delineavit. 'quem pofteafecuti func Antonius Nicodemus, Antonius dcl (ftj, Francifcus Martirn, Antiquarian Tybur- tin which I have made for years of clay at the time of the Autumnal holidays proedtus, one part of the whole fabric I wanted to be examined, in which case: soon, here the curious eyes of Leftori ex- I thought it should be put. Te Ahifone Villse Adrianeaj. From Drianm Cxfar, as we have said, The village was suitable for convenience to be founded, as the ancient Empire the glory of the tore in marveling, who re- they had cleared, he would have covered the monuments, he would have used them he was very ingenious, and so, what- what is new and rare in the world and he found it worthy of admiration, in I was a village, in a sort of to contract the Epitomen of the Empire ("Blondo, in the main parts of he raised the dividend, so that the first expri- tirvijjo village he deserves the Lycttus of the Gracchus; the other Act half Atbenienfium, the third Prytd- no the fourth Canopus of the Egyptians; fifth Ttcilen for the variety of exquifitif- fimarum rerum fic di&am; Sixth Term pe Tbeffalix for favor from all the bus celebrated by the poets, whom he joined Fields of Elyfws; the best, not anything deeifetj lnferorum %egnum, equibus it must be done in order, as a factory; of the whole ri innotefcat Registration of the mushroom tarts. I will take all care and
care to know exactly I would, because I have time and leisure was lacking, so that in such a variety of things tate, than the snow of the ruins of the ruins and then they present piles, completely ex- to be wept, mine: to be doomed to curiosity poffim, hence anything in the Archives It was possible to find Ty burtinis, ftudiofe evolv- vi, among others Vyrrhus Ligorius Ar- chite&i Sc Antiquariicelebrerbimi, who almost yearly fpatio juflu SerenifTimi Prince Hippolytus Card. d'Efte Gu- bernator of Tyburtini, not a little fum- tis, I would prove this Ytllee conftitu- division of the parts of the mold bution notice, indefatigably, and the outline of which is on the map I express how much the matter is obscure he gave permission, he exhibited with a pair of more than the flimsiest explanation; who and on this and every other day cio Franafci Card. Sarberini to per- the memory of the matter is gathered together. Although Anthony Nicodemus, Antonius del I(e, Antiquarian Tyburtini, let us also work hard they have contributed to the chin. And to use here and now ixpUm. their chests do not rise, so this way not so much famous: Ylle fplendor magnificence into total oblivion the wine would be wasted, the cause of the public good to be published, and by my writings I was led to interfere; in which He will meet two times, that is one of my gifts I will explain in a few words. But now to the point ipfam Vbinam how much citefitfm gnldfkijiis pir- you defcri- OLD NO I really, truly, main fupramemoratx parts Yil- Le, Ljcteum, Academy, 'Bibliotbeca, Ca- nephew they exftiterint, tamctfifummo ingenuity trying to determine prxfum- the aforesaid Ligorius strikes, yet I confess the thing is, in the darkness of such old age lest, with so great an abundance of rubbish, there is no snow the plot of the plot was concluded in Poife. Etfi for innumerable: there are arcades, of rooms, rooms, rooms, thea and the remains: still fpe&en- tur, it is still difficult to conjeduraaffe- those who have had a to which from the chiefs on the other hand, let there be a few more rapid movements receive them, let them continue: first, when piifiura: , the names of the places, the registration with which the whole structure was packed fuiife cleaves, the injuries of the times perish it runs Where did we come from? bring some light to the fpe&ator they are, as Leclor from Hifce paucisveluti he gathers the lion from his claw, we will bring him. as I said, it is easy to get around to the fex he stretched out a thousand paflus in disbelief, force and vallibuf on every side on every side terftincla The main gate of this, as It is clear from the fuperfti vegetiges, from it partc fuiife seems, that Ponte Luca- He looks back at me, where he is still the son of the old him, to whom on the hill, the road was winding, rent fast In the frata of this: ferns road: at the border, a huge waste, not fu- just for the earth, fedScinfra it huge crowd of walkers therefore it is discovered, they are found and swift hofpitiorum together with areas, porches bus, camerifque, qua: everything, five fitum, fiveformafpecfes, diffcrunt, gates to get into them and pick them up harbor But the portxad went back On the other side, there is a high wall, innumerable in the receptacles, one of them was buried in the other, how many hundred cameras Tybur- tini, they call him, and the horseman, who was Carfare they were fidgeting rant, of which I desire more. Wounding M7 From here, as Ligorim casts, give there is an approach to that part, which; Ylomhn is called Picile, a double porch once upon a time they seem to be the most important for the conciliar work, all focus on two areas they divide the fields, feet in length, the third; part width It was also Pa-cile Athenienfiis urbkportiais, called IIoouAf) By agreement, for the sake of the various Picfles things that is, the place of the king's return, having been appointed, he will go with which he adorned Polygnotus of Athens pitfor the famous Hero of men It is believed that the images of the brave are painted not to another fibi to my propofito, riifi glory: to the immortality of the aspiring to the honor of the conciliar patriarch
impetuous Brought in the same omnl- the memorable meal of Miltiades against the innumerable crowd of the Persians position in the Marathon Fields riam afabre depinxiife; from which Pe- draw Miltiades, che 'Igrangiogo aGrecia tolfie To the humility and PaciksAthe- they called the ninfis, &cStoam, where Zeno Philophophus fua dogmas you were disciples, who and the desire of the Stoic gods they are, he said. Hadrianus Philophophia; praise is clear, and the old skill: admi- rator, this ad fua: relaxation of the mind he built a portico, from the grounds of which dung innumerable dwelling-rooms nor are they dependent, one mutual knowledge: shared knowledge cation, which; was carried out there, op- harbor Discovered not far away from through a narrow passage, the temple by the columns of the gods, ar- Prxlides exhibi bant, once no doubt intruiftiffi- mother whose walls are mixed with various marble rislaterculiveftiti, who the day they were found there, they were decorated. Adjacent to this mx the portico intrucf us, in the middle His temple was once a magnificent form ATHANASIUS KIRCHER5 VttrUin ricilc m "HmtRtit no doubt fplendidus, 8c through the gates accessible from all sides and from all sides; how exofitories exedrif- which, not only cx of the fountains to the fyphfciibs of the laughers, whose rapidity fpe&: antur; is collected. For the most part, indeed Once upon a time, the columns of the temple were burned everywhere, they saw various inaccuracies here, of the sea monsters, one hu- mana figuia mixed fchemata; There were no triumphal chariots, because different animals, horses, rams, lions, tigers, they were drawn and met they are bound by the passions which they drive distrusted by swans, doves, peacocks bus, and other fimihbus flying birds they were lost And such fuiffe conftatexe, which, tefte Lgonotempore of the Cardinal Hippolytus this in the same place of the brick of the di&isrerum there were winds that longed for al- wide, in the gardens of the Farnefios (palatini they were driven into the wall, and they fell fast in Tyburtmt the walls of three houses they appear to be walled. He also thinks Ligorim, not from here? far fitamfuiffe Btbltotbecam triple VUli. A row of rooms was opened, one with the walkers and the chamberlains the manner of temples, divers- which dining rooms, porches, fountains, other which with brilliantly elaborate ornaments, 8c as they went then the northern plain gamoccurring the walls of tatuarum dris intruclus; and another neighbor, who with which the garden is supposed to be included, many former dwellings divers re-cultivation; incujuslatere varia'ftatua- the swiftness of the rum is noted, bus through lead channels, water: to bal- for the children, or even to tame when they are found, they are suddenly found. Encountered by the neighboring slope a huge theater trum together with four diverforia, areas, and arcades, with columns they used to make squares: the pavements but they were covered with colored marble. And in this place he found ta: they were all, tefte Ligorius however, three pmer, mutilated: ca. Te partibmVillx yerfmplagam south. [NMeridionaliplaga primolocooc- "run the various courts, etc. lent: to Thermae ufus, together with the former mortgagees, which: aba- cisfuis to be fed properly they seem to have contributed. They are looked upon xyftike prepared for the lu&an&um, re- the receptacles, too, they were fending for themselves, and in the same place lu&andufeungebant, parie- to all with colored marble, and He was depicted on the knees that had once been bruised; poft ha: c, util conijcit Ligorw, diMtus Acaderaia? Whom do you call JMC? it is done was the circular temple of Apollo Mu- ff and dedicated, on every side on every side the outsider of the wall, columnar which is decorated with white marble as well as the manfiunculi and the receptaculif the place of this temple who was called Za-nw by ani- evils, where they were concluded. They follow the Priesthood, the Academic and diversities, with innumerable
porticibufquc to other neighboring houses where: they were surrounded by columns, walking and you diverge at length, because the approach from one to the other the other annexed to the house ban Around this place from the west plague, the places are fed together with a wave In the theater, where the hiftriones were said fc veftire, currftnimis, pantomimes, co- 9Mufi- co, tefte Ligorio, in the time of Alexander VI Bridge: Max: nine Muffarum ftatux discovered: By the way, here the Academy diftri&usha- but so many and so many courts, halls, and other things manfioncs, so as to be scarcely reduced to a number let OLD SE N O U M let them be, and be done To-day, to become daughters, Ltgorim, the curious explorer of all things, twenty halls with all these xishabitations of the Ephebeorum, Scho- larum, frontifterium, in which the youth was crowded together in the houses with those things, which to human life um deliciafq; quovismodoneceffa ria: they seemed, he notes. Integrx in it they were planted in fylvsduci, green, and vario ingenuity The water abounded as from the source (PttWMo, feu LacuFttcino Immense expenses were incurred in the country they drifted, although I before Traja iftiufmodi aquam already to the Tybur I will tell you about what place of the Aquxdudis Tyburtines. hope here and there the wall is still i4oopedes long, together with water impofito porticusfuiffe seems: ad Lycteumiaut VilLe extenfus. Extrude gerathunc placeAtiriawts to the norm and the form of Atbenie njis Academia, who tametfilocus effetmillepaflibusabur- be confident fterilitate fquallidus, so ta- Cimon's genius was then worshipped with springs of frozen waters, as well the light of the trees in the green in the five planted culture, as not in the manner of the Atbenian sheep Philosopher fed them far away phis, as Plato and fuifques in- terea Philofophicx exercise oc- He will give a cafion, so that even from eocapite They have obtained the name of academics. From this, therefore, we proceed diftri&u to Lycattm, the chamber was wasted, on every side Ruderib us magnificence: I adore born near whose factory Hadrian He had given up his exploits. Eratautum Ly- a place in Attica not far from Athens nis diffitus, fic di&us ixLycofandion to his son, tall bus, nor the perpetual green of the trees the most delightful planting of these, where from the Athenian Magiftratus Gymnafium Philofophores dris palxftrifque deftinatum, exftru- A T I U M. i4iJ Apollinius was the one, in which fioteles philofophica fua placata: you were he taught the disciples walking, whence tS (WO. 7ra. Tetv his fe&ators Pe- they were called the riparians. In this so and so Lycao Adriano to the friendship of Ly- cxi Atbcntenfis exftructo, pradongarum the rapids of the porticoes are detected, trees, gardens, and light in the garden they were all fpirating. the god of the Temple because the most magnificent tiara indications; nor here the Baths com- He lacked modesty, using the most lucid it can be seen as figs: indeed I found figs, poga: a, five, utivocarefolent, hypo- caufta, who through the ftri&um in the gallery the passage into another fornication a stick, boiling steam they were sending these canals rum drinkers who received how they were led, with the most ferocious air, canals waters they heated, then water in other ways the neighboring chambers of the faithful and hippopotamus intrude, warm into the womb of those who they were destroyed by the baths, they drifted away. They were and from the side of the manfiunculs forfan to fpoliandum in the veftium Diam deftinatx; where? things move smoothly while he teaches how in the cold old ones once used to heat new ones they are banned rumqitt ra th century sndontm. of Lycra why But now you are so prophesying, already progressing let's go to that device; portion which Adriamtes called Canopus. Eph but Canoptts, a city of JE. gypti. in which Bac- Canopus the channels of the fire of Dionysia or Neptune of Egypt, lias were celebrated in Egypt KctiiovSCanub, the same as Neptune notes, five God trusting in the waters
But it was a very pleasant place between two rivers Thannu for, ideft, the Gelus of the Gods, alocitum with abundance, then with abundance, once upon a time, the city was founded by Menelaus ta, of which see how abundantly a&urn T in I. Tom. A T H A N A S I in Oedipus of Egypt, Obelifcus Pampbilio, Prodromo Coptic, and elsewhere cis In this Canopus he is most famous Deafter of the Egyptians, written by Suida versed in various ceremonies and exotics He was worshiped by fuperftions, -hence Adria- with all the beauty of this place yEgyptiacif- every year they were carried away, incited; not every Vil- U (x) would seem to be deaf, the same Canopus he inferred. So within Pacilen 8c Acade- My Adriana was not obscured by this Canopy vegetiga cemunturin vallequa damlongiflame, in whose front the plum was round, today it is a thigh Canopus five dedicated to Neptune, various au- lis, cameris, xyftis ftipatum on both sides; and he emerged from the ruins, surprised I'm afraid, and the pen is barely ex- pliable fufle: that no one who wafti- he examines the state of the place, he will be infected, But it was within the two opposites a porch in the middle of the valley pro- intru&a, that water Mars to it filled the depth and breadth I K I R C H E R I tur, as in boats and boats theme to celebrate the Neptunian Games prxbcret capacity; and in this the loins of men on both sides are multi- tudo no&u for a long time creating com- mercantile waters; shame and end no shame, no restraint you are rich, singing, missing, swimming They relaxed in Canopic fashion, to whom Hadrianus, as we have given him in this way it was, so also fumo fuo guftu as well as this kind of love affair fpedtaculis, then obfcamis cantilena, with his hair, and danced, which was huge with they were carried out there in confusion, a a little freer for more serious business, de- he was led Deniquelocumfuiflefon irrigated from all sides, from ruins, where the openings of the channels into this and each other fpedantur, it is collected; are seen in some places fcalce feu cochlides so conftituGE, that from one side ad- from the other side whether they are continually returning which end of the obstacle to grant
The rest of the villages, where Hell and the Plains are EIyfii, Prytaneum. Y7"Erfus a valley is encountered, on the side of which the vault is still intact, in place who today is called occa bruna, is Sc J E S U to Sancius Andreas Sjo; e, where every year the smoke fane commo with wealth as if in one's own country Increment; safely, didr. a; Adrianece Ydlz exploding waste rumor rare conceuurnfu; t And this place, Ligorio fk Nicodemus tefte, lo inferorum cus is thought to be a little, in which by water Hadrian exprefled the two fubterraneos rateos, because poets are mentioned, flu- Vios, Pblegetbontem, Cocytum, Letben, together with various hypogaris, of which the walls of the underworld, the vessel Danaidnm, the Wheel of Ixion, and the daughters of Depicted by poets, Lampridia tefte, they were considered This summer with the ichnography Academy joins: others in this place the little servants' custodians They are afraid of those who are afraid of chains were loaded sound tremors, then you- with a lot of screaming, hell-horrible I will give, and a full meal of confusion They were appreciative. Not so, think some of the Eyfii Elyfios Campos was also despised by Hadrian "my" exftru&os, together with reprefentation Tempe Tbeffalos in which, what- what is delightful and delightful could be rare, the splendor of the five Halls and the magnificence of the gods adorned with nobility and piety, five failing springs, and not of the gardens fried ii. OLD NO I delight in gardens and greenery a variety of fpedes it was being played; also many other things not obscure, as is clear from the map, fuper- they are Reptat r? ytaneum, that Ligo- riiti thinks fuiffe in the extreme VdU par- I will expose you to the South. But it was a place of Prytane um Atbenis, in various dwellings, halls, and chambers rich in which the Judges fummo with ri- gore juftitia: , cau-
they were doing so. In fact, to use Halicarnassus he said; What were these rhythms? public places, whose care belongs to to them, who was the Magistrate in get public Or, the utilitarians will, in by which the soldiers retired, wounded, and infirm with favors, common fumpi bus, to our great princes they were nourished by the greedy example. What in- when he was pleased with Airianus, his wife what is planned in Fua Villa At- which ha: c are, qua: for innumerable a multitude of things to remember I have endeavored to explain in a few words. But now nothing else would be of use, like snow it is necessary to exfoliate the parts of the mold V U M L A T I U M. x5t of the whole by Hadrian in Tyburtine field of incomparable magnificence ex- ftruda: the ichnography is attached here let us look more clearly. spin mi" Francifcus S. R. E. Card. liJ Sarberinus, of many men of letters impetuous in supplication, he was the first to do something new and the chin partly from Tyrrbi Ligorii An architect's drawing, once a juffu Card. Hippolytus Eftenfis perada, com- pilatampartimopera& ftudio FrancU fci Contini viri rerum antiquaru peritif- the dung shall not be returned to the anvil va dimenfion corrected omnibuf which numbers finally washed away a. -ri in- he took care of him with such extreme care and diligence, so that his treachery is no more to be seen to approach; than to this prxfcnti Latius juffi the work of the underworld. Since but dida clinography has a greater effect, how to place it conveniently in a book fet, we for the bulk of the work to facilitate comprehensible I will return to the epitome, here before the eyes of the curious BRIEF COMPILATION Tracijuorum Locorum, qua inprafenti hujm Villx Icbmgraphia fpectantur. klftridus letter ABCD figna- you Tbeatrum didum fuiffeLigo- the river brings, because theaters, circuses, hippodromes, and other innumerable fa- bricks, such as porches, walkways, xy- ftis, veftibulis, delubris, cceterifque lo- cis, qiKEtum fcenicistumgymnafticis He was eager for exercises, adapted has been He had innumerable hairpins the dwellings of the soldiers safe Diphtridus II litera Efignatus, con- He held that part, which; a variety IlowiX of the ground of the expreffarum ibid Vacilez GrecitePa: ctle ficdi&a. was; trijs, ambulacris, periftiliis, fans crowded together Diftndus III letter F finnatus, shows the judgment of Ligorius BLIOTHECJE how Adrian's huge factory and for every convenience of those who are in literature and good arts they wanted to lie down with the extrudes he had founded a gathering, a theater, a walk- criss, temples, baths, greenery didiflimam: contains neighboring fa- the ruins of bricks, how they are fixed risGHI. Diphtridus IV was fixed to the letter K, Canopus was said to be the form of Canopus The Egyptians were expelled by Hadrian; of the more quickly I am in those who walk see Diphtheria i5a A T H A N A S I I Diftri&us V, fixed letter L, olirrij present the Academy bat more than the Gracchus to the Athenians Apollinck, and other fans and deluders, nor not theaters, arcades, halls, ambulatory cris, viridariifque to the Philophophants very well adapted Diftric"t. usVI, fignatuslitera M, In- the kingdom of the beasts; a little while, Campos Elyfios fuma of manufactures to all the variety of exftru&arum presented Diftri&us VII, signed letter N, Ly- Athenienfe expressed the sea, water: du- with these ca; terif fabrics, such as temples, porches, promenades, gardens, bal- nor to a magnificent town a while ago Diphtrid VIII, signed letter O iPrytane um Athenienfius, my old friends fenio ftinatum The letter P It was a valley with trees on both sides You have lost every charm, nor not streams of clear water cultivated streams, Adrianm T H E S S LA TEMPE, don't do anything riches Villce fux deeffet, to be called con- he was born What ver6 Theatrical and all the producers ca? , quid Pcecile, quid Bibliotbeca, Aca- demia, Canopus, why the Lyceum? neum, Tempe, of the underworld, Elifio-
and the kingdoms of the Fields want to join him, in before the first chapter of this town we excommunicated you, to which: the reader re- I will send So from this Ichnographic Adriane defcriptione, Ledor, in- the lively and unheard of of this town: ma- significance (which none of the Omanis fum of ptuofis fplendidior, nor more abundantly, nor by the rarity of the constructions il- she was a fierce fighter, to collect fat and fat you will be able to However, the hidden judgment of God that is, not for a duration of years he did not understand And from this time Le&ori was clear human conditions K I R C H E R I how shy of all things deaths, which no one is not surprised by this device will be able to collect. Vi- Hadrian I was a third of the name gloriam fuperba tk invifa hac non Vd- in"rimt la, fed civitate mtegra ea magmhcen- gnifumne. the two, which we have reported, were destroyed; fed as soon as he broke it, so quickly was given to the fall, so that no the hands of the scribes before Sparta whether he who remembers it, found fue laughs Antoninus fucceflore, the first sending ornaments to the hands, as iisTher- but the Romans, whom they con- he had decorated, he had decorated. Itadumunus He steals the glory of another, and so everything for the same variety they are Just like Villa Hxc is truly a Villa The queen lies so disfigured that she does not cry looking at the corpses and corpses of the palaces river, all full of bushes, fpinis, fen- ticetifque obfita, to use rccle Gobelli- nut he will write hiftorias: ExtraVerbem, said Hadrian at the third mile The emperor built a noble town 1it is inflated by the great city of which they exist still the foothills of the Temples streams ccrnuntur i? cubicle halls lorumquefemidiruta buildings, Yifiunturpe- of rivers, porticos, pificinas, Thea- and a great deal of money; i? where I will give the ImperialeSolium aclefli fulgorefplen- debating everywhere in the world of manufactures, and their conflruciio Elyfos Campos wherefore it was seen; where Purjmratifedere ma- gna cumpotefiate to the Tribune, ibid you find nothing in the bushes; %eginarum The chambers of the Jupiter and the dwellings of the toads; adebrermnmor- such a flustered and mistrustful nature. Few, however, have so little at this point at the time when the Villa was closed, I will open the truth: for the truth is hidden from them the pious secret of the Divine; so- what a fictitious thing it is. Poft abfolutam VilU fingularumquc cmfaii- the fabric of the parts, nothing else it was due, as Enca: niafummapompa and to be celebrated with enthusiasm; and since He was dying, because of the immense demand from the Romans to the Caspians VETllS 8e NEW LAT I U M. Ca-faribusexaltatasfabriarummoles, Holy Martyrs in- to make with the gods; hence Alria- j he had poured out human cruelty nusmHercuki's work in Japan, Hercules would play with the outpouring of the mud in the did he cease to offer a facrifice, as a propitiated human rium Whence the diabolical impetuous infintin Adnanus, and the augur, I trust him impious in the harmless fan of Cbriftians he turned his hand to the wine; but had understood, Tybure Getidium Scnato- the thing that was with the univerfa house fua A fool would not worship Christ's faith, ed8 innumerable, intercede ros Cereakm Caefaris intimum, to ean extrutt. im he died Christianity ours Cereal nor Cbrifii fidtmcct verfm sr martyrdom dem fuffcipendam traxiffe t and adeb preferring the facrifice of Cadare
the tormentors of the soul it happened which disease is used by doctors auwE The infallible Ville was adfcribetura- ita also the delights of the Bajas ris cceli ufu Caffarem changed ftation, tiifi die mallct, iriu must, Medici iXt the strength of the soul is greater and greater, since it was delivered, as already of a longer duration The young man was wounded, and the doctor died the toxic cup to be thrown there laughs 8s. cumMedicusmanuminCa. fa-. to send your life to me unaided ri not poffe, than fi Getulius with uni- j spinning, flying with a hairpin, I take it the verfadomo Hercuh would dedicate Tybur- left to be ordered to be executed, who
given the fietidinm with Cereali. Auan tio TrimitiVo fibi reprimanding him with harsh words, jurarc praxis, when in faith cautious poft car- candles and flames citari juffit; I want to turn the fury fihtm tensad Sympborojam feptem ejusfi- ftimmwti lios, which you understand fibi fifitens, ad exhort to swear the Chriftian faith it is taut, that if they did not to be delivered to death by my guns rent But San&i tarti the desired crown of Martyrdom, while unfaithful, negligent They took the lady. Why is everything confusing? vindicated by faith, nis love death for life, ate. na force t prremia pra; the wealth of which it is surprising that they have chosen to pass away. Lnde the most cruel to one is all death they were of all kinds! alutis noftra. . in the year curn innumerable others %ma Many things have been understood before, including S-E"Ji-cbms, cu}m Archiftrategum ege- rat, together with his wife and five sons, he laughed. In the meantime the hidden work of God revenge, unknown to Hadrian Medical infirmity, and flu xu correptus, as whose information I'm running death would do, finally thaan appeared, from which it immediately disappeared us, merits fcelerated life: tranfa5ta He gave pennies. Behold the manifestation of God due to the completion of adeb fasvas lest you exercise vengeance. Spar reports tianusmte ohitum Adrtanus tenderly affci5tu protulifle fequent verficulos; Animula "vagulalhlandula, Hofpes, and the whole body But now you will go to the place where Thin, stiff, thin, No utfoks, you will AntoZ ntus Piits, when behold S ipfe new in the city of Thermas was to be raised. when about a broken stomach a little affected I will price anything in Vtlla Adnanea finds, in the baths of the fpleh- Antoni- it brought pain; which then Got bi, Jll Sc poftea varix- rcvolutiohes in ulti- ViUas they dedecrunt mam vaftitatem, so that ZL its downfall, not in the intervening years cefferint. tyrio thus Baronius in the known Martyrol. Field T)'burtino exjiat Vetus me- moriajam collajfa cenfeturque ilk lo sand, where S. Symphorofa pradctos Martyres fepsliVit De- from there ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI hence in the Roman Martyrology thus read: Rome via Beati Getu- lii clarijfimi ijr doBtJsimt Vtri, fociorum- that Cerealis, Lovers, (sr. Primitives, who was a judge of the emperor Hadrian d Licinius Confular in custody at first cxfi, then in car- I burned the wax, and afterwards it was brought to the fire, when in no way should the fujltbus be removed from the fire Illifo capite MartyriumcompleVere, qtto- rum corpora Symphoroia B. Getulii he gathered his wife, and in the sandbox prxdiiftdfe peliYtt. i. cmra That sandstone is still excavated in Yta s' Tybure was exhausted, he was still unwell rofe ar- pervetuftx Ecclefia; from the early Chriftians once in honor of SS. ex-martyrs stormy; fpe&antur, where and the property of St. Sympborofe Fuiffe is delivered, still he will be pofled by Majfius from Patritia; noble of the Roman state; iamilia, where Symphorophis the pore was filled with thirst, and even the nettles with The sons of Feptem were polished off in the same place they were; what place do you want the manner of the Greek voice to Seven toS-a. va. THS, that is, to fcptem Martyrcs They called him a violent death. True, with the fucceffu of time Longo- the invasion of the bards, lest the Roman Terri- thorium would be destroyed by fire and iron, forrf. S1. Pope Stephen III removed from here pora %omatn tranflata in Ecclefia S. An- He kept the gelium piffericore; itaBa- ronius Via Tyburtina is considered noble VetttftaS. Symphorofa; memory Ho- rum reliquueKomzm tranflauac you know "temporbm inVente fimt in Diaconia S. The angels entered the Ttfcarius, from the urid with the ipfis a plumb plate inscribed with these herbs: HicrcquieJhtntSS. Martyrs Sym- phorofa; , Ytri ftti Zotici, of his children whose bodies were transferred to Stephanus Tapd; Getulius is also found to be more powerful than Zoticus. And that nothing should be seen here is still shown in Ecciefia S.
Eighteenth century smoke vault; of devotion, in which S. "Symphorofa with your sons, fasvi at the time of completion Dere was rejoicing, as Saronius cited he suggests instead. In the market every Hercules The temple was once covered with an elm tree, from which Symphorofam juffu cafaris hair ali- vtmxTy. bore in the noftra of Tiburtini colligij Ec- phorofi clefia still cross-shaped fummaS. it is presented with reverence. But this time they were as fast as they could have been commemorating the martyrs, and the argument of the Vtllas Tyburtina then let us proceed. C A P U T IV Villa Syphacis S? g#Numidia: . On hearing about the smoke mnibufq; clothed with goods da&us, he was hiding the bottles. Sypbax so- that because of the fubadus of the enemy involens, by Scipio finally ipfe poft conquered Car- shunned by the thagin, the host of the Omani it was Scipio Majfaniffd into the kingdom it was that Sypbax armed him with violence he had rescued the rum, having recovered, gem {omam YinBum juflit to be led, who Some time ago rans, at last in Tyburttnam YtUam fibi He conceived it ready, where unhappiness escaped; deploring the fate, from how much power you have He trusted that he would fall at the top of both Kingdoms, (Iomans Africans washed away the domain fpe devoured rat, turning fortune to the last fantasy barathrum praxipitatum fe vi- would give But let not the King of such a name live He would live more than was fitting, own you are doing Rcg. OLD NO own expenses ipfi Ydlam for housing tion not favorable to the leaves, fed and lovely fabrics red- to teach, where fate takes hold. They look forward to it of this still in Via Fa- leria, in the place of di&o to S. Marcellus. He tells Ligorim, I was a spring at the time made of white marble with two shells, in which the water was received they spilled out other extra greedy stuff, con- an intruder; the whole mass was funny there is a support in the form of the feet of a lion our team It was also discovered at the same time and in the same place V M LATIDM r5j beautiful in the form of a cross ctum, within which feneftelk cerneban- tur in the circuit of placing the lighting of the that I should be deprived of the lamps. Monuments outer length fathoms, breadth I was twenty. But the interior is long palm width in palms. was extended Find out more most of the marble fragments gmenta, Paulus V Pontifex brought to the fabric of Sacel li Deipara: , Ecclefia: Santl. e rU Mayor's adorning life
Villa Zenobia Palmyra %egmx. Triumph Zenobius Jteghte in the city Splindor great fiction Rcgitia; fanciful tlotct. 'yEnobianlh OdenatiRcgma Palmy of the kidneys twice with Aurelia no %oman Emperor infer ergia prxlio, fe geflit with such strength of mind, that nampartivtftoriacederet, hardly difpici it will pop; finally, even if confused he wears, surrounded by confidence, and ipfa fafces S(omanorum to yield co&a, ahJurelia- when you were sons two years ago, Cbrifti Among the rest of Cajfar's triumvirate phos and pomps, none, Blondo tefte, %omx or fplendidior, autmagnihcen- It was more lively. Indeed, Zenobia so many and so many precious jewels to the barter, as to the weight of the non-frcndo feeffe complaining, to some extent whereas, it would be necessary to whistle a parade; walk from the bare golden rings they waved hands bound with golden chains: too much they pierced the neck with the glare of their eyes as well as a chain of pure gold then there was the extremity of which was from the Perficus Praxonetenebatur. Inftuporem they seized the astonishment of the passers-by hearts in a strangely heroic way: Re- gina: endowment by nature; in a woman not alive: moreover, he possessed an intrepid spirit vigour, royalty: splendor of dignity in look strength in undertaking the op- portuneconfilis, in the eyes while prudence is fuming to those in power, incredible splendor in to- His body shone brightly; as long as The temperature of the teeth is brown The whiteness shone like pearls in it ears, not having teeth rent: a clear and virile voice, accompanied by fever He lusted after his death: his captiousness
Fopifcus will write so much fuiffe, that no one He would make him a husband, after being tempted by the snow conceptions Ipfa finally both having experienced a huge heart, so embraced by the conception of the Emperor, in a certain town of the Territory of Tyburtini He lived his life to death. gua: Perfica: , Gixcx, UunxtJEgy0-rl'Mbi UacEhaud inexperienced; walk on foot fa: pe so fxpiflime fe exerccre he loved. In menfal apparatus fplendidiflima; in Cleopatra's feasts trre Regina: JZypti, cui fe fanguine af. he was saying the end, with golden cups in he used gcmmats. Of which Petrar- cha: Kehuor the female fil so strong Cbe col bel Yfoy e con I' armata cbio- Fece temer, cbiper nature fprexga. loparlo dell' imperio alto di Rome Cbe with my arms I do, bencbealh the last Foffe i$J A T H A N A S I I Fojfe al nojlro Trionfo ricca mold How even before life works tur, Chrijli imbued with faith fuifle, 'Baro- Nius in the Annals reports adannumxy. The truth about the affairs of this King he who trusted more, let him go to Ytta Akre- of the emperor Village Ze- Wherever inT erritorioTyburti- I'm sorry. with these words, where does Zenobia act, declares To this from the Emperor of Aurclian re YiVere concejfmnfnit; furturque lixijfe with the children already in the usual manner given to ftbi pojfefttone in Tiburti, which hodte Zcnobia it is said, not far from the palace of Hadrian, and from that place, which is called Conche I mean the words of Ligorius made, Vtllam Zenobue fuiffe near the lake, how ful- they call it the Purata, the bath of the noble tately famous, where Marcus Agrippa bric fumptuofiflima; ad ufuf Ther- exftruda of the seas, to whom Auguftum Caftarem was chosen by the town fuilTe fcri- they will be Authors, and in this day and every day and fifemirutajfpedantur; , of which from several If anyone has Zenobia hfc tafle will say he does not complain incongruously i K I R C H E R I I will grow because of the infallibility of the air in the place this is an inconvenience to the dwelling having acquired it, he mows with me in the neighbor's house in the place where the estate of Antonius in he is a citizen, con- he will breathe, whose manifestation the ancients sat the ruins of the works, which are still to be found there happen, they are an indication, where Ligoriote- i{e, in the time of Hippolytus Cardinal Eften- fts, dete&um fuifle marble the one in which nine images of Muffa they are elaborated by work, and not far from this place, which Hill The irons say, kFrederic CtftoDaced' j{SiW"' Acquafparta found fuifle bracelets au- crimes, and borders, who moved to the world fpe6tant the hare, vain found the fuifle Anthony delxektt. Hence the verification le eft, in the place where today predtumS"' An- thunders are seen, Vdlam Zenobix fuifle, in hill ver6 Ferri ejufdem sepulcrale mo- numentum, clearly Vopifci defcrip- corresponds to the For in this and that way day place Tybur between ScLacumAlba- he interjected Conca still di- it is cited, and is scarcely two thousand miles from the villa of Adriani it is covered with straws, as in the Reader's Map it will be clear
ViHa Csfaris Augufti. A Vthor of the Heroic Syntagma, among other things, which reports about Mecanate, him from Re- gio fanguine priests of HetruriieLu- cumonymf, whom both kings and dynasties they were calling, the coward had sprung up, indeed the futility the last, which there is no doubt from that Horatian Yts edite gibus) he learned. Aldus Manu He was also called Cilnium he teaches a coward. Here the field of Tyburitno was deleted (Beginning, using the wealth of all things He flourished, so also with the rejected things with the tumults of the public, he was Muffs, into which I naturally leaned He was made of a good weight, clurus, Ytllam in the last Tyburtind of the city slope, with every kind of delicacy he pulled out the carriage, as he had just we decided to enter the doors. Tametfi Ligorius embraced this Vtlla defcripferit, because still and I his ru- for nearly a year, when Tybur I was allowed to go xion I examined, what from both de- a description more appropriate to the truth was the judge became a le&oris. First, indeed, Verfus Septentrio- ff nem fpe&atur the great steep slope of VMs.
precipice, to which Ytllx fubftruclions, to this day and to this day is still intact ffeftantur, they relied on, let it not be surprising that there was no fane none of the materials of the Romans dat, percuiusmeditullium VtaValeria Y" Va, spread to Samnttes 'Peltgnojque ltu- rice with amazing bows cameras even
OLD NO still in vain fpicuous; with these bows the bow con- crane, so that the Via Valeria midway between on both sides of the arches, a thin place rit, as the gate is blocked today they call it a dark transit. True they should be conceived but I was afraid to add it here. Above this child ftrucliones, founded by Vdla Meceenatis in the way that it is made. He had she, as far as from fuperftity still Fa- you may pick up the bricks, two of the columns orders, one to the other, Doric Ionic labor as fcitiflime ex. co&is the sides of the frame are very firm very large abacuses: cer- they are known manarum nafcuntur leader of the gallery in the circle moreover, the exterior of which vnuMs- with every bottle of plains ccnates gam fumma fpeftare with amcenium it was permitted; hence totiusLahVeterisdiftri- I turned the water to the south; on the other side Sabina The territory of the region from Occafu, there cir- chained by cumfuforum mountains and the beast together with the formidable Anienis valley; here to the rise of the Trceneftino fields Labicans, Gabios, Tufculans, far and wide the plain At the height of the inner circle was the atrium con- he was flying, about which he longed. Within two half- ce portico various chambers halls that the sea-birds are seen; which: however not from any other place than the port of the lost they receive the light of your apcrture; for with all diligence rim, but none in the dikes of the chamber neftra, ux Jumen admits, to find li- cooked, so that it is hard to conceive, I could just live comfortably in them rint, when they were opened, they were imported do not be cruel to them it was I will stop, hold on bras, light, no candles they had no help, nor the number of fireplaces in it is marked. The truth of the present a bus therefore the conversion of V U M L A T I U M. nor of those who went to Meccrnat in the great They gathered in number, where, as it were, in the Stoa co rifque genius to the wolves, and every genius fuo indulgcbat me Rurfum in the inner court, another thing it flared out, as if from the rapids of the walls appears, a storey, whose lower con- lineage, as Ltgorms conjectures, contains bat the most beautiful fabric of the spring, which; on all sides I put the water in the rum receptacles, and then put it in the oven domcfticum, as well as for pleasantness to win majesty instead, was spreading Above this floor the first one to be molded by the torches tification he was aflame; where did i go tation of the patron to every hu- mana; vkx ufum commodiflimam a coward, I think; what a palace indeed iftiufmodi parti fingula di- ftribution was established, defi- with hundreds of vcftigii, nonnificonje&u- We are ready to finish the job, and so you are this fabric, not what it really was fed as he could and should in fche I tried to express my mate. find out tur pmere among other things to afcenfum viUse The fans of the Oclanguli were quick and furious supported by columns, one of which is still The Church of Su- MarU del pajfo fupereft, elaborated as much as possible. Verfus oc- cafumquoque Ligoriut detexifle feait in a beautiful order of lights around the di- of the fpophytes, through which they came to the town afcenfus was given; today the rich brick place in the most beautiful village first from Tbeobaldini, just a Cocconerii, who are local poffeffers, ex- worship in such a way as to give the porch nothing else can be seen. the town as it was once extruded from Macenate, We present it in the following form.
In this Villa Macenas smoke with quietly wincing, with the greatest of pleasures He encouraged his spirit, free from all ambition fade away from the remote motif, whence ncmo Augustus is dearer and more familiar to him, so V as it A T H A N A S I I as the world, with which it was pressed, the mass, the the multitude of affairs, tate feffam to relax somewhat, ad AugnRi this Vdla as if to make an anchor cenatcm8" ram' u' M. tcmitis confutude fru- jfiSi and he was going to take refuge. And use Miecenas fem- by a liberal generous spirit tim was towards the literate, and so was the man do&iflim his fame alledti on all sides They flock to him from all sides, whom he fed them all at his own expense It is not just a matter of literature dignified service with praise did not believe Pmmto danter fuperafluentere: whence his oratorltmq r i. .i f o T dmumho- fmgulan hberahtate mumhcentiain Repeatedly, it happened that on this and every other day, those who foster the interests of men of letters, Me- dinners deserve to be heard. Among others a man of incredible love bcnevolence Virgius and Horatius advanced, by the conversion of which I was afraid to be afraid it seemed, whence to mu- I despised the opportune worship of the lighthouse the least letortm fnmtaw supporter Kircher He took care of the things he wanted. Of Mttcenate Pli-timml reports three worthy of commemoration niusj. y. c. ji. the first, namely, fever he would labor perpetually, from the same; book ever squeals; then for a full three years He had never had the benefit of anyone; tcrtio that the first affine la&entis to- Mscena-. x L t i r. r us mirtt here, the flesh to be eaten praucrrple- Macenas is about to die, after so many years Awflum hofpit will receive in it, a. f C VilUeAB. each of whom he threw with so much enthusiasm. it is carried conftituifle, as hence or ex not only Macenatus in this chapter, fed Augufti Cxftaris Villa to this day be called, in the opening of the arch which obfcu The light was shining on the marble the table was inscribed, collected; than from me I have decided to add a selection here: fic he has: C. RUSTICIUS C. F. TRAVEL. L. EIGHTH L. F. Calf. IV MAN. Mr. S. S. THE WAY TO BE INTENDED to take care I really am I don't think the name L. O CTAVIUS, to fall in this place fupra OSLAVtum Auguftum, fed fupra one of the two roads of this name curator Therefore, the patronage of this VilU fua: hxredem Auguftum confti- tuifle, demonftrafle in those who practice let it flow Another hfc registration in Aldus Manutius reports the wind than Ligorius from locofuodilapfam in Ecleftam S'1 Sylveftri tranflatam fuiflc He will write, however, with all care it was not allowed to find it used there. Here is the tenor of the words. C. LUCTIVUS L. F. AULIAN. QJ? C. F. Varus L. Ventidius C. F. Bassus. QOCTAVIUS C. F. GRAECIN. III. MAN Porch P. AND EXSEDRAM AND PRONAON And the portico. PUT SCNAM LONG. P. But this they fufEciant of the Villa Mectnatti.
VIIXA 'QUINTHI' VARI 0Pm(iUI CASARIS AUG-USTI Blank inserted to ensure correct page position
OLD N O V U M LATIUM. . lii The town of Quintilius Varius Confulus Vartus worthy to be confulared tate of the others, nor Cafart pro- Pincus, from Augustus to Germany I was the year the city was founded; , cbntra The same son of Sermhen, mtis prinapem: from which three of his legions on the inside it is more desirable than the farth of the Omani fub They brought Lrajfo, the greatest of all, with so much horror indignation Augufti's mind was shaken by this The authors refer to you as the head of the even if he did not, he would repeat it again and again: mtlritut. QuintilU de pera&a, surrounded by hips, since there was no way of escaping from the trap if he finds it, I will turn it into a sword killed: his corpse was given to the fire, and fe- the furor of the court was divided into a thousand parts previously the head was diffracted, which {oi7 brought forth, in the fulcrum of the elders the rum was replenished see the Old Man and the Appia-
whether Alexandrian Varus therefore how defcri- we took some time, the founder of Fuinruec reg'one Macenatu, five Augufti, ke. beyond Aniene in the place of the editors It is clear from the map that he had to use it; it was exftrutla magnificence, as with Vtlla Maceuatis somehow, which fum- with which the magnificence becomes alive. They return to this and every other day not to be despised, as I saw with my own eyes examined I will explain. He had grown on a very fine slope, fu- for which at first some of the whole ca: as a foundation foundation The figure is seen to be almost in a state of disrepair; enter whose pcnetralia cifterna vifendam fe pra-bet, in the ranks of the fires, by-which it was given to the waters of the dead, which we were comfortable; base this chin another fane-excellent palace exftru&um fuiffe is collected from cojW the manars of the abacus, and of the lemnifcis, cceterifq; with ornaments, such as of shells, enter which the water is very slippery, and then to the bottom domestic, as well as to delete ctation was derived from copiofa vici- nor the fcaturigine of the fountain, which into this and that day near the Canon of S. Mtchaclu Ar- changeliuod in Tajola is said, fupereft, was brought down, and the canals of the old hydra- Gogqui is a dangerous road for those who walk they have been met with great difficulty, they clearly demonstrate fed from here below in more numbers. Circahoc the palace, leaving a huge courtyard to exercise in fun and games born but this is something else in fpecu- lam terminated, from which to use extotia spread far and wide around the palace the plains of Latium, He exhibited the most beautiful skin: Sc to wash away with a word trizonium device display his face from his rapids, it is clear Spring with hxc not snowing eyes they can be written in a demonstration, this Joco veris there was smoke Antonius del%ein tells the ancient but you were in Tyburton, the abode of all The floors of this Vilhe are expensive with stones fuiffc teffellated work, or fi you prefer the art of the ftratajquilapides, use different colors of gems they strove to inftar, in any case in the manner of the gazers ban; which: then first detedkc fue- runt, when Cardinal Montinus hil rufticaturus %oma propuliflet Here he trusted the stone at the price of Sc beauty, guicqitid ln radenbus firniliumkpidum rcpcriri potuif, con- geffit, and the work of twenty oxen partly other princes, he turned precious deer into a gift, so utinhuhc day hardly any more they are Form. i fallacy trinity Fa&rica fiftrha Vile nose ATHANASIUS KIRCHERl
Te Ponte Lucano, Plautiorum fepukkro town. "As soon as you cross the oma coming a bridge of two thousand fathoms Falling down, the tower will meet you round, not akin to it, which Qoime to the Htppodromum CaracalLe fpcciatur, in general dida, Capo di 'BoVe; this was it 'Ptowfamilixfepulchrum, juxta duo- ten Tables, {ux fepulchra illuftrium I did not build a house outside the city they commanded Once upon a time there was a fane monument, but with old age records, and the fat holds long, with five once hfc fuiffe, Hiftorici bring the Tyburtini, in which Tlautius a glorious house, honours, and dignities tes, with the duties, those in (epublic The Omanis were funcli, in size write down The plebeians of Tlautius took part called Faelion by the surname of Varius to suffer for froculi, Hypfei Vero- And among the rest of this family C. fhutim (proculus, conful anno vrb. conditx conquered the Greeks, and He brought them a triumph, he uses mTables Capitol the same from C. the first He obtained the dictatorship from the people, ipfe the first of the plebeian magifter knights (It was a pig; so LiYtus L again P. Plau- Tius Vroculus Confulatum died Vrb. Cond. dumdomi pari- There was peace abroad three times. confule Lexicon %omanmn Glandorpii Check out the registrations here Marcus Vlautius the son of Syphoanus who was a colleague of Ctfaris Augustus the tenth third and Cepharis was conflated The legate of Tiberius, in the year Vrb. Cond. y a. uthoibusDione ScVelleio. But we attach jaminfregistrations.
The first registration of the major letters. L. Plautius M. F. A. N. SILVA COS. VII. R. EPULON THIS SENATE. TRIUMPH ornaments. He decided OB. THINGS IN. ILLYRIC You are doing well. ARTISTS. GN. F. WIFE M. Plautius M. F. VRGVLANIVS Ann lived Another table of Infricistion to the end he needed it twice, and thus also the fuk was drawn up with little letters, in that tenor which fe- quit PONTIF. MEMBERS Aug III. MAN A. A. A. F. F. Q. TIB CSARIS He reads LEG. V. IN. GERMANY pr: URB. OLD NEW LAT. iUM; PR VRB He reads E T. Comiti. CLAUDH C. fisaris. IN. BRITAIN. Consul PROCUS ASIA He reads PROPERTY MOSES INQUA. SEVERAL. QJIAM. HUNDRED. THOUSAND to enumerate TRANSDANVVIANORVM AD to stand TRIBUTE. CVM CONJVGIBVS A. C. Libius AND He began A V T. RULING SVIS TRANSDVXIT MOTIV. EAST. SARMATAR He pressed QVAMViS. PERFUME BIG ARMY AD Expedition. I N. SENT ARMENIA Inl0"- ANTE' AUT- INFENSS PR KING signs ROMAN adoration IN. B. IPAM. QVAM TVEBATVR PERDVXIT REGIBVS B AST ARN AR V M ET of the Roxolians. CHILDREN DACORVM BROTHER captured AVT. HOSTIBVS Rescued RELEASED BY SOMEONE. EORVM. TOWNSHIPS He took it. THROUGH WHAT PEACE PROVINCE AND. He confirmed it. AND brought out SKYTHAR. QVOQVE. THE KING of Acheron IS BEYOND EORVSTEEN siege SVMMOTO FIRST EX EA. PROVINCE IN A BIG WHEAT WAY ANONOM P. R. brought it up. THIS Legation IN. SPAIN AD PREFECTVR VRB REMOVE VM SENATE IN. PREFECTVR T RI UMPH ALIB US ornaments. honored THE AUTHOR IMP" AUGUST VESPASIANO FROM THE WORDS PRAYER. EJVS Q I. S. S MOSES YES. PRFVIT VT. N O N. DEBVERlT HNOR. TRIVMPHALIVM AND VS ORNAMENTORVM. EXCEPT QVOD Er It happened. DELAY. TITVLVS. PRINCIPLE OF WORDS AVG. VESPASIANVS. Again and again. COS. He made CSARj C A P u T V, You Villa Rubelli. U tfi. Which is below written they are The writers of the world I riuntur: first C. (itbellius n coxtaneus Ciceronis, &ha; res (hThurii, with some other com- mcndatur QXomificio Other C. %ttbel- lim Gemini Conful ib Tiberius, anno City Cond. Tertius C. ubelKus 'Weeping, born of Tiburte Knight Ro- man, into whose house Tiberius sent he marries Julia, the daughter of Drufus. no wife Ipfe is called a refuge Tacitus l. his son Uhelius 'Planctpumzttem luliam pariacKe- ro degree Augtiftus contingent, the first into exile with his wife Jniiftia shored by Nero, eager for thousands of soldiers the bus is killed, head back to the city Iato, lta Taatus Suetoniiu in Nero; and of this Juvenile speaks issue Sat, Hu I qttem momti, my son is with you in the case of Rubelli Pknce, swellings high DmCorwnfanm, ; not, as if You will do whatever you want, because of what lisejfes To this man, he was alive, in Rep. the merits of Cornelius Tacitus Defcnbit: Ouaft already depulfo Nero who was chosen, was chosen, and so on In the voice of Rubellius Placus (some pro Plautus reads (Tlanctu) celcbratur, to whom nobility through his mother from the Julia family. Ipfe )ero, cafta isr fecretadomo, and how much I put ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI more hidden with fear, having gained so much hunger On the other side of the same Vanity arose between the price of lightning For because they are reclining Nero's fleet at Simbruina, whose Sublaqueum's name is if you give me and they were dejeila then it had happened, of unpaternal origin to Plautus it was In the same way Nero femper, a supporter of the forum of men he was, so the smoke of good works, so that it is not surprising that this Q(ii- billions, or with the acclamation of all the most important man of the Empire, with fear and in order to destroy the Empire, the nape of the neck I'm sorry Nero fiquidem perishing fop- pcam, with OciaYmm daughter ter- that wife Mejfalinamf oroxem And he will divorce the mother of the child, in vain in the context of fecundity, pereffet Orbi's oman monftruofi The emperor's heir poft fe leave I will never know him then the fuiffe; from this chapter one l(ubel- liumcumlidia mother, truly
the zeal of destroying the Empire from the living fu- he blew So these 'Subelliorum Yilla fi- then he was buried in the village of the mountain, quodyfo'mvallemrefpicit, he inlo- co, ubihodie Collegii Tyburtini noftra; It is a company vineyard, and it is called Ouaregna, where it still sleeps all over the mountain smoke huge debris detected by the mayor there, as it is clear from the map: the foundation of Hiftoric Tyburtinus rant Doubt it. Villa Ventii Baffi, C. Ugly, Munatius Placi. XJOft the mountain, on which the town of Ouin- tilii Krfitamfuiffediximus, juxta the estate of the College of Tyburtini Society noftrx, which is commonly called Midrian several appear to be partly killed the rapidity of ancient manufactures, how The Hihoric Tyburtini say that the town was fuiffe Twenty-two years later vere baifa: condition- you are a man, yet you have strength and strength of the mind, infilito fortunx ja&u, eo fe he advanced to protect Mark Antony Triumviri, from the equiphone Conful fadus, in Jfiam. miffus ria de Tartbis by the decree of the Fathers He did the work, which he practiced in practice he cried out with a loud voice: See the matter in Rome monftruofam, qtti olimftrigtlabatmulos, already ftclitm to wonder For example, great dignity and great wealth it ceased, of which, among other things, this Villatn destroyed, which ipfum Mar- cmn Antonius to relax ariimi caufa Fitaffe Appianus reports. See Cicero in Epiphtolii to Atticus. See this Yil- I don't care. Villa L. Manatti Tlanci. Lucius Munatiits Tlancus Tyburtinas, father, grandfather, and great-grandfather in the same manner had the name, Orator disciple Cr- crrowfk. Militavit fub Cafare inGaUHs, cui and in the civil war, when he adkefiffet, the greatness was depicted by that Conful cu Sruto supported the Comata of Gaul. Bello Mutinenftiummn de fe eip. &cCi- promised to Ceroni, to the end tis with Antonio&t Lepidokconjunx. it, also more the same Gefari gratified he is missing, a brother of a close friend from Lepidus, who had betrayed his brother futuofus imitator whence they soon triumphantly bus, the soldiers chased him. Of Gamanis fcilicetfratribus not dc The Gauls both triumphed over Confule. If the war was fierce, he set out to Antonius, cumdiuilli Queen: C7eo- Father's fervent obedience with them he will confirm faith, among the equipment Acliaa flees from Cephare in war, by which maybe a few years ago has been awarded, even with several honors unadorned suit, all of whom I have registered qus tefte Nicodemus Cajcte detedta, rcci- tat, in this tenor of words: L. MU- Alunuru OLD NEW LATIUM. , t MUNATIUS PRON CRYING. COS IMP SERIES VII MAN Eplon. TRIUMPH. EXACTLY MADE- MANUBIIS. FIELDS He divided it. IN ITALY WELCOME IN. GALLERY CO London He brought it down. LUGDUNUM. AND RAURACAM From which it is clear, fuiffe with fume offices? f fon&umMunatium flancutn: Confulis yidelicet, the Emperor's Army, iti- Nerum, Septemviri Epulonum; three- phaflfe dc xdem Satumi Tybure from the manubii feciffe; j3eneVenti fields add a cup of orange juice. who- for indeed Joco Vtllatn fua in Tyburtmo Igro country fua have had faith, not to do the mouse envies us the antiquity of the times. We only know this from ghffia certain mterlinear AuHoris anonymous fu- pra Heratiu, qm in 'Btbliotheca Vaticana, rtzrMztuxXo code conti- it does not spin; in Villa Munatiana fuiffe pala- of these fylvas and pifcinas. Therefore lo- with the end responsible for determining, I do not know it becomes a useless waste. Why to other things? VtllaC. Disgrace The town of C. Turpitius is called Tybure fuiffe, in that place what would you say, Turjpilkno, some de-. II ViHa Caji Caffii. manners f f cfaricid Marct ria conpicuus, caverenon potSit, without partly examining, partly leaving ViU c. The trash C. Calius in a bent voice, it is called, and that from the ruins they throw the bus code instead of the rest; The town of Tifioni. 'Pifioniortttn verily the Villa from that part, which at noon it reflects, mtzrVallemCefoniam Adrtaneum fita fuifle, from Antomo It is handed over to the ship, from which the builders were made
with the rapidity of the past, which; tending to the valley of Adriant, between the olive groves via fiunt, perfuafo: fed as hf c mere: con- je&ura no other Author's claffict they rely on teftimony, so also no in the second opinion we married a lady This conftat, Ttfiomarit family, one of the oldest I am afraid of families; for it burns Fuhio Vrfino tefte from Calpttrnia, where: ori- He drew a gin from Calpus son of Kutna Topdii, the fertile %otnaii of the King, where: then let us divide it into various, riches Magiftrativos, especially at the time of cemtmsScHoratitfioruk, so is the poem The work of the thieves was done by Typhon. G(egiu4, of whom I was the first by name He was called Cafiiana; in this a little before quoted FuhiilsllrfinMrmm, web or- given to the cowardly conspiracy against the world liumCefiaremu poftea together with com- Marco Sruto in the execution c. Caffii was not given away. L. Lajsius, who had already died a deep death rat, having finished your affairs, and the exit of the mighty in he came to the transverfum, with a sword in the feiffum He perished in the eonierfo, or, like others, I fled from the fervor He was killed by threats M. 'Brutus fuiffb teaches Appianus. And so, Caius role in given the safety of the little ones, who Mnesabeo with favors and honors eve&i efleht, he would fall to the unfaithful mValerius Maximus c. j, norurh standard-bearer and forebearer C. Cafiim, man of honor of the neck, to this flagrant and impure, CsC"' Cefitr diftuliflet, offended, confilium whose in- the fumplit of terror; in whose hearth temulaque M. Srutum, who then he traveled through the city, by his authority they soon gathered to the same They gave the most greedy names. X From these ATHANASIUS K I R C H E R I Therefore, from these days of March against the law to swear, when the facrofan&us effete, Magiftratumgeret amplimmum Magiftratumgeret, in In the senate he was killed by twenty-three wounds. Mowjuiii was given, aged "is. Cu- riam, in which csdes was carried, It pleased him to offer, and that day Martias But the bootleggers, and all those who in they were saddened by his death, fast com Miffi gave money: ipfe seasoned to those temples in the number of the Gods. he coughs. III. The villa of QXIaicilius Pius Metellus Scipio. leno mtra Cecilia Football pfam cityTyburtinampomtmeo- which is supposed to be fixed in a place, which every day Corruptc Campitello (which dicres Campus Metelli) is called; don't what other indications are there, a huge snow break the supply of gmentors, which; in the Valley, as He calls the Joyful, and part of the Garden It occupies at the desired times it was dete&a
Village Lollhmm. Villa Lol. liormi Maria Majoris Tyburtinte, this ex they collect the old register, which; fic fc has: XTllla is believed to be the fuiffe of Lollior, or po- tius fepukhrum Lolliorum, to in lo- co, where the Temple had just been built (B. HERE. place UTI WALLS 1N- CLOSED IS AD religion BURIED Lollipop. ATTICILljE SON AND Stand up. wife LOLLII AMARANTL I fane in di&a Ecclefia fumma due diligence force, fedfruftra; nor an infallible son-in-law le, cermm faithful effe I think, eoin in place of the fepulchrum fuiffe, where the registration is made it was mventa, when I registered another one here could be translated, as in the Romans It is clear from the writings, and I do not see how just as narrow a passage as Au- the thors determine within the city so many villages of Lolliorum, Marii, Metellus, etc if they could, we would have snowed for one house, and a domestic garden adjun&o I will receive C A P U T VI T)e Villes Toetarum, Catullus, Horatius, Virgil, Vopifci, Sabinc feu Ti-' Beyond the gate of Valeria, I won for Catadupte, through the high Anienk bank, verfus Cmio- bium S. Micbdelis Archan- tuiiifotw. neli in occur there were many rushes of rubbish on the mountain, which ab ipfa janrdi&a Ecclegia S". Mi- running along the mountain ridge there; and in this place Catulli Ydla was
fe is delivered, it is collected from the fields Cubs: pour nojler, feu burs I didn't go Heart Catullus Uderc; with whom God is If you want to hold the Sabinus hostage give: Sed feu Sabinc J feu Verius Ti- burs I was gladly in your Suburb, Scarcely; I agree divide territorial law of the tories on both sides OLD NOV I drove out the village and the bad leather tuft Jim From these verses it is clear, whether, Sabittufte, or Tyburtintts becomes, fuiffe controversial; because the river Anius Latium was once divided from Sabina, so that iLano. binos, whatever from the finiftra, to Lat would belong And so the town of Catulli on the right hand of Anietta's fat fuifle oftenfum it takes place, not so much in Tyburtine, as in Sabinus at the bottom of the thread is collected as ihnmt the matter must be decided; it must be done, not so cife to smoke the division of the river niSj utinoppofitaripafive villagej five towns of another jurisdiction be done; fed especially to be offered eff Exiftime territory, that division the river does not end in such a way as beyond let the rivers not stretch out any further at the foot of the Tiber, even in Hetruria a. La- but no one is easy to pray for he will say, Tranftiberina or the Vatican the country does not belong to the city, when the fertile common teftimati- one whole complexufh, so beyond, on this side of the river, one and the same Ro- ma effe, 5c both these and those Komani pa- three, not Hetrufc i cenfeantur. little town? on the part of the Ancients as a Tyburtine are contained in the Territory, not in the Sabine, (ed Tyburtina of jurisdiction effe cenferi they must as a consequence FilU Zcnobigtegi- nx, VcntiditSap7t Cos. Ouintilii Vari, Yioratii in so far as the territory They were fitx of Tyburtine, not of Sabinne, fed Tyburti? iitjuxta common joke manner, not satisfying the natural foundation rum, which is divided by the river, fitu, di- eends are; use the fufe doceturin Tige- Jlis of attuYottibtts rivers. Sedhifce when you have eaten, let us return to Vil- lam. He wished to use it in the past, today as a spring amplifllma fcaturigo wall fornice cir- cundata, as well as in the neighboring villas Derived from Horace and Quintilius Varus the fuiffe of the aqueducts, who in this and that day on the public road through meet the mountain walkers runt, demonftrant; and let there be water mnium, which; in the Tyburtine Territory they are found, most false, so as you write even with the end of the harm in po- then let him yield. But this source is rich VillamCaUtlli from. 4feewripaperdifE- the valley of a deeper valley with some five hundred paffis; where collect he ran to the rescue, he did not leave the ground guam full of anger; to which Villa Ca- is collected, from va- pieces of marble, teffella that the remains of the work, which the colonists and there they discovered Toref. Place today it is called Trttglia, than Antotiius As he thinks from the name of Catullus, the heart broken Truglia, where would you say, Tulla, raise your voice It was further from God the slope of the road, to the Anmii and the banks of which both for the relaxation of the mind, and also for A poetic murmur of enthusiasm the river should be supported, petiiffe they deliver And Catulhtf was the country of the Catu""s Verily, to those poets whom I have praised they call him, as he is numbered, Ovidius the vilip complaining of the injuries inflicted on him, that from the number of so many lafciVorutn Poets ipfe folus of exile to fuftinere he will eat Villa Horace. Villa Tyburtina Horace Flacci, from with their own relatives, not elsewhere tifle oftentus, than in the adverb of Anie- wparte, in which place Canobium is today A? ito? m FratrumMinor St. Francis let's make a cifct fitum, where the porticoes they compare the rapids of the destroyed muka; and was given from it to the bank and every thing, as it is ipfe of fefateturl. Odei. where verfibusfin- He was busy with the race. Egv ApisMzrzW Moreover, Carpentry trellis through the labo- thing 'Plurimwn about everywhere- that You work on the banks of sharks. I imagine Carmtna. X How much tomeftic Vlasccna- ise A T H A N A S I I And how much joy and enthusiasm He spent his whole life in this Vtlla, ipfe teftatur odey: Sc l. i, odecf.
Tybur Argeus pofltum Colonus Stt my faith in the window Let it be the way of the laffo of the sea iSr Ytarum Mtlitically They were at that time domesticated M. tce- born the famous PoeKE, Tucca, Varus, and Horatio, one of the individual firebrands, these, together with Virgil, did not stone any they moved him to make Horace a friend Macenat's friendship they would make For even if Satyra admits: Virgilius, pofl bunc Varius to say what the hell Vt Veni corant flngultim a few lo- skin For the child was ashamed of the rain ra to be made EtLpoftea fubjungits: A few words from him, isr recalling the ninth pofl menfe, jubcfque EJfe in the number of friends; big this I lead. Horatius the great fane of profit was that Me- Auguffi'" dinner friendship Horatio, cpx from infe- be jice the trust, and all the good things he made it flow, i. he died vn. You have made me rich. For ipfi Ytllam with poetic genius very convenient, having planted in this fi- Nem Mufarum luco, exftruxit, 8c bus things to life with honor He provided for the management of each one very liberally; Ctfari Auguflo when the enemy effete, so K I R C H E R I He reconciled, as among the intimates of Augustus together with Vtrgilius, Tucca, Vario have there For as ipfe says Sat. (poflera light oritttr very grateful, for Plotius isr Varius Sinuejfe Virgi- and the lily They meet in vain, such as cannot dtdtors I have taken the land, and I have not defeated them the other who embraces, what joys there are they were For in order to be defeated, Atbenisftu- giving service to the gods there about the herd of Epicurus pigs; in the juvenile at the time of the civil wars, he introduced mufas into the army, fe- he was quebaturque coritra Oclavianus fa&io- nem Sruti Caflti; 8c" nevertheless Mctcenate mediator, so dear gratuf- who was in Augustus, as the prophet Tybur conversion of Virgil and Horace even, he would refpuert every other, inter namely, both of them are fed by literary gau- dcbat confortjo: So indeed Horatius a short stature indeed, and a sharper movement lecorporis, from too much wine and Lif had almost closed his eyes dripping with humor: but Virnlius con-
through a lean body, from the high in the chest hemiflis, in the nave in which: triftia the object was carried. Hence Auguftus by He was joking, and I was among them tranflgere tears isrfufpiriafe. hour his destiny was spent a year. But more about the Villa Horatius below. Reconciliation Liath Ho- with Csf. Aug. mtdiante Maccn. ttc Horace Achenes throw becomes Epi cure Yormd Horace, ty of Virgil Augnlil. joCHC. Village Manlius Vopifci C A P U T VII Vilk Manlii Vopifci. Hfl iHarum Tyburtinarum thus far the controversy I manfit, and VillaManliiVo- The most famous poet, who as Domitian the Emperor how dear, and I was among the most intimate was enumerated, so too enriched by him with riches, fum- the fifteenth town, near Urfow He destroyed Tyburtina; are true which: immediately the Poet ipfi riyxt" he tells, surely she was such and such so as to be scarcely richer in spirit, more magnificent, and more worthy of admiration desires to conceive; so that my town What a wonderful place today works OLD NEW packed with a multitude of works, about Banks are not to be found in Anknis, so fplen- dory a hundred Whence some they confound Ydla's reason; others elsewhere, pkri- cjue from the defcription of Ytfperfuafi, fupra They think that Catadupa is exftitiffe. I certainly do Ifullus another, in discovering his Joke do not say that I will be idle in fact, it will be clear where he is I will expound the magnificence of a few. Therefore, I would like to know more about the method magnificent, artifice Nature: wonderful crammed with the legs, and not both Anienis bank pcr extcnfum bridge fuiffe matters. Verfusfubjungo Cernere of making Tibtor glacid Vo- piffe If any isr infcrto twins Aniene 'Penates, Or he could have joked about the trade rip I will certainly defend my master Villas And if the temperature of the place is described, he said: a long day to remember; what's up
I'm bringing you back Joy? how many miracles Yifus I What kind of sigh? quecefonna happy Artifice the hand to conceive the places? not lar right anyway Nature indulges tall trees cited lucubuere) go Fallacious refponfat imaao With leaves and long leaves the same fwit wnbra through the waves. IpfeAnkh. (amazing faith) below that was gone Saxian Here is the swelling of the rabies and sets the torch "Afraid to disturb, he murmured Vopifci Tkriofiquedks, t? loving songs fomnos The shore is both at home M 1'ATIUM. i&f DiYidit; altcrnas ferVant pratorid. banks It seems that the poet here vcl W2? oAm&Yj or astonished by the stupefaction of miracles, etc defcripfiffe; for what is the reason when the rocks, the terrible dangers? what the horrible Catadupx trembled, when the flu- What threats will he write down, quietly? what y'Jfl? 'h smoky horror abyfli with charm should they make local comparisons? don't worry what The villa was in three rows of rooms colored by the beams, and woven with variegated marble, springs from the walls breaking out on every side, I wonder so infused with artifice that it does not effect ca- mere, cjua: nonfuumfontemhaberet, the water of Mars through leaden channels or below Iphum the river Auienus traduos in huge expenses derived from Inmedioatriarborplan it was tatarned, with which: I did not dig branches just inside the gate, fed he was infiltrating through the ipfas to the left; fylvai surrounded by a pleasant sight they presented a spectacle to his eyes; and that which leads to human faith, to then this complex was destroyed by Catadupa In Auicnis, the intru&um was seen. But Let us hear Statius: What's the first time, can I get gray? to what end shall I do it? Auratafine beam? or the Moors what do you want An polished shining marble Wonder? lia lympbas? You kill me here, but I will carry you with my mind; hold on I will say The end of the lights? you and ladaflu come down with threats Ashes? or to fiyhas, qie rcfipkii Hall silent? With which you will have complete rest, and two or none Noxfilet; iy black imitation the walls of Fiomnos? Or what kind of grass was cut by the curb they smoke (Bathroom, tS8 A T H A N A S I Salnea; and the banks of the river Algmti bns i"nem? And with these Steamer furnaces bus river He was panting by the river Yicino JSLympbas. What do I remember about the floors of the halls? and the prices of the rooms were crammed metals and stones? price tag fo fufis of metal, and work of jewels he was unadorned, as he had worn it. YesSta=- tius infpe&or ipfe of the whole Magnificentix Vopifcanx I saw the arts, and again the hands, varied and metals ViMa innodis; to remember the labor of gold figures Or ivory. or dynasties of dkitis j o o wear jewels Qmdquid y silver first, 1el in sister of Myron Lufit, Izr has developed enormous hands colojfos While l'agor afpe&u, Ytfufque per I lead the people I was treading and not thinking of riches; namfplen- pain from deep Flowing down, the shining air of Ur teftx To show off the foal; Various types everywhere through the arts Gaudct ground; and they were in charge of noYis A lot of figures Scared of gradns. What now such a wonder? Or what do you share with your longing aunts? trichoris Do you hear me? by which means the tree TeSla per, isr poftes liquid emer- gfs in the air And a little hungry. What should I say about the double height? pile up Albentefque lake i high and high go to the fountains? And thee through the oblique end, that la- bear the river March, and the bold transit a lead? I K I R C H E R I Habcs here descriptam Vopifcamt Villtt magnificence; where: there are fi vcra, Sc not a fub of hyperbole recited by the Poet; she surely the greatest of all Caepha then it seems fuferafle; five fumptus in spend them, five miracles of Art Na- turx ineaelucefcentiafpe&es; and whence of money, for such a work as should be destroyed, opulence? no doubt Do- Mitiani, dearest and especially dear to you it was held, obftetricante, to such a degree: to carry out the work in great abundance, munificence Vcrum one in iijus VilLe fito fanc the invincible difficulty of the mind arises with the power of conception to conceive so great a problem in so many local gurgs of things I would gather Tcntandum so and so
for me there is nothing in such a perplexity as a fub of such old age bris, be not all, but the smallest sliver of light a ray in the truth to grow upon us let it shine However, I would like you to know Leclor, Anienis al veum, igmiia to use cVcircumjaccnnum local route a long time ago nem habuifle, -quamhodiernoternpo- matter because the noonday light is brighter for them which was examined with great care by me it will be clear that they were And of the fatness of Tybur, in ancient times it is a fat a&um, of the fat at the same time of the Cephas We will do this at this point. old age, not a universal animal glo-Z"l how many places fucceflu theme pores thus changes, alters, alters, dif- fol vit, so that nothing was out of place for the natural lon- go tcmpore, because of corruptible things it may last for a short time; about co quif whoever wills, may read the world under the earth neuum, where everything as fufiffime dc by the change of the earth's crust laughs and when we see the river al- I will be alive within a few years significantly change the ftation, such as and how much, Vrbe Tyburtina ex ra- the edifice of the eddying and eddying river noix V E T U S Sc N O V U M L A T I U M. fton incurrifle putasfpatioKjooanno- rum Today certainly all that tra&us, who he surrounds Catadupa, so tortuous ift, so many fcopuli, voraginibus. mean- wrapped up in a drift, as if there was hardly any room to build a house; re-cap you will perish Whence before one thousand and hundreds different years from today's tra- If the form of that one is cut off, it will be cut off. nor that Catadupam, in any way it seems, in the same place, conftitifle, fed the whole illumtrad, and to the truth At that time Catadupam, who this ufqne day about fathoms from today's fertile river flows, pla- for cowardly, it is gathered from thence that in The flow still manifests itself on the steep cliffs water; rapids in the walls of tartar i7o A T H A N A S I tis fpectentur, a clear indication, that the river once flowed; that Tybur- tine antiquities Studiofi one they are with me, and they are woven together. In this for in a place so whirling so fast brem Vopifci Villam once conftitiffe po- trusted by us to the surface of the plain of the river so fcopulofi can scarcely be conceived; many to the minions I wished to imagine, only Villa on both sides of the river pam had taken possession of the bridge, when from the temple of the SibylU to the oppoiitimontisra- I'll tell you, I'll stop at the zoo. ccdat that &quot; They entrusted this place back to you. they are forced to confess; Hence many of this place Intucting an incongruous shape, not in eo Vtllam Vopifci, fed or ipfam Ho- of the village, which is also about Three years after the death of Horace, I live Station was still fuperftes, Vdlam They have effeted Vopifcana. For in The villa of Horace, in both Anienlsri- pam was going over the bridge, (which before about years left fe, Ponte del Lupo I fell down with the force of the river, whose fall even today in the ipfo river cer- are known, through which no lekus and in Vo- pifcana access to both banks batur. It is very difficult for me ret this opinion of Fuhii Cardulis, fi de- Statiana's inscription: Horatius Villa unde- with which Nicodemus mm, isr %egius, Hiftorki Tyburtini, A member of the Temple of Sibyl Albunece VilU and the adjoining city: let them say that they are cowards; how fitusuti ho- I K I R C H E R I dicrna: not congruent to cortftitutioni, iti neccefiario is forced to find this town to the north; along the river bank ra places, far and wide nor at that time Catadupa, nor let the vortices fizzle there, fed a little in- on the holidays, it was like a god True since this matter is in no way con- cipi pofllt, here both locitumho- daily, then ancient these fchematifmis conveniently expo- I didn't even cry. Aqua Martia from Ticoniofonte, via Lacum Fucinum, both of them, dmvatn conftat ex Frontinus, ex Tyburtus ff2 field pancminV MamVopifca? iam'mci- "Vii- a derivative He was not fooled by it This is what Antonius [Aegius] refers to me
at the time of mVtllaSugUard civisTybur- tin lead channels the earthen ones were found in the fuiffe, below the channel of the river no other than in the town of Vo- I was once given a pifcana. Certainly they are not missing from both banks the rapidity of arches and porticoes, which very much from their rubbish, who it will be clear that they are still in trouble. Today he was all drawn out of the river and thus eaten it seems that, besides, the horrible abyfh the abyss and the depths of praxis so that nothing else appears; but in time Vopifci, and the higher channel of the river, the plainer and larger banks, fi Sta- Tiana We are ready to register, but we need to do it it is But this is about Villa Vopifcana fuE- they can Why to other things? Chapter VIII I will leave you with the Tyburtians. i Artialk etfi I{pmt where: the Tyburtine ball was said here, in the Valley of Monts Quirina Yk, than today's winged (He reflects on the barbers, it will be fed, so that it can be woven; But Tyburtinayiwz came next Pils Oua Yulet ancient ruftica Flora Jupiter Tybure, however, also had the Villa Tj- by what fraud was obtained from Mathon, Mjrnaiis. or ipfe admits: You were a friend of ours, Matho, Tyburtini You buy this. impoverished, I sell your country to you. Where V E T S N O V U M L A T I ll M. Where, however, has been of such a nature, ne- mini Antiquariorum jiucufque inno protects Whence it is verifiable that the town was fuiffe I fled to the cixiga, the fimplice, and the private one accommodated Villa Crifpi Salluftii. 7i"sSu" Leaving the exit port of the Holy Cross, tfii. U' By the slope of the mountain, to about they meet the thick, flamboyant walls; when with the greatest multitude, it is said on the day of Xfarano; others called it a cave They call it Saracina. They don't die anymore then this peace of Olivet Vtam Omana corrupted by Salluftio they say to Loftoin; and in this place Crifpi Salluftti ftatuunt fuiffe. It is true that when the absence of this C. lulii Cxfaris, C. CaliguU Yillis paflim be confused; I would easily say, hafce Villas, as fucceffu private seasons they were sold; this pa&o new jurifdi&ion titles acquiiiviffe. Villa L. Centronii Pifani. Vilkum L. Centronii Pifani, from Ju- 1enally we gather the five ampliflma, and built at great expense, in instead, who to this day still, from poffef- foreejus Centrone dkkur, fitumha- was beyond the Lucan Bridge, at the end As they were going, I would go, where just before The Family of the Cross is as long as it is of the Cross commonly called; Varco also said there, and there was QnotpSov, ideft, ft- 1erforum animal cuftodia, later, later constructed rumrecreation; whose fMl todera with a stone, which they call, so The rwodmnt is covered with a lunt, so that there is hardly anything outside let it appear; but rather to his diggers manifest symptoms occur. But Eph teftmo type of bundle, which from inundation noi ih ejuf dem feptll-? bro deti- not even water? fulphuratx Albula-, with tem- coalescing into hard rock the plains in many places like a fringe covered with a kind of skin. He lived in Centronimus in the time of Domitiaii, Manlti Vopifci, Statii, luYnalis co. Ttaneus, poftcujus the death of the Villa came into pofeflion Sejitiwo SeVero cufis, in fepulchro Dicri Ckudii Liberalis, tefte Antonio gio, dete&is is clear, at the time Gafpans Fuccii Do&oris, uvisTyburtini, in on the eve of which Claudius said the fepultura in together with the numismatist ejuf epitaphs were found. Fuiffc however, I used it, cam splendid, from Juvenal, Saty- we collect ra JEdiftcator was Centronius, mo- db cap On the shore of Czjetx, smoke with Tyburis castle When the Prarneftines were in the mountains of Alu was preparing The summits of the villages, Greece and far away asking for Fortunx with marbles, and I will eat Hercules. There are many other inT erritorioTybur- tino the vegitia of the Vtllas paflim obvia, which: let's not lose sight of anything, I will bring you Vtlla Patroni Liberti villaPi. of a mile, in Joco fita fuiffe, tefte Fid- It is called Yw Cardoli, where they are just going to St. Gregory to Isva, Vtlla Cru- ciorum, fub destroyed'1. Ecclefia of Micbael It is seen to be constructed. As they go I am beyond Albuk Sulpburea tribe
thousands of paffus meet various ru- then the vcftigia, as of old CaJImius Vtllam fuiffe, Antonim %egim exifimat, from the registration ibideminventaimpul-- I was Cossini D. L. CJESIJE POSSIDONIUM L. Consinio D. L. I learn SIXTH P. L. EUGENE IN. FR. P. XI. IN. AG. P. XV Although: i7i A T H A N A S I Although others call this village on the mountain near Tybur, whom TefcbidPatoro, in a place, qaemCo. ano, they call, quafi you would say, Cojiinian, with a distorted voice, fi- they thought it would be so. The Rurfii, going through the portico of S. Cru- cis, through the diftrii5tum, who go is said, meet the vineyard of the College of Ty- I K I R C H E R I burtini noftrje Society, in which he thinks %egius Vtllam fitam fuifle Coponiorum, at that time Ciceronisomx flourished, mine, which is called of which di- Cappone's wax; the same from the register he thinks that fe proves the poffe, which in Via Va- leria was in the wind, this trend: A storekeeper. L. F. GEMINUS. CAUPONIA L. F. Twins. Vilia Co. ponioma And the differences between the taverns and the stone beyond I don't see how someone else is found just as you conspire how appropriate to the truth to be demonstrated he puffs Here he brings forth the same TSlicodemus, in in the place where Ecclefia S. Virginis just vulgo del Carciano, at the roots of VilU there, where they were advancing through the olive groves Hierocomium verfus, they meet com- several ruins, and intact walls with ex- dris and conch of pifcinarum, which Vil- ViilaCoc lam the Cocceians throw the juiffe, which; cejoium as Yilla, Adriana is diflita, so what- which they think, Hadrian with Trajan I will often visit this place, and ibid first {VtlU (ux so famous magnifica: exftruends confiliacaptafle yerum to use hxc to be proved from the Authors they do not know, so also the same faith it is not to be had. Just as those The village of the Serenes in that part of the city, which It's called Cocirino, where would you say Collis Se- of the reins, they do not make a fat man they hallucinate a little. true to tan dem hunc de VilUs Tyburti? iis tracla- then I will conclude, I say, AgrosTybur- ttnos so everywhere the ancient inhabitants to abound in the rushes of the nations, so that scarcely ad thou shalt proceed with a thousand peaces, whereof it will not happen to you soon, and therefore Do not divert the territory cheaplySjfed or one whole, and the most magnificent city expreiliffe, fumma fane Tyburthitt Ur- you may be twice afraid of glory. They are seen still various ruins of villages between olive groves tending to the Villa Jani, which; whether to difta I do not know whether to go to other places; rough type rum fubjungo C A P U T IX. Ptrpttum Tibuli itrrmtor The town of Hippoly, where Cardinal d'Efte was executed on the day of Tybur fuperjles, the fumma of the dynasties is alive with wonder. Hippolytus Cardinal d'Efte deliciofo Urbis fitu delete&a- tus, Vtllam inside the city destroyed the store, whose fi- faults, flaws, old fashioned multitude variety, fo- tiu incredible population, art nature? the miracles that are found in it you would trust more carefully, surely of the Tffomans in their villages induftria with many fenders fuperaffe it seems The palace of the mountain of Fupercilio rising three stories high he wanders into the halls and the most spacious rooms thus distributed, as a stranger; so much Ar- chitedonicx art induftriam fates mi- they are not rare. Fountain Hall bus, and other fun activities He imbued the customer with an ineffable pleasure I have been from the nobles everywhere and everywhere r r, or- palatmm so much Symbohcorum icne- the matus is decorated with variety, like Apelles seems to be in conflict with Tallade. What? I will say numtrn o born OLD NEW LATIUM. the day of the feasts, of which indeed the godParnaffumexhibits the greater part from the city of Adrianople to be taken out of the ruins, ancient: nobility tis pra: ftantia? of which fta, some are in the measure of the Gods Vrofpt. Stm. garden de- registration Portion nothing in The garden it was torn Walk leg innu enter the font tibutfa- it will be easy conjpicuii Locttt tjui Rome
heat Of the goddesses, and of the heroes, and others which in Coloffea: they steal What could be more noble? That crypt of the nymphs re fuperbiffimc elaborated, nor fon- those who even expri? The living room of the palace, in front of the fountains lientcs, they spread life into all Latium Salince the borders, the smoke of those who gazed you will be exhausted with joy. Let us proceed to the Garden, in which first from the palatial plane, pcr various lights rum roads, to five levels dcfcen- it is given in which the first im- menfe of the size of the waters appropriate for the selection of games; In the financial give to Hercules a trick, with which he is more skillful Iicet hardly fpedare, pal- high morals: from this he becomes defcenfus to the principal town of the village, which the beginning smokes from the unadorable Catadupa, which: the portion of the ancients through the hidden mountains tis mijeandros, huge tremors, water and the rumble through the shaggy rocks, in the shell zi the most developed, hence in the vafta pifcina which the plane trees, which on all sides and on all sides the given date is precipitated. They will be exhorted walk a little before the lake to a long fathom, with failing springs in the order of difpofits rum abacis all OYidti Metamorpbojis with the greatest skill of art Giata is seen. At the end of this walk it happens, because (omce antiqua: celebrated res device: , near the rest of the place let them be seen; where from la: va full bursting rivusexflumi- not to be driven, by skill, through the fine rocks defines fa&as in Caladupa. Playful the waters of the sea, where: in this place they are given, they can hardly be explained. Hence he becomes lost in another plane, whose walls elaborated with teffella work, in me- bus, in which the squire is hooded, Lu- fcinia is modulated, dfenfat anfer, cana- rias volucres multiple words you would swear that you were singing Ve- mttes Vivaritt conjpicita-t Voltcrtlm. artist the place of the trickery of the waters Judicns. it is not lacking; for the purpose of moving the birds from all the walls and the rain bursting on the pavements, so per- it is raining, so that they can be seen outside the river. At this point another passage is opened lined with trees on both sides, in whose the fairest middle: the pifcina: the theatre is opened, in the middle of which the work of the city into four Dragons, into four The world's continuous waters developed by way of in whose village there is an immense canal, which the fun of the waters, which Girandola vo- lokwapa. i-l r rum tjitem cant, exhibct, aquafqueintantamalti- Girandola the shape of the press will be approximated but by the degrees of Conchis hydragogis It is planted in the plain of Horti Hortipu. tiem, where four nurseries meet with pike, swans, ducks and so on aquatic: packed with flying birds, where: the peridromic orders were canceled surrounding, wonderful fpe&antes volu- ptate They are filled with fuepifcina: , five vivaria, a great supply of water, through Catadupa fell; Fuprahanc pam the noble cat opens the theater juxta all archite&onyx-artis regu- It is now very clean, and it does not go to live in the receptacle of waters; in whose inner recccflii organ hy- hydraulic automaton difpofit, mi- ra variety of sounds to the ears of listeners will soften Nor would this speaker be unfaithful, for you are hidden in the channels of water it is filled with the harmonics of an organ avoid being swept away by the creeping waters so that the roads are not blocked. Time medeficeret, fi omniahujushprtime- stay, art nature: the miracles of fu- I would try to write it down. Who more to trust, from things %egii, in which even the smallest Y seas Tbeamtm Arcbite Bonictc artit fptci! with organ by drauiic ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI in the inventory of all things he exhibited the clay; And let Ledtor be curious hujus Vtlla fplendorem amcenita- let him perceive it only in his words ichnography, which; use as he yields to no one, so also he perfe&urrt his e&ypon as the last of this de VtWtsTyburtmk tra&atui colophon imposes
HaUzZpfimafo fari e Jecctro'can hcn conwaraio M camare e saie e rtccamente aJchhate. z. &iarJma secreto. c. -fante Jcl aacorno. aamcon. aZontane chc vtrfano aattna ntforma Jtfccehio tn. T-iliaccc. tS &rottaJVenerc Grmtna ci c Sthtta IrnJranc c. Jjnenef cola Jtinfi thc verfn aatta, i3e. &Ttnottt. &ratnJeU Sthita. Zar IJnma catttaru nemiaJn L I B E R OLD SC NEW LATlUM.
DeVeterumUrbium, Fanorumq; celebrity of ruins and fortunes, nor of marveling at Nature works, even in the Tyburtine Territory they are still waiting. P A R S I Dc Urbiutn still in the rushes of the old days fuperftitus C A P U T I "On the river Aniene, which today is Teveronc they joke What a foolish thing you want to say about Aniene's fat We differ here, however a little more about it to burn the smoke; for it is the river of them all they irrigate Latium, the most famous, Po- Lybius, Cicero, Virgil, OYidius, LiYio, Dionysus Halicarnassus, Strabo, Pro- Pertius, Plummius, Silus, Statius, Plutarchus, Sc We have notified the scribe Plinius: Anius, he says, on the mountain of the Trebanos, lacmtres, noble by virtue, whose name Decdere Sublaqueus, carries him to Tyberim. To whom Frontinus answered: He was fated prince noflro xterar waters rcfli- tuiffe abundance, fed also grace. Anienis also noYi Vitia exfcindi pojfe Yidit. For Omijfo was brought back by the river from the lake, which "Frupa Villa" Neroniana Sublacen- fem, where the clearest efl, jtifiit. TSLam when Anius rises from Treba Augus fire, because it ran through the shaggy mountains rit, a few people around the town bus cultis, fire because the lake is at the height, in which txcipitur, 1eluti purified, imminent also overshadowed by the opacity of the seas, frtgidifltmm fimul and Jplcndidijsimm eo He arrived. OjpidumSublaqueum, therefore Orttti Anitnit plurain Hiftoria noftra Ettftacbio-Ma- riana, and today the ancient name is reti- eftinipfaripawMM, about mil- queua" by the banks of the river Tyburum to, below which the river flows through the cataract is precipitated; but a thousand pieces of wood the town was built on the same bank that Monaflerium is made up of that ma- Monalfc. significum T)ive Scbokftica, the cradle of the nedias of the religion of St. Benedict, in this place in ft; 4clola" fubje&a valley In fact, those three Iacus were noblemen, who to give a name to the fubjeclo town, Sub- trap I just wanted to make an earthquake. five abducted within the subterranean victuals aqms, or in some other way unknown to us, the elf to fail; one still in time. l); i 'Benedtcli fuperfuifle teftatur biftoria de of St. Maurus the disciple, who to fummerfo from within HaimPlaado Obedience: merit, the waters of the lake jufiu St. trem fuum is reported extraxiife from the waters from St. Grenier Moreover, from Sublaque, the verfus rose hy people were born river to the right bank of the same Anienu tram, meets the most ancient drag four A T H A N A S I litffl t Trela, commonly now TreVe; not far off Anicnis, three thousand miles from here, on the mountain who sees Trebdm from the rising of the Sun, fontcsi'-compiciuntur Here is your fate I am not surprised, says Strabo He overcomes the fact that the sources of this of the river to fifteen thousand paffuum indc diilitam, the city pcrve- put a tuft Anuv, he said, mtgiy. os AhSac pei aoi (icvpQ7(Aa. mns JTflAswy; nifi forfan that Trebce is contiguous, etc. , to be understood wants Anius is thus brought from the dead Tre- hanorum monte, utre&e Frontinus, per the fringed places, but soon around Treba through more despicable places, on both sides on long, wooded hills by the windings of springs and streams, He begins in the fields of Tyhurtini; hence to others the terrifying abysses of the rock and elsewhere, having received the rivers, by a wide circuit he had fallen into the Tiber. Today from you of this river and to the Tiber to whom faith may end, with twelve bridges, partly of wood, partly of bundles is made, of which the former
rio Trebano, two others in Sublaquen f, S". Anthony, tc S". Francifci; where tus wooden, within the orb Mara- for those who are under the jurisdiction of the village Sublacenfts Abbottne: the fifth equally li- gneus within %sulianus, Anticolim; IRCHER Anienis Ilpmti- Anius litt injlrawf. Sextus outside the village of Varron, vuigcs Vicaro; The seventh bridge from Qatar ractam Tyburus; O&avus ihfra Villanl MUCENATES, and today it is called Ponticelh-, and who had olimphaxed, &cPonsGelins it was said, because the people around him the leg of Ca-lii was once stored in a crate, is but the violence of the river was broken, ex as they were going, it is seen that the wood is broken Sabina we comforted the fane, per- suitable The ninth most famous the river, which they call Pontcm Lv. caman, of which the fupra in the Villa Plautiorum pluri- the bus is a needle, and the royal road it is ready for those who are going. Tenth, Ponts Ma- mother, I live in Mammoli, first from Anto- Nino Pius, the emperor, then built it from Mamaa Matre Alexander Cafaris, a by which he obtained his name, having been restored it was Eleventh, about one thousand after St. Agnes Temple, 1ia TsLomcn- tana: Twelfth, not far from the con- by the flow of the Amen, Tybur, in the Via Sak- ria, in which Manlius with the giant CaU having gathered the reins, he obtained the victory is carried Here from the Goths Finally, the Luftinians of the Emperor Ar- he was retitied with a shuffling; what the manner of the elegant epigram, which in each day on the side of the bridge cifum fpe&atur, in this tenor verb- Rum is woven: Epigrim tefahrio QJJAM EENE CVRBATI IS THE DIRECT PATH OF THE BRIDGE ATQJE INTERRVPTVM CONTINVATVR 1TER. CLAMUS RAPID SUBJECT TO THE GURLING WAVES, AND NARSEN SINGS RESONANT APPLAUSE EVERYWHERE. GO IGITVR FACILES THROUGH GAVDIA VESTRA QVIRITES, AND NARSEN RESONANTLY SINGS GAVDIA VBIQVE. THAT COULD SAVE GOTHORV'S STIFF MINDS, HERE TEACHES DRIVVM FLVMINA FERRE IVGVM. C A P U T II I impulo thee, Vrhe vetuftijsima. j5' In the old La- the morning of the cities xlirSl lakre invetigarem, It happened that they were gathered together {y Ivarus receffus, pendentium fco- I was so entangled with you that I was afraid any exit would be granted, of which the fummo snow finally melts, in per- Ecclefia was an old man of the wildness of folly By the divine word, I would fall; than when a Conftan V E T U S N O V U M once built by Conftantinus the Great, and then zSantlo Sjbeftro Pont i. of God pant DiVo Euphtachio in the same place in which from the apparition of the Crucifix between like a deer, from paganism to Chriftum converfus fucrat, I would see dedicated, ex profanus then lest, infacram, the notice of this place so famous, happy fane caught up in error, which I infer Eustachio-Manana, I'm confused in which whatever Ledor cir- ca to distrust the antiquity of this place if he can, he will find it registered; why in iishocloco defcribendislon- I really didn't want to. At the end of this this place of devotion is filled with tannins I push accec; ercm much adhocopusfpe- rt I will pass through the ancient cities As I said, I would have offered to the swifts; in the ship in which I was taken into an excellent man, Doctor Tarquinius Tamatta in Caftdlo of St. Angeli, which Madame della they call, I came upon a resident, who with me Trctha. ioXoyictq fiderio incen- he could see the smoke, he said, written about the origin, and the excision of Emjuli to have it, I was the most experienced of my parents Medicoexalium pervetuftoManufcrip- to extra&um, from which several ad doing something about the old times Cccofio lijcrift- of the city L A T I U M. d um was from Gentcis at the time where the brothers Archhn, Catillus, Corax Tyburttu Tyburt founded? pay attention bant, built by the Aborigines, tem pore prikorum Latinorum fumme flo- rushed For Tyburtius was mighty in strength they were no longer afraid of the Omani restaurant flourishing and happy in fact For as Livius teftatur Empulum co anno ex Tyburti Cap- Empu! t, ra City, Cond: Following Coff. Livy narrates this here and there. Two, in- quit, wars eearino profjieregefta' cmnaut Tubertus to the surrender of the fist,
Safliila from these cajita, catteraaue cppida, nt witVerfa genspofttis armis unfaithful Confulis Venijf. t He triumphed over Ty. But already nearer to its shore let's go Euntibus I'm going. three thousand paffus to the noble la? va p Caftello S. Angeli, that Caftello Mada- they call me, he met the mountain's impofit: to the right the highest mountains cis, and these between the mountains, in the valley not a small mound fe fpe- to give the old rude rum vetigia, ad oo which way? Sicilianitm, bium, which extends to the Territorio Tjburtino; of which the most noble here they are fpedantur, hiftoriam, potifll mum where? to the ancient city, which? It was once said that they belonged to collect the poffem; and that for a long time I had trusted unicenofle, in what find the copiofifiime record; nor here was the business of the whole city and the ruins of the fuperfted walls, ex the walls of the said S. Angeli Caftelli he says; to use scarcely any Author from no mention of the modern goddess ram, so also the whole hiftoria heretofore opportunely die, as of old age hitherto unknown, here to be inferred I married Empuhm, qucepofteris times Ampigitone was commonly called, the town Once upon a time I lived in the city, therefore, which one? to use it in the waft so also on the mountains on every side valley ifimd on every side as if crowned, nor npn fca- turients exmontibusfontiummul- mpt it renders him lovely and delightful, Sc indeed the mountains are covered with trees great hunters of animals both to birds and to birds, for: they gave me A field for all to the vine human? ufum, neceffariarum rcrum Abundance is indestructible: Territory once upon a time I went to the old country on the one hand, from Akera to Gregory, who was once called Saffula, be deceived he was laughing; But the archives before him devafta I pushed ATHANASIUS KIKCHERI devaftatione Empnlum fic defcri- bunt: Among the pnedivites 8c amaenasur- which Tyburtinus Ager held together not the least: Empulmus was strong, five Ampiglianus, which Majfam Appolo- niam di&am, three thousand paffuum rjwrdiflitum; prxterpala- Empiiii for his magnificent strength in He was destroyed by the most munificent nature; outside that vkidarium cemebatiir omnirfru- two kinds, and not Cypreflis, Pini- bus, beech, oak, and sycamore to implanted wall to win the most abundant; and to use the sources the bus abounds, and so also the onlookers eyes and mind with wonderful pleasure was creating It was a green forest Theriotrophum, of all living things both a fowl and a quadruped kind of intru&um city valid my wall V E T U S N O V I was surrounded by a wall, but not near the house with convenience only, fed magni- built in Ficentia: in the pradongas placque platcas were discriminated. Ex- tta urt, ern a J 4D fcre- pairus Ecclelia nobniorttm 'X J I pushed. o Martinus the city was confccrated to be protected was seen, Ecclesiastes opimisad admitted the niftrators to be fed, and the little Jiaud income The principals of this A local noble family; grant Santtni Mo- U M L A T I U M. Riconi, Veccbi, Maarelli Majllu The whole territory of this city is water; with the bows of the former two it is crowded, through March, five Claudia, she in Vdlas Tyburtinas. But he was of these instead of more Here, then, I will show you how do, and on what occasion Enqnditanaurbf devaftata fucrit, let us explain. C A P U T III T)e TeBmBiom Empulitana: Vrbis, five Ampilionis box No, therefore, we do not offer Salvation; in the reign of Alexander IV Pont. Max. Oclatdits Vrjinus, powerful 8c nobility fan the crown of the crown, Vrbis Emfndt- tatkt, commonly, AmfigUone, ncc not S. Gre- Gorii, VicoVari, Cantalupt Dominus, and legitimate right of hereditatispofleifor, He had two daughters already married mature: and at the same time the towns Sambuci, and the Saracens, commonly known as the Saracens fcbi, ruled by Andreas Manerius
fpedatx equally a man of nobility, who two He had grown-up grandchildren, Tetrum Marius, to whom of the suitable mother he had been providing a warning for a long time. Since therefore he will not listen to Oclavio's two daughters Vrfmo Empdhunc Kfidcmi, already nu- biles, about dating one of his nephews jWatrimo-bus was going to marry Emfulus with the exception of mdubia he failed to conclude the marriage by which mutual trust benevolent with whom Andreas Sambucum re- verfus, when poftduoscircitermenfes, no adfiucfacfcepollicitation re- "fponfumdaretur, letter business ur- he cried out to be done; fed by Oklahoma I will repulse the liabus, which has already been given to others puffed up with incredible indignation considered in a fummumodium, which he had conceived through OtlaYtum, he was born. Meanwhile Alexander Maximtts Topar- cha8c Lord S". 7f; ,coeteroruni- Lmroci niitm. Oripine that adjacent to the Caftellis, with 1{omam tranf- irct, robbed of the robbers of his place, omnibufquc fpoliatus, which por- he was in trouble, both in money and in things, with so much heart he flared up with provocation, so as not to rest he would promise that this thief would not Shall I tear down the fpelunca with force? And so he vindicated with lust angry, with hatred from Andrea Sambuci Lord in Ottayium Vrfinum pto inteHexiffet, the most opportune occasion the fiona hbrdata in execution with the intention of nem fuam de Vrbe Empulitana e vertcn- Apfamm let him discover, both of them sold fury with his hands, as if he were a scepter, with his feet. years ago they went to dig. Whence and abf any tein- after prolongation soon colle&is, and gathered in both towns rumjuriidictionifubjeclis, copiofami- litummanu, armiluftrium in no city St. Vitus was the first to be buried. What nc- CmtfiUim he was cheap to all, so also tame", fminS' he could not be deceived by the narrowness of the Philistine legc without hitting; mechanical engineering then it would be known by the woman Am- politana, who soon les vergeret, enclexit, in per- he brought the ropes to him, and Ofht- It is about everything that needs to be conquered and he had heard that the city was to be overthrown, he warned At this point the whole city rose to arms. L smoking lSo ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI I'm going The walls and towers are excited by smoking they are replenished with military forces, to each one a place suitable for the city is fixed Intcrea advarfu part Exer- He moves his zeal against Empulus: when already against her, as fpe already devoured let them be true, from the impro vifo and things, which were carried on inside, ignorant ri, fueled by enormous fury, they would do lances, swords, a gathering of bundles, and other weapons in They fought so bravely that to the first congreffu. m Andret Grandson of Lord Sambucus, every fervent one I was pinned down with countless others let them fall And against the rest of the ex- the raised part would go bolder, through the por- so the way of the city is fummo fternere he would work hard; Behold the danger the short-sighted Empulitans, the gate of so many ca- hauled up, so many beams and bundles they had broken down a pile of teeth, so that that many soldiers broke through the vjm a multitude of them, partly catarrhal and the beams lapfu, partly from the bundles crushed by the weight of the fallen, supported his life they would play with death. To such a fpedacu- Andreas Mane rim, and from the multitude of corpses terrified, at last together with Sartbo- lomceo Caftagno Campiductore ccete- rifque, flight fe fubducens, Sambucum it is reverfus, where the town of the inmate he will find a widower, a great man the uproar of the fxminas, who I will give husbands, some children, other relatives which inexorably com- in- crying Andreas vindiifta; ex ZT ftuans osftro, soon to Alexandrmn Ma- Empuium SVitt the Lord of war afumpti taking refuge with an accomplice of infatuation therefore he deliberated with the aid of the Empulitans. Hicpari vindicfa: struck with fury, inftauran with a small new attack while he cried; hence the improper per- throw ropes to the rest; military: affeclas
animating, afu the reckless town, to use the mind with disorder xa ptrcnjfifi. he applied to the wall, he will be able to make an attack in a younger place, he would be dignified Meanwhile the Empulitans hor- I make a shower of torches, and weapons fields filled with rain and corpses bant, which between Alexander in the thigh he was struck by a sword, which he soon in Caftcllum St. Viti to be treated by surgeons to carry off an unfed mule. Oh how better fuiffct Empuhtanisfi in this as well atrocious meadow Alexander among the living effe Aiewdw fail, do not kill her, ixpkm- He will have experienced a catastrophe. After this, the rest of the soldiers, de- carried by ftation, quifquevitxfugaconfu he roared, with which the fugitive soldiers, with fury and rage well excited, herding oxen, horses together with goats, sheep those flocks which you first took away, the rest all with flames and sword they bear Hifce having finished OclaYtus Vrfinus de I turned to the enemy's army, when you were so strong and great in the defense of the city he acted rashly, not foreseeing, to live here then was the enemy of Ale- sandrum, at night and for a long time rant, had conceived, proposed to be overthrown from the city done, and until he completes it, my In the meantime, the Empulitans from the victorious victory They did not engage in robberies. I wonder about it at that time Alexander Maxtmm Are you one of the former servants? to provide for a domestic family who returned to the hills, not far from the he Empulitan was robbed by robbers, the things bought, and the horse, in which he trusted he lost his sharpness. This is fast in a strange manner of leisure, as it were who committed this kind of robbery, a new one to fufficate the fury of war, he knew; undclatrons magnamili then I commanded all the parts of the roads que angiport dimiffa, inquiri prxce- pit, whom you will finally understand the gallows snorted. Then OtlaYtm hunger. Ftftapn victoria won OLD NEW LATIUM.
fi m. !um to Dominumfuumfcwi- Drwi Maximus, for all these things, which was taken from him by the robbers: they were, safe, infallible favor benevolence; he sent the pawns together with the letters to Maxi- having given the mother, cpeis de commiffo in fuo He was excavating the territory of Iatrocinius. Ve- liirn Alexander then went away, to acce- after the final revision of the concept he wears it out, so that rather he puts it on his head execution, as we shall see, it would burn C A P U T IV T)e total Vrbis Empuliranaj deyaflatione. Alexander Jvlaximi Mindiftce hot-tempered Touching evil immodestly quoquefecum of evil savuv mnium ulaciein pulls, quse where the scum raged, soon so ex- ccEcatintelleelum, the will per- turns, and so the man is brutal renders him impotent, as not even the Divine nor human laws capable of anything I die in religion and cool down, until he turns all things at will He rested. This pado Alexander Maximus St. Viti Toparcha diabolic overwhelmed with rage, he does nothing, nothing he leaves no stone unturned, as the intent of mo fcelus, that is, ukimum Empulitanit many exterminations and devastation at last to complete the pofht. Whence per- with confusion of mind its harmful and long-lasting he was already in love with the crime in which manner he spoke in his mind. with therefore not a small number of soldiers pia Anagniig, and other neighboring places, whom to St. Vine at his nod He chose to fasten the feet: then Tybur fe where he was engaged in business with the S. R. E. CardinaleCf farino Loci Epifcopo con-
He protected the greatest; here he is all dressed up as well 'ZlimtL tried to turn away the enorml refinement dtfonmr. brought, the childish concubine of this kind Pon- with the authority and confidence of the vato follumodo in OclaVmm hate, as with such an innocent fan I did not execute him with an effusion must to see what he was doing He would not pass him with impunity, whatever at last it will be effected. Alexandrt mind already confirmed by obftination, fpreto Cardinal's confidant, paternal admonition
not at all softened by his intention, his relinquishment you warn another tclam of the order, as always so much the more clever, the more mind to Maximus must be poured with the blood of the Empulitans whom he reconciled with the Empiditans he did not know how to burn with hatred, he discovered, who to be used in every possible way, so that alliance with Alexander throw into extermination they took life, ftratagemate pro- the right was in vain, which was of this kind. Empuli was celebrated every year in the feft of St. Martin's world-famous nx, and that great day was spent gently Judah's merchants in con- arrested the execution of the criminal, who on the same day rode in the morning compare the goods of Empiili rent which was unlucky; however- Alexander was feared, not a man the soldiers whom he had assembled for the work to be done (dvh Sciarram Cohnnenfen, tam Tnene- sciarra ftes the Lord, who used a more ferocious in- c"ml He was a genius, so I was also poor! I would like to say, chin he willingly added. inter- on the rimday of St. Martin the whole city in feftiv- tate diffufa, impending fibi of the unprovided state, while the chief fione ad Ecclefiami". Martim extra ur- they would contend well, and Otlavius fummo intcreffet, eccc confetim ex abditis vicinx fylvarreceffis erumpensho- the small army, which they rits, all to one with no place two thousand you ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI About vajlant ercitioruhabitorefpe&u, sparing no one combed or woven, (where OclaYms so much the happier, the greater the piety tis fenfu, while the facris are killing him, he died) the ungodly, with a cruel hand he slew, every one Abdu&o with the ecclesiastical apparatus. This perai5to, terrible fane effort together with Sci a copiofa of soldiers by the hand to come you, they turn the rage into the city, make I read rapturously, whatever is precious in Ecclefii there was smoke, close to the houses of the earth tis, snatched away whatever from man he had stolen from them, to be destroyed then, thus between four or five the whole city, in part, within a few hours flame, partly by the violence of weapons everfa, buried in the ruins of former houses, into this every day I was ve He could show the wounds and so much suffering it was farcical, as from the univerfr of the city Colis, not these three of the noblest, quo- The names of the Mmafim were written by Santlius Moricanus Zm Francifcm Santacellus, lacobm Ma- Jtpofnim. jllus, they escaped. Nor is this the fury of the soldiers ftctit: fiquidem Monafterium deValle They invade Cotta, they fpoliate Ecclefia, Monks to one all heads; which was so enormous, a great deed God did not want to remain unpunished. utthDivi. For while I perambulate by abhorring moved outside Ecclefia fpoliis onufti rent, a sudden burst of lightning adeb they blazed on the wicked, as from fe- out of to all the rest of the lightning tia proftratis When Alexander audiiffet, wild penitence leads the fpolia ecclefia he soon took care of his recovery; fed Divine: vindidbxfurorfupereum, tan- than the Author of all evils the fubitb is plucked out, for he is unborn stroke the same day perforated, shortly at the time the wicked soul He poured out his nation; Tyburtini every cfil'"s runt, from Cardinal Ctfarm to such a terrible the obftupefcentc deed of death hit I trap life in the gallows, Tjy- bure in the rupefani of the Sibyllines, they ended; where the eyes of all passers-by the gluttons hung out so long, until the car- lest they fell The rest of the army Parsj with the town of Minutula, cums today's rush bur Caflrum S. Angdijnon far from AquidiiCtibusfpetantur, they would attack, They were so indignant with them that they destroyed a great part of the thousand; until at last they all fled from their enemies perftitibus opprcffi and massacred, gosdia let the end be poor, equally disaffected with disputes, whose ma-. a part of the surroundings. town sleepy people, quiet; Vrbis de-
the land of the Empulitans armed with reason, with which zeal was compunfti invading by hand, no fpeveniatre- they settled, they completed, so that 8c city, the entire army bdomadis fpatia together with evils It was destroyed by the authors; back and forth by the inscrutable judgment of God, the Empulitans in Ecclefia intent on works of piety, in- three times they would obtain forgiveness from God: ini- mici verb fcelerum bad mnium Archit&i, arriving together with you were a team, they would play penalties, they would they will last forever. At- that here was a terrible vetuftiffimx Vrbis Empulitance destruction, which con- died in in the reign of Alexander IV Pontiff. C A P U T OLD NOVlM LATIUM. C A P U T V, extrucli ex ruderihuj Empulitahis Caftri S. Angcliorigine So we went to the fu pra, three only cxNobiliori the bus of the city, from the walls They had cast down the Moors in despair videlket Santaceilum Maillum, eh- pfos VicoVarum to a safe place, to- you can judge OciaYii Vrjini of the place Lord's fubdinJ, fe contuliffe. , where fum- my eternal pain, noct. u and long, how the city is enmity with all Extin5tis, denu6 poifet to be infatuated, fccum they deliberated I came with a variety of the cults would meet, the business with Eremicola, which is on the top of the hill, in Ec- clefiola Territory Ampilionisfahje&a. , s. It was said to the angels, and just where gtiitWgo Coflcllum S. Angeli, commonly known as Madame, Madimc. then the name of the Hermitage he drew, he dwelt, he contributed. Who is so large, delicious, things wildest territory of all however, he cried out to be neglected; and therefore the best thing to do is to look at the fibi said he, be in the same place obtentapriusa fummo Pontifice permission to build they would lay the foundations of the city: how a Pope Vrbanus IV at that time in the heat of disaster, which they had run into They got it by surprise. So I returned colk&a multi- with clay, with furnaces built and bundles, as if the mountain were fooling, in you make a big pile, new op- they laid the foundations of the Pidi, so and so and so sparing labor, within a year ad end of year whose families would grow; I want to trusting the place no less advantage, how delightful ad to dwell, the whole wall of Caftell with the strongest, and not even with the highest towers they fortified so that the bel- they did not have their belts at the time, because they would no longer be afraid of the hips. In the year FortibracckU di Fonibi-ac- V II U a n I A lord LajtcUo Suburbw, nor even ports, quxLeVifadkhm, constructed, that is greatly expanded, in the form of He brought back the talitii, to use it from the register gate It is clear that it is inlaid with marble. And This is a town with a large number of inhabitants in number, fucceffu time, fub Do- the minion of Fortibraccrum grew up, and an additional which AlpbonftnaVrftna Domui Medice. e (with whose help Caftell and the gates and streets are newly built, it has given rise to a great deal of growth. defponfata, that for dowry fupplemen got to It happened just like that Carol V. The emperor gave birth to a daughter tural in modern times, I will say from Auftria, He would bring it to the Medici house for the wedding; Ve- cwMada- familitf defponfata in recognition to the endowment of St. Angeli's Cathelus, which in this and every day from her commonly called Caftdlo Mada- it is said to me, it remains. Today is the year fub jurifdiftione Marquios xandri Taila years. The hill on which the op- pidum fun given cft, fitum has oppi- I give a delicious field of fruits to everyone kind, and not herding oxen, herds udders of goats and cattle mum, from the bank of the Anienh river I did not swim two thousand cowards, too with the noblest piffes. Hill where it grows like a mound in the valleys on every side and on every side mountain ridges like a crown then a wonderful pleasure to the fpe&ators contributes But if you look at them more closely, I will attach a map here, in which Sc Ampi- glioni-s diftriCrum, 8cCaftriS. AngehCi- and when you know everything, why? in the old places, you can compare them. C A P U T ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI
C A P U T VI T)e relicjuis Vrbibm Territorio Tyburtini. JJfitla obsolete in Ty- burtino Agro town, de which Livy Two, he said the war that took place in the year with Tyburts to dedttioncm pttgna- tmn The city of Saftula was taken from these, and so on the towns would suffer the same fate, if not ttniVerJagen sbpfitu arms in ftdem Confu- lis yenitjet trmnphatum about Ty burtibus. We are fed up with various guesses Infpeclion of these places Saf I have not been so happy anywhere else than where Saffiila vt- just confiftit the town of St. Gregory, fub mt". L"" jurifdi&ionc Eminentiflim Cardinalis those who do not follow the mountain roads spread out the town on all sides which he made passable, fed by the suburbs The royal magnificence was built in a strange way, he expanded. Sajfu- I think that day from the hill to whom it is unfathomable. Indeed, when the fub to the Roman Impractors, A long time ago the race of JEquorum also in Latium the new name is transferred to this place the dominion of the Tybttrtines was protenfa; For Tac. ansal. using the most important Scripture: He said, "I am going to depulfojam Nero-" lest, when he was loved, they inquired, and om- Rubellius Plautus celebrated the tur, all nobility through thousands It increased the rumor of parity the interpretation of the flagellum; For because it is difficult Bentis Nero's apttd Simbmmijiagna, to whom the name of Sublaqueum is given menfaqtte disjecla erat a stroke had taken place, whence the paternal Plautus ori"o, this god ban I went to the right bank of the Anienus mill: pafT. That same Keron, where lightning difcumbentis, disjecTis protein so much it was a roar, extitiiTe, fupra when de Aniene flttmine agercm, demonstrated it was also not a town far away from Tybur in front
For a while ccdents we often. Of Longulay which 'Pokjiria is called, we made fufe in Hijioria Euphtachiomariana, which con- full A long quidcm tribe from Sajfu- la pafluummilibus diflitam, fupra ci- tati Authores in Ytta Marcus Coriolanus and the ruins of which are buried in this a certain day on a hill in the green region of the Duke of Tolan, which they call the Chain. 'Polttjtria vero PokttrU. nova, fivc today, the town of Toli is from extruclum of the ruins of old Pcluftrue in the valley of the high mountains, the slope impofitum fpeclatur, from which Longula ve- tus, thousand S; about five hundred once upon a time the rise of the verfus was difficult, tefte LiYto, March Coriolanus against the Omanis the most famous faction: Longula was said because of the city's growth in long-term production then; and many, by what error Pollujtriam Sc Longula for two they took the town the wrong way, when if they were not a single city, different leaves different names of renters cracking that as well as the palace of the Excell. Ducis Polani, hifcc He said: Now Pole, in the ancient fumdiclaVo- warfare; ago Vtx near quaftteras, Longula no- men habcs Jnfenftts left us in March the city fhtid wonder? You don't want to be too lazy it was wings. From Tyburttna Vrbe, near the ruins of Ampi- Glion's falconry is hidden, mum Cajiellttm impofitum of the mountain, Sici- Skitu. Theodulus, by name obteoto, according to 1erii conjecture, exhabitationepri- (the Eusicans, they used to call them, fic di&i who were driven out of Latium by the aborigines, They fixed the same thing there; use in practice teeth OLD NEW LATIUM. we spit it out with our teeth. Hence the mountain A great plain is met with, with which he added to the rest, a huge fub mountain St. Euphtachius rock, the village of Pifonis five Pifonians met, ano, vicus nobilis prxamplus, Ul. 1M The family of the Theologians: it is of jurisdiction. And from here to the south mill. the town of S. Fiti is poor, that with much commemoration worthy to contain, that in a special chapter ftrmgam C A P U T VII T)e Scopulo conwffioni Divini Euptachius facro, deEcclefa It was founded by Conftantinus the Great. J Icus Pifonis, fM town, south of the hill ex- J trudum, reru ubertategau- gives, therefore a little before I said-
mouse. or DniEuftachu, one with vafta: mass fcopulo fuperimint. And here it is a memorable place for all the starches, in with which the Divine goodness and kindness with the god Euphtachius, whose name was once Placido, miraculously to God Chriftiana: Embraces the faith of religion she was pleased to work. For while deer of great size tur, and him already within the great mountain He would have believed that he had been taken captive; deer spring palm rum altuin fcecepiifet, then enimve- ro Placidus astonished at this prodigy I am paying more attention to him in the fcram, the peak fcopuli holding, eyes mind- that he will convert; Behold the crucifixion fixed between the horns of a living deer, and the vine artfully opening the door, what it is necessary for him to do it, he says; expand fcftinating Iketmam, fe facro baptif- he would take care to wash the mat in the spring, and then returned to this place, taught mcnta falutis xternaj, vkx impofte- rum inftituends; method reason he would perceive Thus everything happened. And so he converted fioni Dbi Euftachius facrum, Conftan- thin Great, to the Divine stern: ap- in this place of the Parion of the Divine Euphtachius fa&a: to remember, he built Ecclefia, which SanElits Sybefter the Pope then in Deipara, and in the honor of Sanfli Euphtachius he did the thing with malice. take this ro in the smoke of those times, those the Goths and the Romans, and the whole of Italy They were filled with bitterness, and I longed for destruction S. 'Benedi&ws monafterio ibid ex- he pushed back. E6o with the year into this horrible folly the error of the ways, not so humane than the Divine two who trusts the celebrity more closely raifcm; etc. tis inftindu, and also of an incredible place seized with devotion, I made no move a stone, to a place very close together conveneranda Eccleiia, &fcopulo, in quo vcKKsChnftiani, eoinloco, where a deer inscribed with the image of the Crucifixion had burned, the torch, whose inhunc and every day they fast rant, priests: fux devotion celebration -to be restored to the state; that this is the same with the arm with which I write this, I am pretending afpir, antis grace, distrust of Religiofili- I Casfaris Leopoid the first, Duke Sa1a- ria, and viceroy of Keapolitan, His Excellency that of Peter d'Jorrom, nor III. Lord S. R. I. Mannis Frederici The Earl of was praftiturh; and already on the of September San&i Michael the Archangel, great mukorum of thousands of men, ad Communion, as it may be said, gene- ralem, every year I settled in that place foliated, frequented by confluence. From at this point by a thousand fathoms When they had finished their meal, they came across a village Guadagnolium, commonly known as Quadamuolo, who Aa" Exccl-- if ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI He faces the most excellent Duke PoUno; llnde as if from a nearer place Ec- ckfta Deipara Euflachiarue name obtained, LaMadonna di Quadagnuo lo True, when this place was born riam, in the book, whose title is, Ht- Euphtachio-Mariana's flowers, how abundant we will defcriple the rime, hither and thither we let go CAPUT OLD NEW LATIUM. CHAPTER VIII The town of San&i Viti. S. Vitus, in cujw Ec- clefia from Cfl nibw r. ibi- dn morji he fanned is attached f Rivers with thousands of paiTuums Tifoniano facing south, tHl ut' x' as many verfus occafum a Tolluftria five Longula, folo monte Vul- the turret was made interjecl. Erautum Iequorum oppidutn, therefore Livius Li. of C. Martius Coriolanus. Circejos, in- quit, the first colonists, from there Ro- He drove out the Manos and freed that city He handed over to the wolves; thence tn the Latin way tranferfs tramitibm tranjgrejfus Satri- with, Longulam, Polluftria Corio- wool noVclla Ltc Kommis town he sends thence he took back Lavinius; then stock Corbion, Vitellia, Trebia, He seizes the lava and the foot, He brought Vrbe from Pedus, lias five abVrbe pajfuum thousand ca- ftrapofuit Of the priest of this town mine authors oontrovertunt, non- no Vitellius, no one Satricus, to others 'Bolds' or 'Treba'
but no one has any of these having had a name We are friends quarrels, his modern way let's talk about a few Sanclus Vitius, the town of the Marquis Theodoli jurifdi&ioni parens below Euphtacbian mountain about two thousands of miles of river the name is strengthened by Ecclefia Vi- you, when from the mouth of a rabid dog hy- suffering from drophobia is the only refuge they find a remedy by the merits of Sandti; Hence the impressive celebrity of the name he acquired Such a town by Nature He got the result, the use of the mountains he seems to be struggling with the amenity. No- the bilious palace rejoices; pknities the whole hill because of the difpofito of the elms in the walks rum shadow, smoke fpeftantes He wins all the fruits every kind, except corn, abounds he brings forth the most excellent wine, or ex most celebrated in that chapter, which nor fills his head with smoke, and with the power which he would like diuretics, a big fan to contribute profit. To the castle in with the yoke of the hill stone pavements with which the street they grind, it is not finished. All around the fylva mountain they are dressed in caftans; trees, ma- gno annual results, which from that ac- quiruntlncola; , cmolumento Sources Lirif, today this op- lice When they first return, celebrate: di- They are a thousand miles from the town about pallbus, &exmontisHydro- phylacio per feptem fcaturigines, to use discovered by a curious examination, they flow out, which, having been corroded into one, many others increased from one side to the other, the river secure Garigliou, which &Geogra- phi Lirim is called a confutituit, which by The field of Soranus and Suejfa in Campania I was burdened with a great weight the Thyrrenian sea is rolled away. Great in this place between the Genneans and the Sancii The contention arose among the citizens; to them, fon tes di&i river in fuo Territory heretofore in the territory of the former to those contending, how Iitem by him who is made in the way I gave it to you. Seven sources, of which I said a little before, in the deep valley of the town di Viti within the fpacium uniuscircitcr a thousand miles, nafing in order, truly pro- I was originally from Terntorio S. Viti I was on the west side runs through the broken valleys, or ipfoa I was terrified by the proximity of the rocks fcopulofumque mountains traclum in- skin, where from the horrible r. upe huge the amount of water bursting soon in the river the vum grows, which is used in the Territory Genneano rises, and thus to- then flowing into the Gennean Territory Aa Tandeni, A T H A N A S I at the end of the river from St. Vi It is joined to the springs of the child. this so- that the origin is not the end of the source It is clear from this that Gariglioni is said to be a poet it is from the first source of the said springs not a little bit about the paffuus folo mohte S. Vitt interje&o diftet, ex in the same way phylacio is drawn, so that consequently both which nation was cut off from this chapter in a suit have an intention JEfula was a neighbor of Tybur, with Horace rightly mentions Carm. Odaz8. He will rescue I K I R C H E R I phi it occurs between Tybur Vrdnefte I am a coward. But ha: c about the fit of Afu- fill in the map heretofore interfered with. Tendentibus verb from Tybure juxta vico VjTO the right bank of the Anienes is covered with thousands of pafria, fuum, you will soon meet Varia five as others Vicum Varronis, vulgb Vico Varo And this is the ancient Valeria, a which Via Valeria was the day, modb Vrfi- our jurifdi&ioni fubftat, to the bank stick to the right, the most popular trout tis famous From here half a journey between Valeriam Sublacum town, Carfeo- f'u The town is formed by a road, from which pidivettrK Ke femper udum Tybur isr JEfulx QecltPe contemplates affmn, isr. Telegoni parrtcida bring supply, i? ardtm is clouded by a mass of clouds Stop wondering happily Smoke, tsr wealth and Urepitus Romx. And although Flinius says, I have already been most of the towns of Latium at the end of the wave giis perifie, I, however, as far as ex collect by continuous locality jEnii. re I could, I mean JEfula every mil- liaribusTHre diflitam, from the region of the prar-
the gods, who are commonly called Corcollo, safe for there the bridge will meet you who covers Verefin ftuVius, rises a little a pound of Gallican, then four thousand by the banks of the Pafiu below the Tybur Anieni mi-' He wants a double a road is opened, the first of which on the right I was Tufculum&hera. declining from the north Verfus Volum tends to Vrxnejie. From the right and then across the huge slope of the bridge provides a way, the ancient ruins and with swift motions, confpicuous, which even from the slopes of the victuals, the rains the earth is washed away by the rains in time fe manifeftajrt; and in this place JEfulam the confit fuifle from Paulb mentioned before I gather from the words of Horace. Hefemper wet Tybur is" JEiulx DeclCve contemplated the field Additionally, the ancient geogra- the town of Jusruini, which is not to-day ablution is called Arjoli, ex- it is broken; from here Sublake ScidSim the mountains and ponds of old Trebam today we reach TreVt, from which tribe the fountains of the Anienes cfantur, of which with inprxceden- tibusfat act. umfit, here e ron to be repeated I married Cornicttum celebrated the oldest that the town of the Sabines met the fub collious, whose priorhodie S"' Ange- li, another Monttcellt is said, who ob the similarity of the two horns threatening Corniculani cojles diceban- there Of Sublaco Treba I said foolishly mouse already the remaining states of Maruccino Rum, Marforum, Samnites, 'Pelignorum- let us attack. To the fountains of the hills of the Father, who on day lPww)-dicitur, Marrucmos a Ve- dum. slims, Strabo tefte, divides, Amiternum it has become, of which LiViml. will write: T. Cornclium fecundo Coif. A mother He was attacked by the Samnites. In on the same hill o&o miles away oidum Furconium also famous, Fmconium x, rv. mtitt of the town In all three, they appear not a little; ma- iHm. the foundations of significance, another already died long ago: Furconium verb Lon-- they overthrew the gobards, from whose ruins An eagle with five thousand wings Ami- ApiU. It was built up by the three-legged bird adinftar predominant not abfimi- issue Next comes Corfinium, which is the first town. in the war Marftco called Italy, as if IVarforum water htiium OLD NO as common to Italian universities 8c fortress against the Omani people, as Straho teaches. There are still some fast spots. Marforum the nations and all the Samnites. the Pennines are fit, they originate from Marfo Circes Vlyfiis rilio. so although Solinus them from Marfya, who vi- clus ab Jpollinehuc conceived migrated yit. But the name of the people was more fearful bofts When he was fleeing to Vrygia beyond Xqnora Marfya Crenas Mygdonium Phcebi fuperantk pe- Cline Lawton The beginning of defe&ion ltalite from Marfis cce- pit, because freedom was not obtained by the communion of the commonwealth they deserve, exquodeindefocialebellum It is called Marficum. Vi&i at last it was from Sylla, under whom then Cice- v u m wide: iSj Lake Fu- ciiius he served in the army. Their chief Marrulium Marm: near Fucinum lake from Marro condi- riumM tore, called by Silius and Virgil. These Marforum five Jequorum, as LiYio please fimul with Erfenia Alba 8cc: colony they are of Oman, C. Genutio Scrgio Comelio Coss. dedu&ce, tcfte Livy in Propc is Fucinm Lacus, now with the name changed from It is called the pius of Celano, whose hemiffarium Claudius did this, and he did the work in this way and that way diemvifu futupendum: for now March came. four years ago from the pifcator within this Lake's fun- she found a dumciftula, full of numif- with silver mats, which is a $(Oman's hood were, of whom twelve illuft. Marc-Antonius Colonna, Valiani fort- The ruler of the dispute, instead of being in me and my affection, he gave whose type is here to be falsified I married various Veterwrt Ramjmorum jurrv so jrriJem. itx Xacti Jlucma reperm whose TMyartkcTpemjecttTthyt: Counma. G-ubernaicr Medea also lived here They went, and the vimfoporifera was struck 6c spells Marfos docuiffe di-
count Valeria %egm here Strahoni Aa is placed, Athanasius is placed, to which from the "bridge of Lucan" "tio fa&o Vta Valeria Macenatis arched roads, to the Hercu- if you stretched out the lion, it was carried away; then through bridge of Anienis Marfos ScCorJinium city Farewell to Valeria Volaterrano, my country (It was Boniface IV, already extinct. Nos but not Carfeolos, fed VicoVa- I K I R C YESTERDAY rum Valeria the ancient fuiffe fufra to whom For this town of Tlinius Ttolomteus among Mqucolcu nomiml which nation belonged to Marfos, fimul with Clajitius, whom; kill them all matter and from their ruins a new town give VtcoVarum, Talliacotium, Qtlanm, founded
part OLD NEW LATIN. i? i Hercules of the temple construction P A R S II, On the Tyburtian Antiquities. C A P U T I Te tAnticjuhatibiu Tjburtmu, as to Fana&' Dekbra, T)eorum first of the Temple of Hercules Hercnui of the temple elim rnA- gnomes N of the predecessors oftenfum was, at the time of the Sican priests! rivers, the Temple of Saturn in Heir to the town of Tybnrtino fuifTe, the most illustrious by the celebrity of the name; and then the starches in she transferred various nations to Italy destroyed by grace, by the Archcei brothers, to the exponents of the city, into a magnificent Hercules, like Evander plum, was brought forth, not to be despised: &ftru&urx size. hercu for I will bring them out of Hepperia from Eve drom Montefallantio, every day it is called small, not omniduntaxatho- except I meet the storm, fed infu through the multitude of gifts Evandrum facra ipfi inftituiffe, from "We returned to Dionysius. Tybur, too, He brought Hercules to the Argive nation to liven up the common people, lifsc, Vincentius Juftinianus, Epifco- pus Gravinenfis in a certain Oration The panegyric is composed: We think that Ve- rb, he says, that Hercules, when in La- tium perVentJfet, Cncumquefuo- Tybur, he will slaughter the oxen because ad Grxcosfuos inVtfendosfe contu- lijfe, where with many benefits in them tijfet, immortality nomhus coho- nejlandum ejfe rati, fumma with religion worshiping the temple, of which still remains they lost their minds, magnificently extru- xerunt, (fMtHerculei Kmpli's fame by all natwnes emanaVerit. Tt certainly Tem- plum fuiffe marble fumma variety you are clothed and clothed, from the wind the gijs of the fragments is clearly visible; whose Sc luVenalts Satyra mention He does not do that, whose turn is a waste in the village We brought Centronii. Almost a temple the form which the preceding picture shows, it was And he was surrounded by long and large porches, nspncelfcfulcieant, from the gate of Villt Macenatis, very Via Valeria ten- debating, starting, continuing to supply cumfubftrusionibus, ufqueadipfum It was extended to the Hercules; through which Augufiumfxpe traniifle, &inea, ubia: rarium amplificumerat, jus di- xifle Appianus l. bells civil delivers The library was also intruclam fuif- Rt1' fc l opulentialibrorum fplendidiffimi bibi. oche- Gellius Authoreft, att. nod i9j c.
whose words I add here: In Tyburtc, he says, let us conceive of him as a friend of man dtVitis, tetate annt flagranttpimi e? p isr some of my family members quentne ty fhilofophixfeSidtores. It was a good man isr peripatetic do- clarine teaching well, ijr Ariftotelis uni- cc fiudwftjlimm; he gave us a lot of water from dtliita niVe he checked the drinkers, feVe- and rebuked the stream. It was right for us thoritatcs of the noble physicians', isr cum first Ariftotelis fhtlofoph, of all things a human expert who knows the water of NiVal frugtbusfane isr arbortbm facundam dt- ceret brem effe, and loss isr morbosfenjim that in a long day Vtfceribm inhmina- really Htc indeed he led us prudently beneVole isr afsidue dtciabat: fed citm bi- Difturfit the niVis would become little and none, pro-ZTi "Hercules's temple of fate conveniently falls in it was, Ariftoteli's book, and even brings ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI brings forth. And hujm fahemfinqmt, Yirifapien-
believe in tijjimi )herbs not to drive the VeHra. in that book He died, and I was able to get water out of it niVe, caufaqnc added there ways: Because with the water the air is cold endures and unites, it is necessary to be done poration, ? qitandam quajiauramte- the worst thing to be expressed from it, r to emanate, that is but he said, "I will be happy in it, that evaporates; it remains, however, that graceful bold infallible, at- that the pidfu of the air was beaten. in fashion and the color of the ffuma rises in whiteness. But somewhat, which is trickier, to be deceived but to evaporate from the nite information that ejl, as she becomes smaller than she was before would congeal When we read this, we were pleased I would like to have the honor of weapons, and so I pofmoditm the war I did not mention the odtum, but you may introduce others with et they were praying. This is Gellius. It was the temple of the most numerous gods mum, and all Miniftri especially Sa- the pigs, whom the Herculaneum Auguftales they appealed to the fummo honor xfti- they had information, to use from the registration buspatet, as from the ruins of the deteiSx ficfo nant M. SILLANI FIL. D E L I C I O JUNLt P. F. TYRANNID WIFE OPTVMf C. ALBIUS HVILL L. Afraid Afraid HER. AUGUST. P. MUMMiO P. r. GAL. SS. SENNA RUTILIAN COS. AVGVRI PROCUS PROVINCM ASI LEG AVG. PR. SVPERIORIS R. SATVRNILEG VICTORY Reporters TRIBVN. PL. TRIBE LEG. V. MACED. style JVDIC PATRONO MVNICIPII CVR THE FANS HERE V. JUMP HERCVLANII AVGVSTALES v Vtfitm in Ecdefias ntonjiii already destroyed C. SEXTILIVUS V. V. TIBVRTIVM LIBERTVS EPHEBVS HERCULANIVUS AVGVSTALIS Another was fixed on the wall of the house, next to the fountain of the TriVio. CVR MD VRB IV. MAN HERC. AVG. TIBVR patron
Other JubcrtoSt Marisede Angels mafclnt rum ide]ft HercnK To the victor votumfol OLD NQVUM L A T I U M. Aliainbafiftatusfiniftne -gypt. near the Cathedral G. RUFIN BY ORDER H AUGUSTAL SENATE POPVLVSQ. TIBVRS CoemptumfuiffeOfficiumAugftalis Minifterii fequen infricpt docct: T. Claudius SALVIANO Herculaneum Aug. FREE CREATED PVBLICARY It is found in Ecclefia Ablatix TatrumMonashorum OUkmh. Wnsvoti- vamicnptio
C. JVLIVS C. F. PAL TRIBVN. MILITARY TWO CVRATOR FANS
FROM THE TREASURY OF SATURN In Ecckfvt destroyed just S. VtrgtnKdclPaJfo.
P. RVSTICELLIVUS DANCER HER. VICT M Next to the temple of S'1 Andrea. C. MILIO C. F. FAB. ANTONIO EQJTTI ROMANO ALL HONORS HONESTLY PERFVNCTO CVR HER FANS VICT Pontiffs This temple was eagerly inaugurated by Sertius Sulpitius Trophimus, in honor of Mercu- dedicated to the rock, fub coff. L. Turpilio right, Mecio %ufa fequcns incriptio HERCVLI SAXANO SACRED SERIES SVLPICIVS T. TROPHIMVS EAT TOTHEC the kitchen SVA money He stopped alone K. DECEMBER L. TVRPILIO RIGHT M. MECIO RUFO COSS EUTYCHIUS SEV. To be carried out He took care of it. Bb Hercules ATHANASU KIRCHERI not heaped up in heaps" Lacrau tampits la- pidofm, in qitoHercu- with it filiH Ne- dihmpu gnagljt. rushes Ijj4 It was said that Hercules was a Saxon when he was about to fight against the giants, and if he were poor, he Jupiter in- he called the rain of the fringes; of by which Pomponius Mela, who field He puts it in Gaul at Narbonne. In Gallia Narbonnfi ignoble shore efi la- a son, as they call him, in which Hercules against Antroclum Bargiona Nep. tuni children Jimicante, with telaJefecif- fent, sent by the invoking Jove with a shower They carry the UpiJum. Whatever happens, place here, this, and each other Arelatum and the shore, where Bojanus failed in emptying the sea, and today it is called la degree Also literate Herculeus Cam- they still call it smoke, which works, while Arelate Marfilia in the year I would transfer, with a false mind I struggled with reflection; the field is stone the bus was so crowded that it had to be put on its feet let it be, at the end of the other stones given the works for three thousand paffus of women, who do not have the earth at all they come together, and I have not so connected each other they are not in the sheep of the goats sprigs of thyme, oregano, with a pickaxe, which:
from the empty spaces of the stones from the earth nant, let them yield abundantly; do things live worthy whether it is true art, let this plain be filled with stones of this kind te&us becomes, as from the immemorial He was a famous pig, yes Hitherto he hid himself in every corner. But already to the Temple of Hercules the wall I wonder how much of which defcri- the choice both of the victorious and of the victorious it was allowed to collect, I say to both, Satur- no Hercules, in him the worship of the caxa gen- tiltite conftitum fuiffe. The fabric is true it was such as in the fertile fchematc you will be contemplated C A P U T II Te Sibyllaz Albune, five Tyburtina: Tcmplo. Statue of Si- byllx m get CA' tadufta in vcnta. . other Tyburtina Vrbis great reminders too in ruins you were fplendefcitTan- river cliff tarrasiam impofitum, which some VesU, most of the SibylU, fuiffc iCefare AmuFto they fanned out. We know what let's vent, here I propose mouse Who cx the Sibyl to the Scribes Tiburtina in the time of Ctfaris Augustus they want to smoke, smoke and hallucinate tur, with her already many times before he should be kept alive; I already have through the pore of Varro his temple was expiring, and his portrait with a book in his hand in pro- Varro found at the bottom of the gurgle hifceverbisteftatur: Tenth, he said Tiburtem, named Albunca, or Ti- bure is worshiped as a goddess from the gurgling of which his thigh was found fuiffe Jtciturjenens a book in his hand. Which but whether he lived at the time is so uncertain, tjuam dubia 8c is deceptive to almost everyone It is a collection of the authors of ca. There are those they think that it was in the time of King AJ, cpi juxta Euphebius foot that is, years before ftum, who Olympiadc ipzjuxtacom-' muncm Ecclefia: calculus born tradi- there Others, Sibyl Tiburtina Olymp, let them live the pores of Ofctt and Zacharix the prophets, and in the time of Sefnius Tullius III %omanorum; others at the time of TsLunue Tofi- he, the fertile King of the Omani; not de- are, together with Sibyl Cumceacon they found, that Tarquinio Suferbo, teftc Dionysus you were selling books he had read, although others were ob- they want wide Whatever happens, use it in such a way of the author, both of the time, and of by the names of the sibyls who differed confuses, complicates, truths tingcrc, so also they do not imrnora- let us eat more, fed the folus, for Sibyl Tiburtina from tradition echo V E T S N O V U let us not have, hfc to bring the living it was Cefar Augustus will assist in the matter the important Oracle of Delphi when, from the already mute Dea ftro no other rcfponfum acce- it is carried more than what is done here M L A T I u M. if$ What he commands, he rejects three times Orcttm Here. when he hears, rnoxlibrosSibyf. He began to support them: with the horses, teite haronto m apparatus Atinalmm, with from the birth of the children of God in the flesh n. .
-uiiltln captdoJio, with this epigraph. THE ALTAR OF GOD'S FIRST BEGOTTEN. CHRIST THE LORD WHICH AUGUSTUS CONCERNS THE VIRGIN THE LIVING BORN WORSHIPED THE FOLLOWING THE LORD SAID, HE SAID I adore in the first year of Oclaviani, from Occafione Cefa+z, fub Coss. C. Cor- nelto Lentulus, Sc Marcus Valerius tac, z5dieDecemb. when the Word arternum m world vcniens from He was pleased to be a virgin. Und cum btbyllam Albunea Tjbure jamabim I was worshiped at a memorable time noflet, his temple, which is near npam Amems to Catarrada swollen by the voraciousness of the river almd to the honor of whose temple he erected while cenfmt; and it is that which nodierno day which is complete. still fu- the prerogative of the Ancients, the magnificent archi- teaonic the work of the master of art ipeC. atur him from Libns Sibyini. from to the wind In Deiinmundum, fequcnti verfuum tenorlegjaudifiet: True tpfe Tem gave here mu- unwashed The song, which shows the fanclamp really small He will conceive, that the Nazarenes will find a thousand light Quemfub came DenmBetlemkaru- ra Ytdebunt nimmfeltx, cmlo dtgniftma Ma- thrice How much will he be weaned from the breast? prolcm. The ox was taken and prostrated on the ground Vlt kcJue impoftcrHm as if The whole thing ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI CBf A. Meae. The whole temple was shaped round, with the columns of the Pucherry and Corinthia elaborate architecture. Column: abacus, five farms. The strength of the columns Jntercolumnare fpatium Wall graffiti Diameter of the inner temple The height of the column at the end of the balcony The height of the capital. The width of the pig Palm. shine
But each architect's faneadomnes: the rules of the art are adapted so see in the practical diagram. This is the same wrong CluPerm, Ti- lurni ajdemfuiffeaumat; I have been in the honor of the Sibyl from Augusius, It was clear, and the architectural system was ipfa At increased times it is self-evident. Spc&atur ftatua SibylU Tiburtinc in the garden OLD NEW L A T I U M PB. VIEW OF CATAKltACE from jtoraz m Temple of SyhiUx Whose fahrica juxta- omncs irchii ttcnnaca: artis rcaulas cxtrucht jtrout hadic ccmttur cx. yrmatur Layers Sijylla; in Horto Mflenfiij. palm. high, made of stone Lydia, having a cap of Egyptian hair usually twisted into cirrus; the child's feast near Thee babens, ofto palm. altairr. quam Tibur- tin Tibur, others fi- Melicerta Leucotbix They say that they were sufficiently fed up see My thologues at Comte Nata- lemj Soccatium of other things. We do not have it from the eponymous name Leucotbiam Allu- neamfed from Jlbula by the sulphurous stream of the lake which, where most of the habitations are carried, We know what Alhmea said in truth with the story of Inoe, Clearbo, Melicerta, Leucotbea, the Sibylla for the difparatiffimam compare the narrative of events it is not at all rare. The truth about udders in fertile Bb PART Water in America A T H A N A S I I K I R C H E R I P A R S III, D. e Aquitrum variety, what field They are found in Tiburtino. C A P U T I, You are the fourfold generation of the waters. water genera ra in Agro Tyburtiito river Fresh water partly in different mountains tium convallis-fcaturi- entiunr, partly exLacuFucino, Zcfon- tt by Aquiduclus brought hither to which the water of the river Ani- enii, that the whole Tyburtina Vrbe in he spluttered, then through the dangling fcup their pivecipita dcvoluta, magnifa- lest he irrigate the Territory creates This is done by Aquafer- rata, as they call it, not far from the ruins Vtlla Adrianet, interrubeta&fpinofa creating these things; which; become the walls broken stones, against the confluence the commiftion of these things the fortress should be properly cleaned, nothing to do with it a more useful development of the city, and r. u. a. rent Yybunini pharmacy ad to cleanse the bodies of all Medi- corum Catharticis falubrius conducti- f libiufque, quece, to use cx iron vein mifta with the doctor of antimony, the origin leads the fua, so also the velunicopo with a wonderful ass plucked from all soil shower the bodies of the evil-doers delivers Splenic hypochondriac it works in a strange way. Spring in huuc ufquediemncgleclajacetjvel cx the urgency of the doctors, or the negli- the nations of the nations, whose growth whether to promote the public They know how to this water has the ability to produce leaves, ffJ"" RuricoLr, 8c winemakers, who are sick infected, when there is no medicine for them then it becomes obvious, and no money is found to the medicinal drugs, to this water, as if to a strong Anchor they meet with a great deal of fanfare. .They are found in this Territory diftriclu Water: fulphuratce, equibus a little hungry Sour; pmerea, which ta- men pafllm neglesfte c inculee between A'M"' the fancietta fqualent; of any kind in the pre- They are and water u. approaching the rfarcotic spirit easily they suffocate, yes, dogs, birds, etc. raque animals at certain times to to drink, they kill with protein. Why do not letha: a force harm people the place is now closed by a wall is seen The water comes out easily Let it be turned into stones, every kind of field Tfburtinus is full, gpatet exlapi- they call because of the other origin of the nori have, Read, what wonderful force, whatever ciinic-, tfum was, when the time was infaxofam He will choose to convert the fubftantity; of at any time C A P U T OLD NEW LATIN. C A P U T II Bonkate the J[c[uarum, with which the City often enjoys.
Aifn ru. Water potable lium genera will be found around ca City, each in the com- munificent vi&u use Tybur- tin And in the first place is water, which They call AquamAureamjVulgofywW and from the mountain opposite the city, which Pe- they call it fchiatoro, in a deep valley ad for it leads, it traces the origin, e3 by the outpouring of waters, which; soon after not a little dilated to five about ten feet into the Aniene fe exo- he was spinning And this water, of all things Re&e of the nature of the fountains of the physicians in the opinion of the fans, the best fa- luberrimamomniumeffe, experience taught whatever Antonym %egius con- tra said, while she told him in every way Anie- nit in a persistent effort to keep the water strives. Indeed, today Ljm. fpreta aqviAnienis everywhere in the city way, all those who are to be confounded with vanity: ftudents, cardinals, princes, I craved a more delicate drink, the doctors confilias aqua-gilded; bottom&in in our college, there is no other way to drink useful, the snowmen use such water; not because with a thousand puffs than from the deep valley to the last He was brought down to the top of the mountain with the help of an animal. Nay, once upon a time the infamous public of KA%omans I find placuiffe, as the Apophtholic Camera moved by his goodness, I con- to lead, the balance of the spring of snow much deeper therefore impossible to conduct, nego- it will disturb him. I'm a fan the hydrometer I carry with me, that world raneo fuse defcripfi, none of all surrounded by the springs of Tyburtine Vrbis, lighter, clearer, cooler therefore, with great guile, I went away but I found it more agreeable to a foreigner. And this water has another, webs in it bleached to a smoky shine the faculty with which the movement of fBernardimts Cardinal Spada, a device for the factory Paper in the same place, to the papers to win the lost glory, he had attempted it; faneadvotum already resfucefliffet, the death of the snow in the interim will interrupt the business; because you were for alleviating infirmities, this water He was trying to trick the golden di- Andus Cardialis, hence the same physician James Albanus Gibbeius, poet gius, and at this time the laurel of Cxfarea given, the source of our knowledge is defcribed. Ode to James Gibbes Into the fountain of water. Let's sing the golden Aqaam, let's play Imitating the rich fountain, tBonte while Viclrix Aniena laughs pick The praiser will be ashamed of the water 'Barbara I will listen to the voices of the people. Tufculi luftratTater. Hinc noVatiA- therefore he applauds He redeemed them from the whites, Ociobreis Vitulofub ldus dyes: We are merely a people of inferiority Conca Lysi For what is the first thing that I have received? Is the Lake Nymphs more beautiful? of heat Sweet foalen, in the middle of ctftu Can you drink Mr Shadow? You neither Hetrufca? , nor me canenle anything repaired Villce What do you owe? Your large prince 'Worse Vtncit. But let's get on with the subject. The other is found in the waters Monafterium de MonteOli fate; quteejus goodness is effected, as even to physicians, to feverists, etc. that infirmities of molfta to drink to be used harmlessly. I am true to him he wants the fertile Aquarius of goodness place Paivola vetlefia A T H A N A S I I would have easily attributed the place to hydromctri by the experiment of my intrument. This same once in Vtlla Quintilius I've written to various improccdents, de- du&am fuiffe, canals, quorumruinx on this day and every day, through the mountains dynamite walkers pass by, open they will show you The true source of the old of old times, of old villages full of doors, at last from di&o- He discovered the Aquiduduum rum with rapids Ill. raU5 Lord Arcbintm annoicjo, as Andreas Bacciusxen. The third type of water is said to be leJia, Sc origin fuam fortiturin montt AfJIiojduobu. s about a thousand pafluum I am afraid, because of the various com- pertx note of goodness a guide, partly to Villamfua, partly in Tyburtina Vrbe, in the failings Hippolytus drew forth the water of the fountains
Cardinal d'EJle, in the year ijtfi. I KIRCHHI The fourth is the water of the river Anienis, Ayta the origin of which is already in the preceding AaiE"'8- let's write, so much abundance everywhere, so that not a small part of the city should be destroyed his, watery fire and underground, fun- data can be seen. From the water of this river great among the Tybunians about his good There is more controversy and controversy than this instead I tried to solve it in a timely manner. The case is jammed into the quadruple ad- the difference between the two waters for of course it is useful to boil it. Do&or Antoniw I said, Antiquarius Tyburtinus in li- by war, who will be inscribed, which instead of air and fire, he strives for water All the best to Anienk falu- berrimam, I will go to his good the least relevant wear True as the truth of this distrust let it be decided, some things about the nature of the waters here they are to be promised. C A P U T III I have lost him, of the perfect goodness of the Tyburtines. fijbu bmilttt. Onitas&perfccrioacurum should not be inferred from lameness, coldness, etc. which, with which they are imbued, Jnfucm- Iitatibus; with such qualities they may also be found in medicated waters; nor from the great waves between wash the rocks, and the precipices of the bundles illiiione fa&a; nor by exaggeration, group and rife with accidents, which is goodness they like to commend the waters; fed par tim from the terrible portions, which in- he trembled, with goodness and cunning, in part it is to be distinguished from water by lightness. Dan- turene aquajexdifferent minerals to the false, to whom nothing is clearer and it may be seen more clearly, with what end; no harm to the smoke below. They are also given water, as nitrofa; , with coldness, fed by which; endpericulofuminonpoffunt Neither cx of water collifione rocks and bring forth any commendation; for tametfi fimiles here cx vehe- by the agitation of the mind, by the terrors dino to any nonnihilexpurgan tur, yet the fempcr was given to me by nature from the metallic vein through which they run they retain the property of mcdulhts, no that can be attributed to multiple experi- a gathering of mentors in the other world We showed him underground. worried quc ilhe aqux, through ferns and gravels, W or a better bundle; fubftance; notawf'' break out, with no earthly dibusinfedx, for tricksters, hu- I could use my hand to cleave? they are and four, or at the first breath of heat immediately heat up, the same cold ex- polished, soon again to the natural cold be brought back; of whom they belong, natives the lightness of the springs coldness and lucidity tall Cryptalline, with no scent rife contaminated by vice. Of course or ipfe Tbilofopbns calculation fuo appro- beat of mifetiiis OLD NOV A dl Meteork Atque hujufmodi Progativam Water aurea, quamvul ZoJiuoruVn they call, fupri defcript, the group obtains. let us now see whether the water as Antonw %exiftimat, of all things becomes very cunning, Apona much ex- faster f"ie"L Putatitaque, and persistently protects E"i Aqux Anienis goodness, or from it head, which from so many catadupes, eat raclis, montiumfaxoforum bus delapfa, extantacolliioneaccon- He is miraculously cleansed by quaffing, without any the reli&o of the intervening corruption I'm dying The truth is easy to con- to the sky, I was a stream from the fountain Tybur uf- that with a continuous flow of homogenous there would be no excuse. Use the truth as an explanation When the river Anius died of sulphur, of iron, of vitriol, and mineral mixtures butos almost everywhere pity, it cannot be done, without than from collifion and various stirrings, which they run into the fcopulofo channel how cruelly he is cleansed, femper yet some of that mineral fahummiftura, etfiadfenfum vixper- acceptable, let him retain. And luculcnterpatet from the mgentitartaricopia, which the flu- the river abounds, so that Horti EJlenfr ca the nails of the hydragogue and of lead, as well teftacei, usually with tartar there; without even ipfa water in the ipfis canal
the bus sometimes turns into a rock it is broken, every kind of fragments of us He exhibits a mufue, brought from the garden of the emperor; which does not happen in neighboring springs. Yes who is the enemy marinaminnu the mind wanders to the sweet side to reduce fe poffe exotimet, it water irnto fanelaborebribro, to use i. e. he will take the ccrto (there perfuadeat. Eph emm that property of the fountain of water, as even if it is in a thousand drops cohobations, I speak utchymically, Geas femper, however, something from the native iuofaIeportionisreIinquat, donectota by the vanishing steam chao fuo refti U M L A T I u M. Zoi is protected And no one, as he thinks, Water of this kind to the last the purity of the mind, dicH multiple diftil- Ard by the repetition of the ktion, the poffe is reduced, fibiSi the element of rum, as if it were nature; prin-S apns contradicts, so also in no way human it to the degree of divine purity can be deduced, using many variables tiombus in various works of ours we are afraid But to the end Let us return to the argument. Even so, the water of Amenit ex frequented by the catadupers, through which various m places praxipitatur, colliiione, or into the smallest particles to inftar the smoke difficult, is purged with terrors, because, nevertheless, it almost always comes from the very smallest to the spirits of the mmerals it is dyed, not the power of its goodness as water, which; exipfa fountains with the said good qualities of the confederates ongme are drawn, fed already through: ftions let us explain some doubts. It is therefore measured first; Dida water Ameim tartare calculus inhu- Ai mamscorporibusgenerarefoleat? Himself. no way to use water every day Hitherto men have been working hard it becomes alive, at least it is not a quirk, fed some people's natural plexion to generate calculus first of all, by what you want to digest a copiofam of petrified humor He will give birth to living things that must be ascribed to him. Even if the tartar water abun- give, however, out of diffidence, conti- you interrupted the agitation-faaa, it happened uttartare put down the bodies, the purer water left Otherwise it will be made of water immovable, dicl: water it deserves I say, however, that most of the waters which they call drugs, nitrofs, vi- triolates and aluminum ftare quxtamenpotaj, so much that they should bring forth a cackle, that rather they should go to them already born in a human body, then crushing, then expelling, fuming let them be found with the help of my instrument: u6 c c therefore ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI therefore not water-fed, native fed people are prone to this disease produce these stones. Quctritur Secundb: Whether you fi- nim incUve canals, through which water from a long way nffmti the world fpatio, then Tybur, tumo- they are driving me unfaithful; goodness mb, much to the goodness of the rivers provide moderate heat to the leaves I am influent in it; If other rivers whose water: together with the channel banks originally fua homogeneous; by nature have been at the end of any other mifccllar hetero with the confluence of genes, she also the very least must be censured, which, however, only goes away, as in flu- mine from the remotest origin riaturj so as not even to the neighbor cium, because of the terrible parts, which al- it shines, and every one is dyed, the taut conftitution is not to be forgiven; he adds, that too much a: ftuofo, fub- linden with water, thinned by the sun, relidta craphoriaquxfubftantia evapo- rarely leaves but the Irish fole, as well to all the fimul, then ni- the evil nature of the ways, any of the mineral bodies contaminated, I will not approve the water to return Whence it is gathered, Aquidu&us, who Claudia, Martia, Anienis, and others the waters washed into Tyburtin's field, And from here they led Oma to that place; even if steeped in mountains, arched and arched the bus was excluded from all the radiation of the leaves they were oppressed; not, however, thereby deteriorating effete things, fed rather for the sake of continuity agitated by the flow of water, nor between la- the walls of the work of destruction, with no earthly mi- the envelope of the ftion flowing rapidly, no an intoxicating drink in the city, from %omanonmi with the Kftimos of the Scriptures, exhibuiffe;
what if they were still shriveled up, by warmed by the fire, and corrected then yours, both with lukewarm baths and so ferviiffe; which; do so and so I cried out with incredible fumptuum, %omam devectx not fuiffeht, be a vice in them something contrary to the passion of bodies they will find And it is clear that we diana's experiences in the water of the cifterns He teaches that even if you are immovable they are shut up in the vaults, in the darkness drink at the end of any harm, even fum- are used for profit I am made of skill well at the bottom of their gla- rea fluviatili pnus fubftrato, fetaceifque they should be carefully fortified with eculatores, hence for those trusting in the rains, filtered water, pure deodorized extra- these follies, at last into the air of men yields Qiueres tertib: What about the sources, five imiu the fountain of water becomes to be fanned I say, "nXt sources nature property those of the veins, cross, so- let the paths through which they flow be vitriol sulfur, aluminum, nitro, gypsum, anti- they had an abundance of water, too it will be dyed with that property, with which they are powerful the so-called minerals polluted nature; fubftantia, or by ter- Reftria places with false qualities: enriched, that is, by Achaten marbles or burn the earth, rit, that water that is the lightest of all, I pronounce it very cleverly. Ve- rum with the whole of this and the like The book, in the underworld how abundantly we have done it, the Reader we let go CHAPTER OLD NEW LATIUM. C A P U T IV White you five Sulpbureo Lacu, than Sulphataram ooamt, Field, commemo- in a most dignified manner. LatHi La- tnt Bath. s-lake. White no. St in the Tyburtine District Sulphur-bituminous I was about three miles from Tyburus millibuspaffuum, a Mana Road to Iarva one mile liaris intercapedinc diffus, which phureoodor, vu]go vo- cant because of the things in it trust in the abundance of morals The most important thing we have done is to be described. A lake about one mile in circumference whereupon he pours forth a sulphurous stream, ukro on both sides of Tybur's contenders a well-known passage, which the ancients Aibula to appear, or from the white color, which im- it was born, or as some would have it, from Albunca Stbylla Tyburtma, than this in Joco fubinde habitaffe, in prax. edentibus af- we struck or even from the white shore piled up with stones Here we use Lacws today so that the once famous mx hmx fuit, obThermarumhocin instead of Agrippa matter and magnificence, which Gefar Auguftus fummo fanatitis fua: with the benefit of the fa? piiis viutarc, and to use it for it was the device of this Ther- of the sea, to be used on this and every other day they claim it, &ample& to vanity peridonea, greenery, portico, with columns of ophite quemferpentine, they call it a stone supported by which; then he brought Avulfx are brought, and those ftantmus Impemor in Ecclcfie Latera- water lilies founded by fe: ornament ap- folded r lcatet, to use from ccerule color, bitumen virgultifqueconiitas, contains; quay m in any direction for the winds driven by blows; are focused, with joy even those who have not seen it with the most dignified wonder: Today I call Lefidia barcbette vocan- r, fil, jcatet committed to one so ht; Fifteen Infilas swimming. par- tim round, partly o strong figure. nor not with vines, sedges, and other herbs even the staff, when the adlit They went, pushed, and fell in turn fluc. uant. Quod fpetfaculum once Ex- cell Fcrdmando loanni S. R. I. principal dpide Lickenftein, this year, which haxfcnbo, Fnderico S. R. I. Comiti de Waiditein, fummishujuf- to the admirer of natural things the movement of these infulas oftendi cluation do a wonderful life Denpoflet, why are we curious about Pliny? I was in the Infuli of this kind of swimmers at the time he made no mention, when, however, exactly a much lighter mo- the nature of the mind; such a stranger he had drunk the spectacles; strange, I say
qu od hoc Iacu pnEtermiffo, Infulas na- taiites in Lacu Vadtmoms, mFaliscano Hctrurue Agro so neatly defcripfe- nt; however, to use the smoke from me Gennaexploratum was discovered in the lake which today il Lago di Sajfanella cant, not even one born today tis Infula let it appear to be swift; in the lake but this Albmieo defcribendoetfi neighbor, but none of the Iniiilarus just mentioned nt. Undc eg6. .varieseaderecon- loutus, do not argue Ptimt or lies tur, or confuse one with the other he cuts his hair I will try to fix a few reasons. And so he died. Inflate from various quifqmlhs Lake of floating origin let them smoke the time gradually increased in from water; ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI How inftrta na- touching feantttr? Original larmn nct so many
water: fat craflie fupcrficie skin when they contract, it happens, as a woman. of the plants with which the shores are crowded they are given, as well as by the blasts of the winds from here from then on, gradually into seeds mentur, rumcjue every year, then repullulafccn- with the growth of these women, as well as the folio- rum, ftirpium, powders, and other things small portions of earth, many years of careers, finally in to fill the body, with the ability to con- let them grow, and not even lightly bitumen, driven by the force of the winds let them begin to float from side to side. And Infuke the natives in the lakes in this meadow Sulphur-bituminous enafci he became acquainted with the fact that several the designs of the Infula of this kind at the time I was in the bodies of the Infula I found this origin in the lake. Ad- I do, however, those with time, where im- slightly excrevcrint, quif- weighted down by the weight of the quills, on the coast again accreted, and agglutinated by motion they will sink to firm ground at last be transformed And so with these great ones, already doubt us mouse That therefore TliniiM of the three Infula- the rums swimming in Lake Padimon, that they are not found today, remember none of them, however, in Lake Albuneo to a neighbor, he mentioned, id it was from the caufa that di infula: in LacuVadimotw then tem- swimming pores ix firma? they believe; in Lacn, on the other hand, Albuneus At the time of Tlinius, the so-called Infula were not yet natas fuiffe, pofteaeomodo, quo It was said that they were first born in Infula swimming evafiffe: and it may be done, as ha: developed over many years land dispute; firmx accretes from flu&uation they will take it, but in the Lake of Vadimons instead the changeable nature of the now generative, mo- I give the corrupting vivacity again who can argue more about this to decide the Work of the Underground World conflates, in which of the Infuls swimming, and their origin is extremely a&um. Let us return to the foundation. Eft Lactu here is such an infructable pro-, juus Aibund which is a short distance up to this point could have explored Where did you come from? three times more true than between commu- Lest the lake should be enumerated. That with Hippolytus Cardinal Eftenfi It was reported that he was driven by curiosity He set out to try the matter, for the first time push, with a faint effort, then with the big ones the prophecies with the prizes, the interior with the treasures confederation, by two powerful na- tators, urinalists, to be explored he married one of which, m ox and ten the palms of his hands are moistened with water, the refus of the plants that are clothed, because of the water fer- nattto to penetrate with the pen of death He did not learn the law; the other verocumfe Immiiiflet, five waters arftu ffuffoca- tus, five violent fluxes Jkrefluxus by reciprocity within the secret passages taken away from the caverns, certainly never appeared more. Certainly, this water The innermost boiling lake this is proved to us by experiment, pcr a lead vessel adinftar lagging, which; string: attached to two ten-foot the depth of rum, with a lame lid, which, however, through another string in can be opened deep, immifla, de-
thence again lame, when the edu&um fet, filled with boiling water we perish What experiment have you already done? We are following a pending lawsuit. Mi- The Medici are ranting about how this is instead of the Ufus of the Omani baths In ancient times he was able to eat, when yet the water of the lakes is at any end warm son, let it be found cold today; Wherefore, when they did not take the murder, the nature of the waters of the lake with the temperature of lCus r t ri i pcrjicic derived from colder streams of water light up the paradox. I actually ex- experience OLD NEW LATLUM. i0J by the experiment of propofit the reason of the doubt I ro soon intolerable boiling water lol- QspdiaqueAqua infuperficia matter, use cxperiment taught us first i-dcwirigtdiorfennaturdinomnibus mum fenties. Whence the ancient Rommi it happens in hot baths; vcn for you and the cold surrounding air I was a little agitated, to explain the heat of the fire He will not be able: which, as I have said, and in everything water from the surface of the lake tepidariaj fed by deeper channels les, where the waters have gone for the first time it was fanned, they are to be blamed for drifting; exposed to the open busthermiscello, and the true eife from the rushes into this one c. Be true a little each day in the deeper riide deep water, as fupradid urine found in the reservoirs ton happened, if you tried, then we will grow old. C A P U T V, I paint the whole of this Lake of Albune with the zepetrific he turned the earth around him See topc quickly I am a drunkard from Xtra paludofam, which is a lake Kf surrounds the earth from the Infuli born, I make the whole plain a certain one, that the Tyburtini they do not call, it is covered, and there is nothing else than some strips of skin, from this water; sulfur; , the jungles of terror; fub ftantia, hardened into a bundle. Narn before the times of Hippolytus Cardinalus Eftenfis you will make all these bundles into a large field rum, which is putrid by the stagnant water fqualorecontracted, to the detriment, ae- rife with vice, that from which he had contracted, flooded tur, so that you do not fruciuofa ha: c fuperficia contemporetota fterilefceret, Cardi- nal interests of the Republic; destiny pouring the milky waters into the stream, excavated at great expense in re sulphureo heavy from ipfo Lacu in? Lacu phureus, which XVW, authen 'Joma to and fro to bring go: Atclue this public favor fitrijnpt. Territory from water tyrants he lost whose water is not a little with them, fcabie, impetigine pfora with rabies and infirmities, while in it menfis artfi fe they wash, it is with a device; for sure he makes a flood of rotten morals, fanguinismaiTam purifies, so as many tx%omanls for similar diseases it they took care to be deported, but not with him fedtu, which in the ipfa spring the vein pre-ftat. On the banks of this river, which Albula once to have called the Scribes, of whom I had what is to be looked at, from ftipufis, herbs, par- Ififg. cruftatum fpe&atur; are found here. also white grains granafcriniolis and capfulif inferred to- They would like to sell most of them to foreigners, as well as a novelty, as well as to make fun of it to others, then to make the best of the fcemin more desirable; while they are drinking and then I will make a heel for it, not at the end of the adftantium rifu fe fumpfiife they vent I'm just going to eat it to Lapidicina -Lacw next pro- let's go I said to the lake with the grace of earthly fub- I gradually turned into a bundle, that from Tyburtina Vrbe, to which it is adjacent, with a corrupt voice, they call At- that the most famous of these is that fassifodina, from which I will not which, fed constructed modern we see; for neither %omt any ancient monuments and fabrics, five Fanatheatra Temple, Amphitheatre, Baths, etc. amount of rum, five today Ecclefias, poft Sanclum fetrum innumerable, Pontiff- with the palaces of other princes Cc fpedes saxophone tix tvbar dyed- wondering JWoHfjJ fd$ it- fcrtyth lou A T H A N A S I I
fpedt. es, it is found that from this stone it is not constructed; as a result let anyone see it, how he desires so much, and so innumerable the multitude of bundles In the mild years, only the extra-lady from here it is gone, as it has failed, as much as possible. femperin fummo fuo growth perfeverave he laughs, and would still perish; whose no other reason could be given for the matter, a perpetual and continuous stream of new ones femper, and of new bundles, folo Jlbunei Lacws benefit, fuccrefcentia; for when Lacus, as I lied to him, im- it becomes a menfar of the depth, fatutaper subterranean gaps and tunnels fufa will find the same fucceffu tem- pore, by force, with which he will pulverize, petrify, into a bundle convert Whose reiapertiilimumin he can speak a word, that in this and that way a day from latomis and stoners in the interior by penetrating bundles, intruments iron of all kinds, knives, harpoons, wedge, warns, shovel? hammered, iimi- and finding bundles of necefaria mints should be found; indeed another they did not come from rare migration, who while hu- by two kinds of damage or forgetfulness, K I R C H E R I vcl they leave lost, They fill the force with terrifying masses The water of the lake is white and watery the whole" is gathered up: the mother of the rains soaked; he penetrated the maffa, and so at the same time ca turned again into a fax. Strange it is that Pnrfeclus Lapidicins mi- hi I made a vine The title of Santtu Crucis is here written in rimim t. . drawn, found fuiffe. I ve-tmmidi- l t i tullium fa- I was saying, this is not pure nature x, mm ('like a cover of devotion with a cow's stool as much as they would like to carry) ibid poft tranfrnigrationcm with other terre- failed with five bundles and fragments ctum, finally together with the rest of the mate- ria into the bundle; which is not otherwise it may happen from similar things, and various; the fuppelleciilis notes, which you enter He said that the bundles were to be found, and I brought them. How indeed, and with what nature: pro- ceiiu ha: c become He desires nothing more than the art of this work. to allow the tumult, and that in the World- noftro Sukerraueo fat copiofe tra&a- when we saw, we sent Le&orus thither. Chapter VI DeMonte fciflb, costerifquerebus inTyhumnoAgto, with the most dignified trust. ; Ntercceteradmiranda, which, in Jgro 'Xyburtmo confpi- they are said to be a mountain of Scijfus, who ilfc&l time Dominicx Paflio- it is called crepuiffe. Double to this one he is angry; before through the valley of the Jmenis the road, which is one mile from the city near the old monastery of the Capuchins defkCt. it directs to the summit of the mountain. The other is through the village of the mountain, which Jf- they call the ancients, beginning with the por- that Angelica, who: leads to the olive grove. In the extreme corner of this mountain, in comes the fig tree, which shows the way to the interior of the mountain, from which border the fiffura escaped. fcre extends the distance to thirty paffus: of this so-called rrlbntis hiatus in a completely formidable abyss, scarcely explorable in any way, he tends. I fathoms I loved the string, and it could not be done, as the farm would be reached; but from the sound large, which was thrown into the stone buspcrcepi, huge ibidemfuter- I gathered the frog country to the side; obviously which, strangely enough, dinis, for a certain period of time flight VETllS NEW L A T I U M. i0 educitiir, Ornuseft, commonly known as Onzeffi; flew by circulation, cx eaparte, qua they enter the ftat ficls, but they are exalted tem voUm fiflura: partedenuo cgrediunturmaxi- measure ibidcmqits Irish at the same time renwietlt by my number, let no one wonder at fate how can he go through such a deep place? fly out of the gap to emerge. Au- and by dividing it from the mountain you must never depart from this abyss, fed in the Irish season whether to remain, and leave some who penetrated the gap a little deeper passing there wrapped in bundles some of the women who died refer turetia from the Tyburtine Archive, where
In the year of Tmjudgi, it does not conftat, ludxos this crossing the mountain on Friday fnjia; . at the profcdur fairs, from SanBi Gre- to the citizens of Gori, the zeal of the two gods, Judtos like Christ's crucifixors, bound by ma- with them the foot ox into this abyff the projects were fuiffe; born between SonSliGregoridnos, today still mentioned in the Archives it goes A formidable gap, and the horror of the fimul causing vertigo. I love when and from the projection of huge stones while it was allowed to collect, I think the water to suffocate at the bottom, who at the foot of the mountain, before the Anientm fpe&at, copiously fcaturiunt, lucu- they have a slow teftimony; that Magiftratus Ty burtinus, or by ho- I am already condemned to death then, even prophesied with a considerable amount of money? force given works conducf um, by a string fella intru&am immiffum, not easy at the end of the public good rarely poffet filfr, is worthy of high confidence, frovmiM, that in the Tyburtine Territory use nis great manna? Refined turpentine? the supply is collected; what a thing to see with my own eyes hired by a man of art and ways expertly, infilvam, like a woolly man of Monti fubjacet, I asked, where is the road? many trees from which manna. ftyrax refined turpentine is collected, fpe- He was shocked. The tree from which manna use &fty rttof, rcJi' I need you I will return. although the same tree in several and Latium, and the rest of these places let him come, yet in this valley of the mountain diftrictu, manna? , ftyracis, Tcre- Binthina? is found wild. Modusman- Mmdi: July, and almost to the io of Augustus, in which at the time fol a? ftuantiffimus fuas strength he brings out the most, of the neighboring cafes incok- to the fylva, where the great Or- they know our abundance of coffee, feconfe- they run, the bark of the trees the form of a cross, with a fummo head at the beginning when they are done, what I do is liquid honey inftar by the heat of the leaves drawn into the fcutella candle wrapped around the tree being, there more leafy aquifua fubftantia collected, collected nori pharmacopeorum which is carried away by the profit of the victims. It is of a sweet nature, and pores efficacy? , itautmanna? , which originates in Calabria, not at all let him yield, nay, by many of the Doctors himself be preferred; from natives for companionship the tico is smoked, fed with water it is necessary to refrain from them, however berint is already such a powerful medicine They have it ready, so that none of them, which? H. ct3-a. UKa. , ihe purgantia, a Medicis let him give way Another tree, exquaftyraxelicitur, MaWne lia cortex in the same way as Orni, ad to collect the phtyracus liquid, it is cut A wood of the most agreeable fragrance cf. , whence, I was sometimes a hearth in the fire fuel is added, the most gratifying pro- the fragrance permeates the whole house pours; although there are few who know tia of this tree have cx natives ant: those who know the truth, instead of the secret on account of the light which they acquired thence, they hold with a much higher price than man- let them not wish to divide, that which is in nothing ItalU instead as much as hadenus it was permitted to find out if it came from another source; from Cbio and Arabia to Europe. Tcrtio. A T H A N A S I I The third brings forth Refina from Teres- binthis, five larches, of which a huge in di&o montecopiaeft, effudanteirn The tree is huge and from the first ma- with trees of greatness: the bark is in the same way as it is made in the orns in the beginning they elicit The tree is not ornamented it is akin to the snow ftar veficaria: , quodftaphylodendrum they call the Botanists, conftet, granifque the size of the piforum is reported by Orno TtnUn- be distinguished. The liquid would then become moldy fiZJlx in Mcdicina obtains ufum, wounds ui&dtr. of any kind is wonderfully appropriate whether whence he who knows the power of the tree runt, from recent Terebinth ftoloni- bus sticks for walking they would like to prepare, fiforfanautveprium and of the needles, or to and with the illifion of fa&a, may the pious cafu recover their wounds, soon K I R C H E R I I pressed the bark of the stick against the wound
to, extemporaneous medical within a short period of time they are called fans. It is found in the unaccelerated rock lo- cis Napellus arborefcens tantse vim-}ff""t slowly, so that even the shadow having done so, they soon lethargic the beloved interi-momeja Water March Sonitdt with that mat. Whose pettiferous play before the com- nuario they have experienced death for many years two paftores, quifubarborishujuf- ways of extinction call me to be said, in what kind of death is the last this day in lococlaus rent, and examined the corpses, when no cousin of a more violent death it would appear, finally, one of them ca: expert in ability, trusting the tree, Napelluminit came, and so on fub ipfa with the vapor of that poisoned tree He brought in the sleeping extmcios fuifle. C A P U T VII De zAcjuteduBibus Tjburtinu. %ancifcus Martius Hijioriie TyburtinaScritor, among other things W2. memoranda, mention He also makes Aqupedus from the tfomans of the extru&orum, to the Water March from FonteTiconioma wanderers; of the goodness of whose water, and property, so writes Pliny c. Clariftma of all aquitas intotoorbe the coldness of the palm of the hand I went to March among the rest of God's gifts Attributed there. It was once called Aufeja, the source of Piconia. He rises in the last mountains of the Pelignos: he crosses Marfos, from Lake Fucinum, Rome not doubting: moxfpecu merfa in Ty- burtina fe aperit M. paffuum for- bring nothing to Jlruclis. The first is her in Vrbetn. lead aufpicatus eji An- cus Martius, mime from pojlea Q. March (ex in pratura. Rurfusqv. e reflected M. Agrippa. Ouan- and then Vtrgo taclu, let him only prejudge March bauflu Perhaps, indeed, from various things human vicifStudine, fucceflu of time, different lost it, M. Aurelius Im- executor Philophophus, ceflbranno Salutis noftra: , added in the new Antoninian fountain, excavated tif the mountains, enormous costs his return to this and that day, about Arfoli, formerly the town of Carfeolos, vegitia fpe&antur, ideft, wells pro- fundiflimi, who instead of fpiraculorura with the waters of the Submontane ban Even this fact is epigraphed read fupraportamTaurina, five St. Lawrence: IMP. CAESAR M. AURELIUS Antoninus PIUS HAPPY Aug. PARTH. MA% BRIT THE PONTIFEX MAXIMUS MARKS WATER VARIOUS OLD NEW LATIN. VARIOUS KASIBVS PREVENTED PVRGATO FOUNTAIN, CUT, AND PERFORATED MON- TIBVS. THE RESTITVTA FORM, ADQVISITO ALSO ON THE NEW ANTONIAN BRIDGE. INTO THE SACRED VERBEM PERDVCEN DAM He took care of it.
This Water March through the Territory She was brought to Tybnartinum, and then to the Villas to be irrigated, as well as for human consumption very cunning, as in the village we are oftened by the registration of rum; whose the ruins partly corrupted, partly intact As the Sicilians passed by, among the Tyburus, Cafetellum S. "Anveli 8c Empulum oppi- while they are already destroyed, to use ex the map will appear; where& next to the bridge first met by Tyburus, Aqu. Tdudtus at the equilibrium of the waters while the whole mountain is seen excavated, and the AquaMartia drifted through. And some think, the family of the Martians here somewhere there was a beautiful thing; For Franciscan Martius marble mo- he delivers the clue found to the fuiffe, no at a distance from the village commonly known as San Polo it is said, in which this inscription is read: T. Marcius III. FETAL PRIESTS. LEG. CEM PROVINCE ACAI. C A. . THE SENATE AED CVR is available. CVRATORI VLM LATIN LEG. AVG. THREE SKULLS. And the other in the house of Charles Ciaccus, a citizen of Captain Tiburtini. of this trend: HERE IS THE AMJHION EREPTVS PRIMAJUVENTA SEVERAL TERDENOS Years of time passed HEVS IMMATVRA DEATH It's ready for you C. MARCIVUS PAVLVS C. I was born with the greatest passion. Succeeds M, Opt to Aurclio the Emperor, in the Empire, Commodus, xciWmus his son, in the year Chriftii8z. Habebathic to me as the most familiar Libertus In the name of Tatron, which was a town he had going to Santli Gregory the town on the right, on the mountain village, where today the village of Peramatna familue della Croce, from the ipfi ruins of VtlU
Fatroniana was built than Fulvius Villa Pa- Cardolus will describe in these words: fytftr- no matter what then ejj. ngjir first remembered from the city of mil- liario near Yiam, isr the remains of Aquddu- tlus Amcncm between, y neighboring mon- tcs, the tomb of Patronus, whom L. Commodus Antoninus Aug. freed (yfamiliarem fuijfe, tnarmor t? numif- mata, when the of the Emperor had no efftgie far. from which it is easy to guess, the Patron Saint hmfuijfe, who is dead from the cross who was injured by the ruins, i. e. in the edition, ammo, he is conjpicualnfitur on the hill of Falubrique, isr cum totofundo, boc eft, ommbts circd fylvis horts. Vineyards, strawberries, olive trees queinfrdpratis, arVis, Crucix fami- the case is called by name. They stayed in Frbe Tyburtina pore ImrscriiAlexandriSeVeri poft Sce- the learned emperor Heliogabalus in the year of Christ, two of the noblest vi- ri, Caius Cefonius, L. Cefonius nani; who and their greatness and power they have been hares, they teach the inscriptions, in frequent tenor: Dd C. Cx- iftia M A T H A N A S I I KIKCHERf C. Carfonio. C. F. Quir. Macro Ru- to finish To be conflated members Augustus Count Imp. Severus Alexander Aug. Why. R. P. La- I am snowing II. Procof. prove Africa Why? Water Mini. Leg. Aug. pr. pr. German Why? Alvei Tiber. why R. P. Teanenf. leg. Aug. pr. pr. prove Achais leg. leg. VII. Claude why R. P. They touch Leg. prove Afrse pr. leg. Prov. Bamc. . tribe pl. Qujeftori prov. Narbonne tribe Leg. I. Adjutric Given the gifts of the military aDivoMarcd II. Man capital To the most sweet and incomparable father Cajphonius son of Lucillus You are sheltered. Next follows the other, which shows the offices, is made to use L. Cafonius. C. Phil. Quirina light game Skinny Rufinianus Cof. Brother Ar- you are strong Prof. Vrb. ele&us to be known Vice Cxfaris Knowledges. procof. prove Africa. XX. Man cx Senate With help R. P. Curanda? . Curator of waters, Minicix. Why? of the channel of the Tiber, and of the sewers. The city ambassador prove Africa; at the same time. turn Procon full curator R. P. of the Tufculans curator R. P. Suefta our Candidate candidate Quarttor Kan- learned Ele&us into the Patrician family xx Vir. Stlitis judkandis. C A P U T OLD NEW LATIUM, C A P u T VIII, Te Saniis Tyhurtinueccleftuhodihn Tvburtina Urbcjpectantur, 'J Uitanno Chrifti uti Pe- l trus reports about Katahbus. topic by Decius Caffaris Philippi in the empire of fucceffer, we The first Virgin, by name, Vttorta, Christ imbued with the Phthian religion, nor Eu- fWK. fanguine of the noblest Ju venis, nu- lost to the children This is where from the Angel tell me how good virginity would be Made by God, I immediately smelled it voto Cbnfto fponfo fuo, to all who the bus floats between the good and the poor ftributes, confecraviffe is brought Eugene that scornful Jealousy: stricken with fury, that is as if imbued with Christian faith He brought him to the emperor; Whence how first in Vtlhan Tiburtina love data, to be changed lpe: of religion, hunger he would be tortured, he would be fed with greed; for from another place it is not only ipfi profifum, fed and in a wonderful way she was freed, as it is done: Dncoin. He had appeared at that time in? agL J&ro Tyburtino not just animals, fed men, and whatever it was a devouring, virulent breath I was poisoned, or if I smoked the air, great who would believe in the poffc, than to cutiofitati fiw in the unarmed Bargmis fight fpe- They would make a fateful fate, so Biduano which I fasted, and burned with fire God with the first prayers, on that day I lost my son to the dragon cijufht, ubiftabulating Draconemin In the name of I E S V condkoris ccdere, txTiburtino Agro he began to go away; beasts, hearing the Virgin i"cmm pnecepto, ftatim velociffimo curfu, in- three times hidden, carrying silver, nuf. which will never be alive again. I live by this miracle, embracing Christ's faith
which horse he bore: Viihrta but in the dragon's cave, in the magic a dwelling house, with nine He was infected with mortal wounds. common this and the appropriate occasion rata V&oria virgo, then to Iberandos a so much pefte Ttburtinos, then to eofdem from the blinding darkness of race to the truth to be converted to the Christian faith therefore do not trust in the goodness of the Lord nonfideiarmisinftrutfa, fe, CiChnfto Nornen would they like to give, Territory, oc- with the dragon, freed from such a calamity He promises to be ready: when he receives it, nelte propofito, the same with To conceive a struggle with the dragon; no some untrustworthy effect for one week Virguncuhs dwelt fervently for God at last there he expanded the Neophytes by connbution he built the Monafterium where with sixty-three virgins He killed his life with indignant enthusiasm True, he was once again tricked by Daanon Eugenwjhm adDea: VesU while he did not fail to compel that exe- evil crab with great passion he will reject thee and his desire, am long ago the crown of Tartary, of the head by condemnation, obtained, De- embankments He dwelt, at the same time, in ZeooM, Field Tiburtmo famous llkMo- R-'gina- This is the Queen of the Talmyrenes, of whom I am talking an ample mention, in ems We made a registration, which Barontm mrtrucrione with fam, in faith Omftt pie fanfte defun- ctam fcnbir. See, where: about wondering in Zenobta, queen of natural endowments; likewise of the unheard-of Triumph, which ab Emperor Aureltan entered the city It was a ducla, we delivered it to the same village. Dd happened ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Sihyttini Why books? prahibhi Literally Aureliatus ai Stntitii It happened at the same time in the smoke The famous triumph of Zenobian, as Au- Relianm Imperator, ex rcbelli one Mar- of the Comans, a great deal of against ipfos infaturing solicitude, from I am alive to the varied and uncertain outcome of events he would be tormented by smoke; thence to the Senate A Roman epiphtola, on the confluency In the Sibylline Codex, about the war with He gave the Marcomannis an entrance. It had been for already some time before, of the Sibyllines Libroru infpe&io, because of the great, which I stayed; from j; s they sheltered the light of truth, and hence for mfigneomanorumtivMma. d Cbrifti credit increase then, forbidden; how indeed desiring Aureltan so much, to the Senate The Roman writes: I marvel at you, Tatres Confcripti, tandii about the afcrendis Stbyllini doubting the books, hence why in Chriftia our Ecclefia, not in the Temple of the Gods you will be glad of all. Act therefore, isr cafii- nuns of Tontificum, ceremonies and feasts bmjfCPate frinciptm public neceftate working hard The books are written: what kind of if they were to be eaten, they should be celebrated. Ouemltbet fumptum, cujwslibet gentis I like animals, I don't want to eat them, I feed them willingly I offer for I will not be unrighteous to God Vantibm "to paint. So with the elders among us The war ended soon after the war was taken. If qutd ift fumptuum, given adprteftdem ctrarii lit- of the tenth juft. Efipfcetered Veftrx au- the public ark of thority, how much more I find as much as I want. It was finally in the year Cbrifti AD Imperiale Solium eve&us Conftantinm Mavnus, years after Aurelianus, who luminefiediimbutus, and baptif washed by Sjlvefiro, incredulous bilious with Chriftiana; Religion he applied faith to promote the business; the first of the Emperors, who everywhere lo- both of which then elsewhere, with new the Divine worship of the Church led, so that there is no room that does not Con- ftantinianx of piety and religion, or and Ecclesiastical di- he would demonstrate his faults. All in too it was so that, where anything could be discovered memorable, five from Cbrifiianis prsfti- then five Martyrum Cbrisli fanguine famous, and those places especially in which anything worth noting about Sandto- rum Martyrum gefta contigiflet, ere- they were celebrated in the clion of the Ecclesias. Which; use what they know so also to them I did not dare to stay longer, strongly with this fuse in Hiftoria noftra We brought Eufiacbio-Mariana. Of this Religiofiflim Emperor
example made by Tiburtini, whom, when Lawrence the Martyr in the Summer Field built a magnificent temple they took him, and he went to the Temple of Her which was once dedicated to DiVi Laurentius the temple of the martyr, they turned the gate, tefte Ferd. Ughel- lio Sacrx Italix Authore, while de Epif- he acts with the troops of the Tiburtines, who didta heretofore He confirms with the words: Caterum Hercules. The temple, the largest part of it, in the time of the Great Emperor itt The goodness of the Divine Lawrence in the Christian rite in Ecclefta Catbedral dicfttiw efl. The ancient foundation of this pul- chre defcribit Ill. musAnnibaI deGraflis, Bishop of Faventinus in these words, as Ledorqualisantiqua that St. Lawrence Ecclefia had been, he would have known. Ecclejiaipfa efl anthiuamatnta, in no- Difcrifih r n ri J Ytttrtt bili, isr beautiful form conjtriict, decentt s. height? isr latitudinc proportioned; jyub'" it has three large ndPes, the middle cteterk greater; he drank the pdpiment from the tables vermiculated marbles, Ve- tttftum, however, isr due to old age in plu- nbm locis dePaftatum, isr Verfm Attare mafm, in medta naPi is a wooden floor covered twenty two years later large square windows work wide rite of passage I'm on the phone say the ship is steered, isr futentur, that there are wooden boards, chalk tiles, fubpojitts fubfiBum, fimtltter "Pettjium, i? no at the end of some part of the story: other verbs they are cooperating with fornicating work, excruftau yet infomiabm, denigrating; pa- rietes isr columnce ipftus Ecclejiccfunt ubi- that Varii-s Sanclorum imagimbm, Paritfque myftertis A T I U M, for the promotion of divine worship with care and solicitude, the old In the temple, new and magnificent, in the year i? he built the same in Joco; fa- cells, which marble, which paintings undecorated lens; two main they obtain a cipflemloc; first properly Dedicated to Sanclo Lawrence, another fub in the name of the Image of the Savior, which a Santlo Luca Euangflifta runt, on the of Gregorio IX, Pope Max. from the Count's family in Dida honor? it was dedicated, as it is woven registration, which: is made: OLD U NEW tnyfteriis isr hiftoriis ancient isr modernia Teftamenti pile, fed walls ipfi, iy they are also everywhere excrutated, isr dentrate he drinks two large sports; ma- Ior babet in front of the two-roofed portico a bus supported by marble columns, ta- covered with small flowers; drink mamm the image below from the outer part of the San- cliftmi Saviour's blackened ftmiUter, isr deVaftatam, isr eft marble cornices reis decently adorned, isr oftio decent, that it is decently closed, protected; to the right ipfius portcz extatfons stone decent, fu- by a marble filter decentipofiitts, for blessed water another door reflects the public the plains of the city, he was drinking in front of him ipfam portico, isrper it through several the dus of the stones afcendttur to Ecclefia; who it is finely decorated with marble cornices, isr babet image defuper deVaftata isr excruftatam, which cannot be found; Ofttum is somewhat of a rimolof, fed well it is closed, with the portx ipfie they drink fpor- the plates of the waxen arms. From this record it is clear, Tiburtines from the ruins of the Temple of Hercules inftauraffe Ecclefia SanElo Laurentio Consecrated to the martyr, fub the form of Eccle- fiis from Conilantino thousands; for the building of the Temple of Hercules lei was very different from the Christian Temples of the Phthians; for how much from defcri- It was a futility of the mentioned ption The temple of Hercules perished on every side I will clothe him in the form of a portico, in which it varies; were also inferred the bytations of those who they were, and supported by the mighty; and it was from Ytlla Macenatis, in which every year Jujuftus rufticabatur, pcr Ytam Vale- ria, a walk to the Temple each way on every side and on every side of the hair column fuffult, as from fuperfti- it appears from these still rapids, as it appears here.
The old temple was taken from the Cbriftians SanBo, dedicated to Lawrence, with the fall; effet proxirnum, and old age he would scarcely be more curious; Julius S. R. E. Cardinal pma Tiburtinus Eptcopus Apborofacum was born to his sons Dd x Crypt Keeper I was born in memory. This in the Chapel of Sal vatoris nofirivf- fix Luca's portrait, the generation so indebted, in the same Corpus B. Qujrini 1atur, cujtts prater ccetera memory cleaved in stone, grafted d on the right Here, however, the women it's wrong while the ejufidem of that d Gregory IX was made to exist in the year d S. Deipare Virginis partn M. Xllllal. July. It was under the altar of the great Ecclefis marble shell, which Car- in the presence of all the clergy, ccetera: of the Tiburtine nobility; when discovered, there were various diyer- the forum of San&orum Leipfana in the eyes and the body of St. Celery, in another Iiquor Sanguinis. Lawrence the Martyr; In other Relics; Forty Saints Martyrs San&orum %omuli dc %edemp'u, S". Generofi the Martyr, and several others which; seen at Docriffim Mi- Chael Luftinian Abbot, in fua Tiburtime Vrbis registration. Sancli, indeed, who properly originated fuam fumpferunt in Tiburtina Vrbe t were, First S. Getulius, S. "Sym- of whom Marty- Imc. go SjI- vacoris, t St. Luke depiSa Rjlifjtti-e SS. fab found out ta. ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI SanBi Ti. bmcortnn lllup-es explain nobility i n iN a b I The martyrdom of Lullius is celebrated. see which: dc their paffion in Vdla Airtani we brought Secondly his December of which a little before. TertiojS. Scverianus the Monk S. Se- No- summer QmnbSimplicius Pope, aiius feftum is celebrated on the 2nd of March, which lock in the smoke of the various seasons tatefan&ifhmc governed, Tyburti- for he built the Ecclefia of St whose geftis see Tlatina, and elsewhere. Fifth, St. Majorius Martyr, crudely It is said by Genfe- I call the Tyrant of the Vanials; His body feftumcelebraturifi Oclobris Sixth, S. Lobannes Pope IX, from the order of S. Be- about whose life see the writers Ec- clefiaftics Seventh, St. Generofws Mar- tyr, Quirinus Sacerdos. And these are those who are proud and generous let the glory of Tybur decorate the country run They were not absent from the ancient noble the Roman tate, the men of the geftas celebrated by multitudes At first they think Tyburtini, Caius Gepharem Caligula fuifle Xjweoriundum, no matter what more truly, he was born of Antius; who- what happens if it is Tyburtine, it is not that they will glory in his rise, when in- I was the country of three emperors, And control over all vices and their kind, nor in- having contaminated his hearing with inhumanity, I of which read more in his Villa chlorine Moreover, L. Cofiinius, a native of Tybure, Ctcero in the Oration for Salbus reports, ex of the family of the Copponians, tefte Fulvius Vrfino Quintius Vanis Tyburtinus, ge- ner Augufli, of which see more came to his town. Caius Turpitius Tyburtinus cof. Rom. whose mention nor did we make mVtlla Twpitiana. No- merit among fuos, Titus I C. Titus ex Copponiorum famdia, from which but Caius Turpitius sent III. and also prints. tiumatius Tlancus Cof. Rom. de quo Horace oie, Vidc quxdeeo We delivered him into his Vdla. Caius 'Popdius Cof. Rom. of each roles responsibilities see OtherMa- Ortbograbia infuses news. Varius is Tucca, a poet: the most famous, coxtanei Virgdius Horatius, Augtufi Domeftici, of which mVdla Miecena- you And hxc fufficiantde men Illuftri- a bus who trusted more to those who were ready starches let him come to the aforementioned Eru- Ditiffim Abbat Micbaelemlusli nian, in fuo de Epifcopis Gubernatori- bus Tyburtinis Traclatu. Ecclefia S. "Laurentius today, use we said it was from Emin"10: lulio S. R. E. The cardinal was built from the foundations together with the great seminary of clerics, use fertile marble records busincifrcent:
Julius Cariinal'is%oma Meiiolancnfis Bishop Tyburtinus S. Laurenitis Safilicarn's injuries of the time fatifcent Annophalus M. TC. Above the gate of the seminary is read this inscription. Julius Cariinal Qfyma He erected the seminary of Tyburton and he tied the ropes with ropes. AnnoSal. MDC He lived Cardinal Santa Cruz faster OLD NOV Here the cardinal lived a great life with integrity example, piety on the same day and hour that he was born sixty o&o years old bens, fepultus in Ecclefia DiviGi- roli 'Borromtei ad Curfum. In the same year, in the paftoral curx Marcellus S. R. E. Cardinal SanEiacrucius virtuos J as is clear from the following cpjgraph Vt honorificentiiis SanEiorum let them know EtdecentittsfacraparamentaferVentur J. raised this to the rescue of sinkings isr omaYtt Marcellus Cardinalis Santacrucius Romanus Bishop Tiburtine In the year LVIL U M L A T I u M. U5 mnium model, which in adorning Ecclefia St. let's work as liberally as possible he brought me, the new Sacrarium, to the San&ors should be properly stored in it He built the remains at great expense,
So that we may return to the city, Are they running today in those parishes? confraternities, as they call them; three Xeno- but almost every day of Religions Monafteria In it was also introduced in Vrhem Tyburtinam Societas I E S U, ubiReligio nova iS. IgnatioinSkaia. primbfuitapprobataafWo III fum- my Pontiff, in the same place, who On the day of la {occa is said, and there is a palace Pontificium a fio II Pontifice in ulti- in the corner of the city, at the gate The cross was built. Meanwhile SanBus gnatiw, during the moment's business was stirred up, when he lived in the fire pits Ecclefiola outside the city at the gate of Ro- mana fida, which; a few years ago certain of the cells were demolished. They also hold today Cocconeni, noble citizens yburtini had a room in the house, they would be seen in Ephele. where St. Ignatius loved to dwell, when break off negotiations with Pontiff Tybur sing, it was traded, that in great with veneration of the year in memory San&i hold It was finally here approved by Paul III of the Society inftititutum, there fucceflu of time founded a college, and buta Ecclfia, in honor of SS. Sym- phorofe, Getulii, the feptcm of his sons, a Cardinale Contarello was erected in in which Remains? Didorum San&o- the martyrs are brought together. More this Joke about the government and control of the city they were repeating what was to be said; true when the most extensive book about him the fupracited Michael Luftmianus did Abbot, thinking fume fume fupervacaneum to describe them here again, preferably with those beyond the limits of my innermost being P A R S you say ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI P A R S III, Of the region of the Sabines C A P U T I Do you love Sabina? %egionis fingularumtjue ejtu party registration between the river Aniene, and several rivers; of the above. What the common Veronese say is rum flour, I collect them not mine Hercules, whom Oftca which language they also used pelted by a fuiffe, but the Greeks Hercules Feftus teaches the poet Varro of the gods. whom Sangualcm corruptly dixiffeex Sanguala AVa, who had Sanco tur, Plinyts reports. But now they are complicated Omitting the opinions of the authors, already to the division of the region of the Sabines let's move on I don't like this real division. nus, what is the origin of the Sabines among I find the authors controversial, as to whom you write, you hardly fail. Strabo an- the boundaries of the region of Guftosvalde to extend for a thousand feet, a Tiberius and Nomento in the small town of Vejli we both. But Dionysius III. noftfw xgji clyahlw broad strong He says that the inhabitants of the region, as Sabino- from the old it becomes di- vifa, zLatto, because yet to perfection historical knowledge of ancient Latium It seemed that it was difficult to hire a mum I will stop at Latios, to be joined I married Therefore the region of Sabmor aLatto of almost all the ancient Scriptures she was rich in teftimonies; whose inhabitants
The origin of rum is variously told. Who- I will give it from Sabo Lacedemonio, the first day Duke of Rome, her Greek origin: they make snow; Others, utiL; i'w, interbar- they put the origins of the baras peoples a number of very complicated questions by opinion, more truly by Sabo the Lacedaemonian Sattnos diftos fuiffe, I believe, autho- rite of the movement of Silius Italici, whose words are VIII. when the behavior of the Sabbaths will write Vcrtice plumes, and leYttegmine of the cross Jbant, isrUti, part of Sancum Voce ca- they didn't know The author of the nation, part of the laud they were rebuking Know yours, I am Jepatrius imts Dixifti great peoples and the Sabines. Where known, Sanctum Sabinus pro- the first deity femper at Eofdem fumma veneration fuiffe worship, whom Dionysius msix ov Tb)[u. ouot 'Za. yx. ov ncthim- of which see Varro in the Latin language l. LiYtumfompejumFeftumTli- who withholds the principality? derent: Anguftaautem, Amplauti gu. faced with the truth of the matter let us call them snow; that region of the Sabines, but this I want to detefminare ptam. We ver6 division of the better Geographers made, that properly Sabine Kes, io- we say, which; Anieni Tiber River roads, and not eaiinisNurftnifque mon- with these cin&a is concluded. Of whose op- K'gji "IUmo" bus, as well as the current time of flourishing bus, he tells us what to do, from the neighborhood the bus will start from the town. C A P U T
OLD NEW LATIUM. I went C A P U T II T)t Vrhihm VeterihmS3. bihorum, moiemis jrafaMijAaf inferred. i Ppida nbnnulk qua: jure
nature: I flew by the river! division boundaries 'bent, no less diffi- they come to worship; with some eo- rum, with Sabina fint, Latium, however they have been enumerated, which I did not know from their fubaclion by the Omanis it touches; Undenative Region rights cumjurcDomitorumtranfitin Regio- ncm Dominator's own, mxtail- ludVirgiliil VII: Behold, the priest of the Sabines about fkngmne big Claufus, acting as judge, was great infiltrating the train Claudia now dquodijfunditurtsrtri- bus going
Ter Latium, given in part if possible Roma Sabini A huge band of Amiterna, and the priests QuiriteSj Ereti manusomnis, oliViferaque Mu- Tufta: Oui Ndmentum ttrbem, qui rofed the countryside of Velini Those who will drink the Tiber and the Fabari; whom the cold causes NurfiaHortiria: Clafjes. Some of these cities: ni facb-e, among the cities of Latium: they were, as they were He was transferred to the region of the Sabines by TortamSalaria, Bridge, three fcre thousands paflimm a columnamil- I am afraid of lies; in which the first bridge They run the most politicized registers: , a Narfete, who had already destroyed him took care of, which IlI. m"Lord loannes Frederick S. R. I. Count Waldftejm, by R Father Sixtus Horrerum t a man of less learning than If I were to be of any religion, I would be cut off there He took care of it. However, this with a huge population of waste met, which they draw here and there, little here a file with the menu of the Sun exponent while I was crying. On the right side of the bridge, near Iiteres exiles IMPERANTE D. N. PIISSIMO AND TRIVMPHALI Avrvc-r. BERTATE VRBIS AC TOTI VS ITALll RF sIT vtI. rAvfPVIIToiAE"Mj VAM QVONDAMFVERAT, RENO The other is on the left side of the bridge. Epigram. TOHMMT"1 IS THE DIRECT PATH OF THE BRIDGE, ATQUE INTERRVPTVM CONTINVATVR itib CALCAMVS RAPiDAS S VBJECTI G VRGITI VNn iATiGnRviN, SOUNDING avsvscIve sings' "A. VR FACILES PER GAVDIA STR A ovtritF"; qvcAYc HIC D OnilTnv R, AS GOTHORVM SVBDERE MENTES, HERE TEACHES FLVMINA FERRE Ee tfe ATHANASIUS KIRCHE, RI Vokterranus says of Narfete fic: Narfcs Eunuchs Juftiniani Trincipis My room, 'Btblwpola priiis, de- hence, because of the spirit of Yirtutum, the patrician nore eVe&us, a man of religion and piety rich, so as to offer many prayers before God he would do as he did against his enemies. Igituris in the place of Belifarius Duke in Italy
I was ten years fighting with the winds Live, who at last came to the aid of ten thousands V E T U S NOVllM L A T I U M. with the Lombards Viilo's pleasure, then alw of them %ege TEI A, qttifibi Lotharius Zsr Bucellum from the Franciscans, in Apulkfuperato, hello Gotbico end impofutt year when Theodoric entered Italy rat: qooque cities cunilis qtueaCo- they were held in Piceno, and having received them, bem Vicior and there he applied to repairing the fakes, which Eftsuna was a bridge here. at last so many you will be proud, and you will not be jealous rarepotuit siomanus avi- rites: tyrannic: administration at Luftmian ejufcjue's wife, suit He received all the insults from them. The Eunuch loves to drink and drink rcdirect; he was angry, Duke, inquiLtale penfum, and such an order tclam, then cannot be easily extricated. And so from Pan- nonia evokes the Lombards, long ago desiring to walk the way ipfe pau- he exceflit the omx, whose corpse loculoplumbco Conftantinople then it is To this bridge Salarius, re- the most famous glory of the Geftars, in and Manlius the leader of the Gauls giant in size, one from the slaughter of the Omanis, and the torture by the neck of the accused the victor returning his hands, because of the fact that he had given Torquatis, together with the name you were lusting after Manlius Torquatus deserved it. common we discovered various places and then approached Fanana, then Facra Ecclefiaftica fpectancy. What: all things, not to be longer in we are in their registration, iti Topo- graph the fchema to be trusted we were But already further back let us proceed. Intcr Vrbes, first with merit locum poffident Fidenx, fnvcu Tio- nyjio, l{ome proxima, utpote quse hon nili quinquemilbuspaffuumab it is rich, the colony of the Albanians. Vrbem ancient, large and magnificent also at the beginning of Vrbis founded: Dionysius The son reports that Romulus was acting: J (JWW
iS-. T&jQi 7ToAtv)xrOTi! :feie(XX. Oti$l5-ct- Fid. then, he says, against the Faithful dttxitfcili- cet, Romulus, ftadiis (qua: confute with five thousand pafts) dtfitam, great and frequent isr popnlo theme Vbinam vero hxc fituta fue- rit, beautifully fane cl in the most beautiful words a little poft to bring the Authors do- cent. The truth of their relationship is not con- held, exploring the place dumcenfui Annoitaquei? vigefi- ma Julii, the whole ukra Salary of Tontetn Regionisdiftri&um, old Sabina- I went to the city, and that I should not be broken by the labor of my journey, deric S. R. I. Comcs de Waldftein, thank you for your incredible kindness you, the fu- turus infpe&or led We found finally the two of them shot from the bridge fuum, the ruins of a huge city, not far off from the Tiber, in that place, where just first fpe&atur, say Um Caftello Giu- bileo, Xenodoclni S. fpiritus jurifdictioni at the confluence of the Tiber nienk thus Dionyphius: Tullus, says he led an army against the and in the distance ftrapofuit, that is; around the Tiber Anie nis trusting, between etm place Faith nas, where Vejcntmm the Tiberian army had transferred For as TeSthDionyfima. it, The earlier fe moved the Sabines, though not despising the aid of the Etruscans, and the caftras were scattered near Fidenae, about the confluence of the Anicnis and the fu- more Amne contrudo, fcaphis& firmed up by the rafters, which Tarqtti- nius with a wonderful genius, different from other fchaps combustible material He was kindled by a fertile river fuc- completely destroyed the cenfu. And from these It is very clear that Fidenas does not exist elsewhere. what day&o place conftitifle; since tefte, Anius, co in the place where Tiberius femifcet, not nifitribusmillibuspa I was no A T H A N A S I I they are supposed snmliit- Fidcnasinioco, whom fuprainnui- Geographical interesting exhibits. To this mine aflertion adftipuktur learned Philip CluVerius, who in that city
veftiganda nrtdtum ftudii pofuiife vi- is given For here Ital. Ancient leaf he says: Vt itaqtte hodte fiic once upon a time from to Anienen they were numbered three liapafifu; on the other side the road falaria are two thousand pafi son to Caftell Jubilee, qttod adfimiftra Vuepartempofttum exadver- let there be no rubbish on the right side of the road the demands of the ancient city, partly in the Valley, partly at a higher place in the contiguous valley. Qiue and I, as it refers, are true e(fe knew. I did not pro- cul a Ttberi diflitam fuiife, ipfe Li vius He said: He drove these regions to the city of Fidenae. Quitfical could not be taken, the high city isr mu- nita Certainly a magnificent city, am- plam, and populate the fuiflfe, Amphi- the fumptuofa ftru&ura clearly de- monftratj in which the temple of Tiberius Augufitis in the twelfth year of his reign a credible disaster occurred when Amphi- the cage of the theater, to the people of the gladiators but fpectante, collapfa plufquam vigin- thou hast oppressed thousands of men; so Sue- the life of Tiberius quit, recalling the avid obteftation of the people accordingly, the defeat which took place at Fidenas thousand men in a gladiatorial role The amphitheater had fallen into ruins. And in Ca- ligula: the fall of the principality of Tiberius It became a memorable event for Yidcm. s. Cruflume- Secunda at Livium, Viony- fium, CKterofque fupra cited Author the most famous Crufiumeriafuh, how I was born between Eretum and Fidenae near the Via Salaria a strong fuiffe it grinds Nam1{omaiws from the Sabines inva. the ditch from Ereto nodu the refugees mam between Crufitumeria and C Fidenas Livius confides. Thank you for us K I C H E R I Indicate the origin of these towns cant who with a fancy rerem, about a thousand miles away on the road Salaries advanced from the ruins of Ftdena, a tower, a small fire on a high fat hill I found that Marcigliano is old today they name, of the old buildings celebrate them and at this point I reasoned bus Livius convitSus, Crufitumeriam pri- fcam fitam fuiffe efiftimo, CluVerium "ma"c' I find it adftipulating to me, how better from a map, than I will not define in more words rim, you will catch And in this place the mention of the Sacred Mountain is made by Saccr from the Roman Empire, Li- vio, Dionfius, Feftus, Platttarchus; who au- what was the matter, in what place it was fit, and why to do it called, let us open. DicTmn a little an- tcPomanosaSabinisnekio quo terro- in a matter of panic from Ereto (as We find no other word than which today Montc Podondo, Mont it is said to be cut off) no&u refugees among Crufitumeriam, Ftdenas confediffe, ad For the sake of many wishes taking refuge, whom Idebfiacrum to say. In Via, says Livy cuitumicu- Lend's name was, the maker of the mountain caftrain locaVcrunt Etc. diftantiamejusab Determining the situation: P! ebs, he says, in He made a mighty mountain beyond Anie- and the river was three miles from the city of Paffius. Dionyphius joins the reason of the tymi: With these decrees, he says, the altar was filled on the lowest hill, on which the caftras had settled, with what a panicky terror, with which he was then seized had been, their native language was called Jupiter Faunus, in which Sacrifice was appeased, and in that place confederacy, in which they confederated, with the legate rcVerfi are made in the city: whose&Ovidius I. it happens remembers: The people of the old world are still alive Tribune He flees, and goes to the summit of the mighty mountain. When this mountain was fattened in the spring, Li- They define the city as three thousand across the river from the city Anienem, on the Via TSLomentana. We go to to trace the true place, Via. "Komen- Ficlea Collated V E T U S N Tiomentana, which today is called Pia, by the bridge of St. Agnes, near where Anius He turned close to the city, near the alle-- warnings of the authorities to three thousand Liapaffus advanced, we find col- not to be despised: the height of ta caftellum, which is called St. Sylvester's, and I make this and this wicked mountain once high, today a lump of earth with the growth of the rum, somewhat flattened we bring certain conftitiffej with CluVerius,
with the registration of the Authors perfe&e it is appropriate to use the Geographical Map cet. a. It was very well remembered. This Club Verius a. d Caflellus puts it, every day (Bajilio is said, in Vta Nomentana, which the vctercs called Fwulea, about twelve thousand fathoms away a poor city: we have not this elsewhere conftitifledicirnus, than in ditfio place, where CluVerim puts it, whose fen- O V U M L A T I U M. m admonition prophesied by Dionysius: Tar-CoI'a'i pofl deVtclam Col- Uo. fidm latianWCorniculum moVtt, ipfumquefn fubaclum 'lr the Latin name of the town dumfeat Cumitaquejamfupra Corni- a small town of the name of Sabinus oftendcrimus, Tarqtinium while on the contrary The Sabines moved to war, he was able to devicLim Collate the city of the Sabines, gently move to fight Cornelius viffe, who is already in the field of the Latins not at all fed in ho- the field of the Sabines was contiguous from the ipfis The author's words are quoted. Whence it is better for us in the Sabine wwRegion, between Crustumeria Ftdenas we gave it to you. Additionally, the gate. Tmciana is not different from the caufa Collatintt di- it is done, the snow that through it beyond the road to Collatinus Agrium Aniene with three thousand paflus then it would be granted. The celebrated ninth in the Sabine Nomm- tentia: we will write, use the map do- cet. 4-Ubinam Collatia, from the wicked Sextus Lucretia was shocked by the crime of the sons of Tarquinius he was famous, he was fat, he was great again Authors among the contenders I find it controversial. They are her in Latium, near the city, on the Via Vrtnestina by the authority of Frontinus, tamafferunt, to others and most of the Sabines counting it twice. to the former CluVerius will write to the opinion, to whom I to write on other accounts not at all puffed up. Fuiffc between Cruflumeria and Fidenas from the fruits of the old It is clear from the records of the children. Livius he said, Tarquinius of the Sabines, perhaps the war will be indixijfet, he will pour out the springs, among the fortresses of the Sabines cities isr collation together with all re- the bus and the farmers who were around Collatia Adcmpt to the Sabines. The teams are clear terpatet, the collation of the Sabines fuiffe ur- well In addition to this
A town in the region, mill. paf I was exhausted; the origin was Diyny- Jio tefte, is said to be habuiffe by Albatm, and founded at the same time as Cruflumeria Ftdeme were founded, to the three brothers who brought the colonies to him bus, of whom Fidenas was the eldest He founded it, about the manner of which there is not much difceptarrduirr. with the same place, where in later times the town of L then, commonly known as Lamentano, fpe&a- l%l mouse, from the old ftauratum, not far from Eretus The eastern quarter, where Nomentana Yia mSalarta fell. But what lu- Culententiflune recorded by Strabo let us see: J) i&m&iu tvtii), oAviav thietot, Xj to KaAaa p v oallg. vd, (M KorAiiv mySv, as)q wotY. iKci. ; vorzc mvatjt, eyx. ct. Sn- ppotc vytetid- tcI cwto. tgJi tci AoL- bcwa one. chraSnv tvtoiv av tyi nic rsfej cam pum, mquk, through whom Anius passed, Al- everywhere the cold waters flow from many in tisfontes Ee aut terntone name no iii AIHANASI Mat ful- Mt pyg bathroom ufurbatA rcmedium bent alcs quoque Junt noncul mde Aqux Labanx m AgroNomentano t3 around Erete. This water is still they are made in Lamentano Tatitorium, etc. go di&x Gli Hagni dellagrotta maroa, that is, from the bitterness of the fic dictx As for Albula from various sources let him say that they were harvested, they will be cut off in time Strabo, changed j am in the face of things, al io derived from fontibtts Nomentants origi- He was leading them; today cefte AWula not from various fountains, fed from Albuh ri- Lacu Albuneo fupra dclcript origin AlbuKo fumpta, poit about ten thousand paiius difciternfett mifcetur pernovamfof-
fam from Cardinal Hippophyte d'EUe to The territory of Tybwintim from the waters to free the poor from tyranny excavated about a hundred years ago; of which Le&oc confutes them, which in I reported from Lake Albune a mouse, from which Lamntanus did not know what toor, thousands of pafluum diftac Eretum Eretum, Greek Uprfev, the same and Yrii. in the place where the mountain today Mont&totundojuyxa. prominent Jybc ris collem fituatumfuiffe Strabodocet with the following words: vsrtKH$juv What are you? , that is However, the stream of the Tiber. Dionysius tefte a hundred Forty-five days lacked, where? to thirteen thousand leagues they dye to-day on Mount at least twelve are numbered in the thousands things Almost all the writers of Eretum Eretum deri vant m H'W? i namely Round from the moon, which fills the same ohm was worshiped. and from Gracis Telajgis, five Sicilians, five the priests of the Aborigines long before J. nex arrival in Italy, conditamfuiffe I K I R C H E R I rather than that they should be exposed, they dwell with them I don't want to Corniculum, the town of the Sabines the rest are not celebrated Ereto is not He was far away, that is to say, in in a place where just Ecclefa Marcbaritella Commonly known as Dida, commonly referred to as Verga so close to the river Magliano today while two thousand miles from Montibm Cor- niculans, whom I do not despise others than any dayMo; Angels, They call it Monticeum, in the past one pa often for the remoteness of them the bus bursting into the air like two express the horns It is mentioned akeru to Corniculani these MontiSj to the town of Farfarum, i 7{igillum name, the birth of be celebrated; I will go with him to this one and every day there are no rushes leaving that, let us proceed to other things. Do you care, Kax? Cures of the Sabines metropolis Tatius King of the Sabines, Nitma Toftlii of the fruitful King rnm country; of which Virg. where Ancbifes the son of Aeneas in the underworld it is done Kegis Romani: first of all the laws Vrbem He will found, CurebusrVij- (srpatipere earth Mijftis in the great Empire. Ovid it happens You take care of the park It seems strange to anyone why let the poet say little Cures, however others bring most of the others; so flow tarchusin Numa Popilio: Kai; 7roA? cJmpouiK cm "Eat&ivaii (Curcs il- fighting in the Sabines. cV elsewhere: ta&ivot zafilajj woAiv oiy. SntgivflUfj. ova. ncM: The Curetes inhabit the Sabines in prxcedents of the happy city; tk in another place, ma- originally we taught, Today is celebrated a populous town for the jury Sarberina's family he faces He has a field fertile fat fed fulphureis glcbis gra- come the truth, when hxc is better known, fjiiyiw a! i; iu[Aa. iXiso-n&i3-vx; .InVr- fff be Maxima, Z? Where was the head of the tribe, Vr- be Curi indiBo common fujfragi conci- lio deccrnunt, T)uce conjiituto Titus Tatio Cured OLD NO You need a cure. Strabo and Virgil Ovid almost ovywov@J, doubtful fight: j), he says, viwppriOdfJJ- indeed, I was a small village, once upon a time men Vrbsfuit to him. from which he gathered there, why are the Cures called ready by Virgil, and great: from others, because the Sabino peoples rum swjrfwtranirnigrantibus, as the King I was Tatius, already from in the common Adhering to the strength of the kingdom rent, the city of Curitum gradually from the celebrity teadeo failed, ScStra- in good time he escaped into the village. Un- I. of non-finite ratio, while in TSLumd Rc- Curienfis giam digmtatem fufpicit Virgtltus, ex pattu only the King Romulus Quiri's hair just said there? in such a cheap place He is justly surprised. They met So much so that the inhancfcntentiam to depart, as from two peoples, %omans Sabinisjmus fierct, Sabim fwM. would immigrate, but the name was Koma he will hold back; yet with a proficuous name Sabini Komani Curites, five they would be called thus Livy l. i. Servant Virgil's commentator: Romulus, in Quit, and that's what Quirinus said the language of the Sabines cdur: for bafta, ideH, Curis, telum lon-
gum efl, unde y fecuris quaftfemicnris. qua: uticj, a Feftus deprompts the same fen- holding And Ovid beautifully describes the matter bitfafU. n. (The next light is a lake, but the third will be said Quirino ui holds Iberius Romulus in front it breaks SiVe that bafta Ouirispriftcis eHdicla of the Sabines; 'The warrior comes with a weapon in aflra Dcus Tttit. If I were, I could name Quiri- you Or because he had joined the Romans he You care. the origin of this famous Cu- De; the origin of the city two: focused opinions: the former is Aborigines in Teftrina, the first of the Sabbaths believe me, not far from the city of Amiterna V U M LATIUM. tiy I safe, fadain Keatinum Field expedi- tion, the siege of Cutdias, and then miflis from the colonies of Keatinus Agro, among other things Several small towns were immune, Cures also confidant. so Dionysius Tom- Rather, Sabinus Virgius, the commentator of F'M' dt cx Varrone gives another origin of this city. reports that he recites "Dionysius" lam with a certain enchantment Genius Enialus of the Sabines, whom the Komani Ouirinus is said to be infacrario compref- fam, a baby boy named Mo- long, surnamed Falidium; this manly man. pores, mum, as well as condendxurbisavidi tate tatecitum within a short time Cures con- didifle But the genius of Enialum Somani Who, indeed, was born from him, the founder of the Curium, the same Fidtum then they called Verily we re- According to the fabulous narrative of the former We will fubfcribe more closely to the truth. And with his first words, to explain "Cu- he replied, where in the region of the Sabines so famous a city was destroyed. Cleverius In this place he will write in these words: Eph bodte MonaHeriolum baud far abHi- honey: the bank of the river (L'Aia already inhabited is called) the common appcUatione II Vefco- viodi Sabina, idesf Epifcopatus binenfis, mdle paffus from the town of Selic, bismdle paffusd tonidiftans, and a vast place is formed by fate once the ruins of a city, a manor, a tower Aquadticluum inftgnes left; these indeed, the remains of the letters of the Court. In which in a true place, that famous Sabinenfis Epi- fcopi faiths once confounded, from which city was named among the Authors controversial, since today from the first fex of the order of Epifcopis, Supreme Pontiff in the aflftentibus facris, folus Epifcopus At the end of the Sabinenfis fede, from the country of Folus not to be named by the city. True when this difficulty as fcitiflime dc- cideritinquadamepiftokj how eru- our dearest Dominic Magrim Theolo- t4 A T H A N A S I I Gus, Viterbienfis Ecclefix Canoni- which he gave to the Eminentiffim Francifcum Mary S. R. E. Cardinal Viter- bienfis Sabinenfis Ecclefia: Epifco- already denounced by Aksandn VII Pontiff, I say Cardinal, fapity omnigene: dodxinse worship incomparable, who book, in which of this Sabinenfis Ecclefnrjura, author rites, from the last, which Canonici, which K I R C H E R I Addu&isTefti- admonitions, how perilously they are decided, Card. published, with the title: Francifci Marie Car- de oprio- dinalis Brancati on optioneVl Eptfcopa- l1' True, as a result of this difficulty Let it be more clear to the ceflii, Epiphtola in this place, as if in a convenient place, ad a better understanding of the Laws, I hesitated to infer. To Emintntifi i? %eVtrcndifi. Cardinal FRANCIS MARY BRANCATIUM THE BISHOP OF SABINA Dominki Magriconje&ura: offerings dc SabinenfiEpifcopatu. QVod to your excellent honesty, and in re- gindis Ecclefiis dtxttritati, must batur, ttlementiftami Tontificis providentid faSium is, as in ampltfiimo (Sabine Senate of the Purple Fathers fem Ecclefiamgovernandamfuciperes In which option, isr jufiis Sac. Collegitvotis, isrtotius omanie Curix expeilationi fa- tisfatlmnfuijfe all confess. This is what I said in your honor, not so out of courage I had much more comfort in it. Let me send the letter to the lake to what de Sabinenfi Epifcopatu (olttn uno txfacriSeptemViratusCardineLateranen- fis Bafilicce) Veritatk indagandsegratia ex
The peifunilory of the ancient Scriptures Itctiont, I gathered with isrfejlining eye, to cele- rata fecurita Utitice impatience would mitigate I would be glad to meet you adorned with learning and sharp judgment these my rude and skillful learnings partially tested In truth In ipfo, therefore, the threshold fta- tim met the most important node d nemi- neither (which I read) nor Old, nor let us notice the more recent writings I will say explained. "Kempe why Sabi- nenfts Antiftes not from any State, Or Mttropolis; the whole province surrender will he go out? That in the Councils of Otcumtnic and other writings we have never read. Wise I will now put an end to the opinion of Chloritin, who Jr. Bishop isr his supporters rtdeantur ptngutbus ca- simf. chines I noticed a very similar cror- tit P. Philippiis Labbe futnmct erudi- tion of the Ecclesiastical writer in the Synopsis of the councils, in which Binnus is the lappiest ejufqne Scribes, who leVtfiitna conjetlura and they called him the Council of the Sabines that which was celebrated in Valli-foleti in 'Hippania fub Joanne, named XX! tb in which it appears to him Apoflolicct of the See, the legate William Sabtnenfis Epifcopus It is with everyone scribes make such men of the mind, qudm profane, certain and indubitable fempcr was the chief and ruler of the Sabines Vrbem appellatamfuiffe Cures, inclytam, dt qua ctcitnt Virgilius Vatum Princcps. sMaarum. Aieidi Tatioque hay Curibufque spring fever Qtut Civitas pojled tranfmigratis Rome Vtlis, and defpeth. For Tatius and Romulus had come together to fade into this fcntentiatn, as ex two peoples one would be efftcere, isr Sabini They migrated to Rome, the Romans from Verbno men would retain: fed Romans fmtul ac The Sabines were called Quirites, as evidenced Livitts lib. i. So twinned (ideft Rome) OLD NOV that Sabims would still be liquidated, Oui- rites called by Curtbus. Yes, that it is majits, the seat of Curuli is the greatest ris mfigne, ac%cgiaappcllata, deducknr d Curibus from Lippi 1ib. iz dc Ma- gift and all of Yiris' teachers. Conceive dendwn tameu cft, Cures sometime confufe diclos effe Sabinos tempons dc- Curfu, as from the Manuscripts of Nicolai Heinfii at Holftenium in Annota- Geographical settings. so true that y was good, to place the straw of the Sabines in the Cures Ever totiw head, cl hair cut destroyed by Cares, in his Ter- ritorio, as infrd often from D1Y1 cSitosL Epiphtola of Gregory the Great. Kam where tfiZh, Zante adntum they stayed. ficaff, Ethnic Trotoflamines Vrf FIcl- more riimque fucceffonbm, ,as ibtdem Ar- cbiepifcopi, is- Epifcopi ordmarctur, so m facrirs Canontbus ftateunt Lu- Cius, Clemens, and Anacletus Sum- my Pontiffs Cap. Dift. So. Fnde in the Council of Oman, celebrate tofubHonorioPapaan. efuffcri- pfitTibaius of the Court of the Sabines lcopus riumubim buppofto this folidtpimo, and certif- SibinaJ Jlmo fwll{ammo npt exdmman while in what part Sabina; fue rtt Curium ciYitas? For from this ac- Curatefitus indage easily crit Epifco- straw fedcm iuVenire Leander came out ftimat, Cures fuiffe town bodie (Tower) called fed d to such a man I compel you to withdraw with shame, as from my probatwmbus infrd tlarif- it is obvious He made the same opinion tH Blondus, qut perperam intelltgcns Epiphtola of St. Gregory, not dtfcrimi- naYt Ecleftam S. Anthimi, whose memtnit the Pontiff, from Ecckfia St. Eu- fear for S. Antchimi Presbyteri, and Martyrismenit Martyrolog. Ro- hand on the 2nd of May; Euthymius Ve- ro Diacom on the Thursday of the same month a son of whom Ecclefia was a fubterrane Where now is the Episcopalian, bo- A wide one. uj and every day there is Graiorium fub you inVo- cationc, that antiquifinna veneration- indkftfto tnYtfunt p0pu- Sabinus in c"f"tu Jubilee Maftnu fiuts Manufcriptis patrue love fe. tTfi, i CuriuHk ducttts, mordtals contcndit grumble fuiffe Cures, fed with figs dto factllime jugulantnr rattoncs from him
adduct Cluvier is also a womanizer Cures was ashamed, i-r the new forum, feu Foronovus, (so that others will strike) fa- each of the two chntats uni- cam only Indeed, Foronov was tn in that place, in which the bodte exists anti- when the Sabinenfe Epifcopium was once born feentts Ecclefia exordiis dtcatum S. Eu- thyme, now Verd B. Maria; Virgin neither; at the time of Eugenius IV phm It was called S. Maria Major in of the Sabines, as from the emphysema Theoficis in m. Confirmatur ma- I think my gts htc is from a certain book Manuferipto Mmliani ferVato, m quo it is read, S. AariaForinovi. That's right the erudition of Marianus Vido with great talent and learning fiuf fcrtbens Senis Jubilio Mauro day Oclobris i: in bec Words: V. S. nV ha fatto gran piacere, anzi grandilimimo a commandarmi quella fcrittione del Vefcovio, e tengo cer- tiflimo, cheli foffcForum noVum. for they give birth to as many bodies as possible gta Foronovi, which fatt Romano Rum Munictpium, to collect from an- tiquiftma tnfirtptioms fragmcnto ibi- upon finding it, which Holftenius relates tix antiquitatts ftudw fufpiciendus m were the Geographical Annotations, work poftbumo, excofu liberaltta Am- Cardinal Francis Barberi ni, deuniVerfa Litteratorum %epubli- ca very well deserved, while the codes as well Gracchus, who rescued the Latins from darkness I am publishing them publicly for the benefit of Studioforum he takes care of the fujiciendes. Which ferVet fum the mouse of things to the happiness of the people tatem, isr fm Komints goodness. Cla- the river is also proved, the new Forum bocin instead of exftitijfe, exaliaVetuftiftma Ff hell zz6 ATHANAS in the inscription, qut is read at the foot of the Altar St. Euthymius in the same temple plo, of course: D. N. M. A N T NII GORDIANI PII FELI- CIS AUGUSTI FORONO VAIN DEVOTED TO THE GOD THEIR MAJESTY If Cluverius Yigilans, opening his eyes Pliny will read the issue, not in a great error, by confounding these two cities For Pliny counting The people of Sabini will write the book z, chap. n: Sabinorum Amiterni, Curenfes, Fo- the rum of Decius, Forumnovum, Whence I think, by the side of Numentana, two high Epifcopahs faiths to be numbered effe in Sa- two one was fit for Cures, the other at The new forum, where the Epi- fcopium, ttt opentifime colltgitur from fubfcriptionibm Synodaltbus. Txttra in At the first meeting of the Omanis, Sr fourth celebrated by Symmachus, fem- by fubfcripfit Proje&itius Eptcopm ForonoVanus: still in the same Con- ciilis fubfcripfit Dukitius Epifcepm St. Anthimi, qutt was in Ter- ritorio Curenfil, as below, Ytdebimm manifest; so also in another Conctl $(Oman fub Felix III Pope, fub- fcrtpjirunt Feliciffimus Sabinenftum iy Afterius ForonoVanm Eptfcopi. Er- There were two Episcopal faiths everywhere diftinBtt. Why I'm talking about Valerii Chimentelli Sabina earned the honor of Bifelli. This one I was the most cheerful man I give birth to teach, and with piety 1ene- ror, and all the golden lucubrations fen- full of tentacles aYtdifimi leg. 'I wish- At the right time I am coming to another registration in the Lateran Council fub Martino V, fciltcet Joannis pifcopi Vici-Sabinatu. Forfttan because feViente hofiium incurfiont, isr dele- tis civitatibm Sabinorurri, Cures Yi- to whom he will bring it, as Strabo's proof libretto You care now that the village is once the city of the others. Here's where to go the name of Epi- fcepum Snbinenfem ProYmcite Antiflitem I K I R C H E R I contrary to the whole Ecclefice rite. downfall for the climate of the city because of the enormous the ropes were set on fire, so that you fled with tears St. Gregory the Pontiff, pracf son of Totila; at the time, as from the registration Narfetis WpontemSalariumyitfa' ma- it is obvious that Imb sometimes Sabinai Epifcopm yocatur Lateranenfls, qut The nomenclature was certainly common Epifcopis Safilicte Lateranenfi adfcri- ptis clejiaftici, isr I in my Notes V. Cardinal. These conjeHum, isr proofs admtjlts, ajfero bolder, imb eYtden-
very much, because I have patrons in Holfte nium teflcm oculatum, isr of their loco- rum perttifimus tndagator, isr Ma- Roman Vi&orium Epifcopum Ameri- num, Ytrum fingularis eruditionis, isr docliftmum of exotic languages, Cu- Curium things futjfe at the river Curenfem Blondo corrnpte, Curtenfem, appel- wide Today the town, twisted 1oca- bulo, Correfe, called 1'ulgb. Work iManufcriptum Mariani Vidorius de the kingdom of the Italians, and the adbuc of the Sabines He did not touch the earth, in which against Jubilee lium Maurus Medtcttm, who also xtsmedtCcvsmanm strove to admoVere, by changing the records of Vetuftifltmai, Cures futjje Correfe town proves, near the Monastery of Farfenfe, which ho- Farfl. a day counts one hundred and fifty heads. This truth is also verified from the anti- quiftma donattone ejufdem Monafterii years ago. Ouare de- Letius Curibus, the capital seat He fled to Ecclesiastes of St. Anthem Mar- tyris exiflent in the territory of Curium, in which place Sanclm Prcsbyter Martyritm paffm eft, ttt from the Martyrologies, Ro- mano, Beds, Ufuardi, isr Adonis pa- tet, the way of Saferia, you will be fertile ab Vrbe mtlliario: with whom he acla inVenies apud Surium on the eleventh of May, who also recites the fermon of B. Petri Damiani iu the praise of Santli Martyr. Appeal but the wide efl road Salaria, w, as ViiSaiaria fcribit Veftus, through her Sa. bmiftlemarim they carried OLD NEW they will be transferred Ouando lerb some fcri- The poets rejoiced at St. Anthimus's attainment ejfle the palm of Martyrdom in the Pine Field no, they are to be understood from the field on the way Salaria, whom Falco Pinia coveted but from S. Anthimus to the faith of CoiOmJus, in whose favor the Oratory had built in the place of Martyrn, ex- and in the same place 1eWigia of the same Church fite, and the most famous monastery, and bodieque Vulgb S. Antimo, mncupati. From that therefore, the transfer at the time it took the pifcopus Sabinenfs called S. An- thimi in the territory of the Curium, isr fic Dulcitius Dukitius Epiflopus S. Antbimi fub- Ephr. r r r r, J Jcripft LoncuiK 'i{omams tertio, isr the fifth son of the celebrated Symmachus, who LATIUM yet the same Sweetness in the first Con- ciliofub with the same Symmachus flubflcripfe- rat abflolute Epiflcopus Sabinenfis; er- Epifcopus Sa- binenfis, sr. S. Anthimi in Curium territory John the Deacon in ta St. Gregory Papce lib. Ch. tells St. 'the Pontifical Commendaffe Ec- clcjiam S. Anthimi proper Paflore dcftitutam, Gaudiofo Epiflcopo Nu- mentauo, ntpote Yiciniori. But ex- the foot refers to the same epiphtola buc The word, not Jolitm to strengthen I have my undoubted counsel, Fed ctiam admanifeflandam so much rPaftoris Yt gdantia, and Joliatude in orege pd- by doing Gregory Gratiofo Epifcopo Nurnentano. Epipht. Lib. II. Indicl. XI. When the impiety of desire diverts tumultuousness, thus committing sins with these, he drove away Ecclefias, to repair the pits no fpes them, the people deficient, re- he stayed; majorivalde care we cry, lest they should be buried by the Priests these, the remains: of the people, with no Pafto- ris controlling the government, . by de- the way of the faith of the wise man let them be carried away by the unfaithful. Therefore, the fo- I was moved by the lawfulness of my father, this I know He was tired of the confiliurn of the heart, as neighbors of them we will send to the papal government you give And therefore to your Fraternity; with the government of Sancius An- to me Ecclefia; in the Court of the Sabines we have seen com- to be sent, than yours; Ecclefia; ag to gather together, it is necessary for each of both Ecclesiastes Sacer- dos re&e, Cbrifto adjuvante, pof- you became the exifer, and what you have about him of the treasury, or of the ordination of the clergy, watching the promotion of feu, re&a ac Canons have been alive, care difpo- to spin: indeed, as a proper Pontiff You will be free from the curse with permission Therefore Frater Chariflime, Dominicans rc- thus cunningly ignoring the commandments in commifla: under the rule of the people, lu- and watchful with great souls, as before the court of other judges
good fruit: of the operation, which ad your salary belongs to the same Re- with the helper, in which the ketari present Hujits Sanflifim, and Cardinal Sapientifim (paftor, smoke with the kindness of Sa- s&ji, I will take care of Ecclefia for you, and then in the governing of the Churches I have notified Yigilantia recommended Quippt who has lynx eyes in Viterbotenfi proptnqutori fpecula con- washed away, not Jolum's only eye in- tuitu unhterjam Sabinenfcm Diaccftm you contemplate, fcd also because of the breYifim of the places between the valleys, of your You hear very well, and your Yicijfim they know Is not the town of Manlia while, your chief oYilk oftium to close the tenfu with the hands, isr referart do not let thieves steal your sheep, do they lose tsr from somewhere else? there that refldet totiits herds Ofliarius Yi"i- lantifflimus Salamis: Epicoppus, who Your yces flydulb exercises, ?reefnque Ff i your A T H A N A S I I yours leads to fat. Why in noVo "rcge by agreeing to the dexterity of the burden of the rain Tuce imposed ejfe, re ipfa not experienced the wall Htec fcripji, Not as genius your golden I use the name) to enrich my children I will try to teach you a little bit and the ear-rings above the character; fed as pcri- my speed in meeting the speed offering Mtbi also took care hide the page with a smaller limit, as you the heaviest holiday events with the praise of the detainee moderate reading for with your wits nothing will be done nor does profane learning support faith. Lon- In the meantime, let him remain a happy Phoenician. ?re[ul isr 1ita tuaEccle- fie Ortbodoxte is considered a profit. naturally bio October From this very well-founded reasoning It is clear from nothing, what about Epiko- to be held by the pious Sabinenfis Pontiff it becomes use this thing for a long time The characters of the bed are still suffocating, so also, in which place it once con- and on this and every other day feveret, from now on we will die. Where is the note? Ecclefia, vicar of the Sabinenfis: faith K I R C H E R I I'm already in trouble, Maniani, vul- go to Magliano, not far from Ttberi, where And this day the Episcopus of Salamine returns Sc fufraganeus Epifcopus Sabinenfis Quintilianus Gentiluts, prafful the best most vigilant But I am already in the habit of knowing let us return; the springs of HimelU flow co, than the old Cafferia, Vtbii fth In the following words, to bring that im- furs, which in the Catalog of jiumin fic says: Himella Sabine River pro- pe Cafferiam: cumque hfpra eodem it is made in place, or from the day nor the corrupt name of the town, Afpra, where would you say Afperia, restored C li- tera, Cafferiee prifca; the fate of the city explains, of which he also mentions cit Virgilius, Silius Italicm iupra ci- father Moreover verfus culum, they meet the town of Vacunce God, that I with CluVcrius, that in the place where it was once made Vacuna fanum, &nemus When had, of whom Tlinius mentions
undcno- mtn C A P ll T O E T U S N O V U M LATIUM. C A P u T II, you were memorable to the Agrireatini.
Aborig bitatttf. Inc dcnique will be reached in Agrv. m %eatinum ultimum the border of the Sabines, who like the old Velafgos, We celebrate the birth of the aborigines, nor not the nature of miracles: fcecundiffi- he is a mouse, so also he in this place to be explained with the old towns I married The field is now from the ancient city {eate iic diarius, starting from Felmis censed to the river Narem extenfus, Mon- ttbus Apennines diverfie appellation is closed In the early times of Si- sjisMH; poflidebant; with which then Peisfgiser lajgis, Hyux Tyrrbeno, eGrecia novas Colonies of what future (those from Spineticus until recently they had landed here) with faith You were driven out, the field of the Aborigines was hungry He was left behind and to other and other colonies to be given in advance. who all with the fufimost in the first part of this work With the book, he advanced beyond Hetruria we will not dwell on them any longer.
Agrttm %catinum marshes lakes bus abundaffe, he is in confeffo at all the writers of human affairs: in- three times, however, Velini 8c Cutilii La- whose merit becomes the most frequent, among Lytus, Flemim, Seneca, and others we will allege that True as from the modern face, the ancient hu- the right %atim Agri conftitution better innotefcat I in Intera- htr a. mnibus to the said tteatini Avrt diftri- AgruRea. with which to explore, m with which several the bottom I had understood worthy of admiration, set off, where first through different ways Caradupa ciles I cut into Catadupa toxa Italiace- icara di fiflimis praruptiflimifque cautibus im- menfo crash pnecipitatus Mirife mif- cct. A place truly full of horror, and who easy to induce dizziness -Agtr fa be playful it is for with such a crash the waves of the aquarius the mass in the abyss of the mountain I must live like no one, no matter how loud. crying the loudest, ni vehemence audiatjad Catadupa-s Nili you think that you will confit, where Strabo tefte Accola: vehemenria foni obfurduiffe di- it is broken Smoke from the colliding water it is so futile that in perpetuity bula conftititutum, sometimes thence you will also be well-drained rias Whence the shining beast did not defecate and in- I will destroy the clouds there three times I wonder at the shape of the rainbow without end, it is permissible to fpcdare; of which the Mun- while Noftmmfubtcrraneum, where about this Nature's prodigy is beyond reason mouse
Itching Eft Vclinm fluVuts c Veftinorum mon- Vei leading to tibtti's origin, whence&f of the valley, which he crossed, from the priests of Velia It was here that Lacum Velinum, popularly known as piety, de Lara, offending, as it were, the city any one, then safe the first Catadupa, commonly known as Ca- they call it made of marble, after Iapium in it Narem, who originated (or from Fifcello, Pracelfo leads the Apennine mountain, horribly I give the roaring of the steaming waters k[c discharge But I have already conquered this place let us see the confection. It is certain the whole of this tract was once marshy suffusum, tefte to Dionysius; fadus, inquny The aborigines do with the Pelafgis, isr par- tem agrorumfuoru many lakes, most of which were palu- ftrta, o)j oT? hfj rat 7roAAcl sAairA, , a. viw$ -pv Ae%auw? 7fov OviAta. ovoficldcvi, that is what most of them are now the priestly language of Velia So spread the swamp over the field Ff 'fquack--, fjttam flows, Vclia
ijo A T H A N A S I fqualefcente, the first of all pertufo on the mountain, water flowing everywhere, in M. Curim Den- to tattts Conful, in the year from the city con- flood t3) after the Sabines, I say, among the the marshes of the Reatine mountain in the Narem hurry up so Cicero to Atticus: With these rebm aSlk Reatini me to fita They led him to the field against Interamnatesapud OuodLstcus Velinus was emijfus by M. Curio He disappeared between the mountains of Narem It is Villaficcata, but it is still moderately crowded. At this point it is worth asking, whether or not this place has no exit rit, with which to deliver from the violence of the waters there? I mean, of course I had a way out, fed a little, which I cut off at will the larger mountain M. Curius Conful will return For how Velinm ftuYim is constantly blocked by mountains by the increase of the waters, not totarh soon The city of Qfoatina was flooded with water oppleffet, he will not be ofttimes to him, per that he would exonerate faith, of which see how very different Tacitus An- final Most writers say, Lake Vellum, in a bundle, each in it they have been cast out, it is wonderful to be converted force to pollinate thus Pliny c. in exit you, said he, Reatine of the marshes; , than Sabi- if they do not accept it, the bundle grows. Seneca quo- that nat. quxft. chap. zo: From there that they were drawn out of the lake with stones in the Italise quibufiam places eVenit, fffe Ytr- you will drown the gamfeufrond, you will stone it for it was poured out for a few days to coipori and to drink little by little. All this also in Lake Albune
we have demonstrated that it is possible to write where also this prodigy was born we returned the caufas. Since then the falm canta petrifica: facultatis cffica- cia pollet hence merited mouse, this one near Catadupa the mountains are covered with fcopuli from the first: the times are continuously limited I have turned to the growth of the fax, now claufum, Velini faculty pctrifictl. mcntorum yjVelini I K I R C H E R I the diffusion of the accumulated he had hid the fall, now he opened again then the fuiffe; certainly from different ca- nals, who will go there on this day and on that day fpe&antur, to me Velini Catarratlam curious explorer, clearly pa- protects Gceniinadmirandis o(mt, %eatinis vnguj only the hooves of cattle to harden the rum, which is of course from the tenacious Tartary slime, the hooves almost in the grass hardening occurs; whereVw- rone tefte, affines a; ftive time in montesexados, Agroea- tino, to be done with the hardest hooves: how I am very fond of you, why the Authors Rcatinos are related to all the rest to preside over the regions of the kindred, Varrone tc- fte; By this name, he says, also the affine Ar- cadici in Gracia nobility, in Italy tin each eb, as med memoria affine 1e- it is not HS thousand; some- drig. e Romx coniliterint four hundred millibm And in the teftimony of this ret Murritt brings some food defe the speaker: i? jo, he says, you are deaf. I shall say, what fum Reatinus? the best and the greatest have entered. Fuiffe there are various %oman villages around La- Velinus, collected from the Authors; the interalia of Tempe Keatina are celebrated, Tempe not inferior to the Theffalians, of whom Ciceropmlo was mentioned before, where& deM. Curio T)entato, that the steep mountain pa- Tempe's favorite games He complained that he had left something dry. Hifce goes to Kofem Camp in Ano R-Mtinus Keattno, whom the most fertile fuiffe Hc mmiuhx the smoke is woven into Italy by Varro; to pro- It may be wondered why Tempe poftde- the flow of dry waters, 'R. ofea, however He said, "Remanfiffe the fields of so much fertility. SerVim, as also a pole of length the height of the grasses motion, how much per day then it would only grow during the night that Virgilius to the province said: And how long the herds gather every day Exiguk Vmilhtn Jlgri. OLD NO Only a little geltdws ros nocle repo- net But when Servius says, so great: Imnc Q(ofolanus, for fic calls him, a field fertility fuifie, utpertica: height the fertility of the plants would be impaired, that than to be believed tica ere&a, nifi forfan for herbs intelli- xcrit in the bush and everywhere I went the height of the fylvefcents; to use the truth this is contrary to the Author's mind, so it is He had far betrayed human faith. I read Finally, with Varro, another explanation a profanity contrary to him, which SprYlUs brings: Crfar Vopifcus, in- but, what caufarn he was doing with the Cenfores, Campos Rofea: dixitfumen Italianar effe; in which the reltci. e ftrtica paftridk does not appear rentproperly I speak; to whom P. ltnius fubfcri- bit, in the same rxcne words, from Varro de- ready, namely Canipus, Kofea, Italta elf smoke in which the two poles he would cover the grass; where not from the poles in raised high, fed to the ground throw it openly he speaks, although there, when of the can- nabe %ofta feu %eatina speaks, -ad pro- as regards cannabis to these, says he, rofea in Jgro Reatinus, arbo- water the height of the rum: that as well bss-ioXi-mc, di&um "no one did not let the snow break from the bushes and branches He willed the same, most of them also among the trees named by botanists they are rare. I will die this diftri&um Rcatinum today so much: no I found out how old they were. Ippiif"' Remember also the writers VtlU fitar, dequafero inEpift to Jticcum &cTcrentius Varro l. Delmgua Latina, cfuos fufule. To Lactatm pari- The goddess Veltnia was worshiped three times by the priests, by Ve- Nay, as Varro dkk, Velinia dida, in fano
Slucucus adjoins the lake; where: CluPerius trusting, forfan, he says, from this way Velinne Des luco, a small town, that Pi4dsLu-n0CadnuC in the inner finucon- co. lLs" is depicted, and commonly called Pie de Luco, a Where is the strong place? mxDix. HLagopiede Luco
V U M L A T I u M. The belches are mentioned by the anriquis scribes several towns once m this diftricl is not a little: of celebrity; Of what kind are the Pallants of Jboriginum Wtatiii faiths, from Pallantio Jrcadia city fic di&a ppiJ' from whom I desired from Evander, where I desired Coma founded, PallantiumVrbs, the mountain Tiora bus elsewhere Ttora, Ltfla, family, quo-gj: made from the mind of the ancients rum, in mappatopographkaexhibui- mouse Of the I(eate of the whole Sabine Region Ratd I say nothing of the metropolis, since I have already spoken of it elsewhere we did hiftori-e jam fat notx fint One thing remains to be discovered; and it is Lacws Cv. ttltarum, so at Authores, LanuCa from the first tranfmi- tllic"fisi of Gnecor in Italutm For Macrobius And they go to Dtonyfim, Pelaphgos when in Gne aafedibus fuis pulfidiverfas terraspc tiflent, confluxifle plerofque to "Dodonx- an oracle, uncertain, to whom they would answer places, of this kind I received and refponfum. Continue to conquer Siculus Saturnia countryside And the Aborigines Cotylen where fe infula Veclat, Cutis transfer the tenths to Clarius Pbebo And Diti heads, Z? tranfmitte lufnina Father:
Accepted by chance, when Latium wants to be different errors jppuliflfent, in Cutilienfi Lacu They found Infula alive; this By a miracle, I will discover these faiths they learned the pra-di&as effe, and vaftatifque The inhabitants of Sicily were to occupy the region tenth prey: partly fruitful refpon- the smoke of Jpollini was made, and he inherited it ScSaturno ara, cujusfefta They named Saturnalia today there is no lake in %eat ino dtftritlu, who fedforfan just as the waste from Lake Va we said demons, that continent ac- chalk, from time immemorial he is dying to swim. In what true place Cutilias, five Cotylen city together with the last name of the lake once con- ftiffe ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI Amiter son
let us think that topography will teach. And there was the last city of the Sabines berribramam, Amiternum I will describe her here in a few words, whose fatness it was not far from the fountain of the Father which today they call Tcfcara; they live fall into this and that day: not his far away on the bank of the river among the fountains his, Aijmlam Vrbem, near the town Ium, whose name is S. Viclorinus, V. a thousand pafluum, from Aquila in plane mountain village They are CluVerius tefte remains: of the great buildings, of cloisters, towers, and theaters, so that not folum at tpvifcosAmiternmn fue- the glory of the riches, fcd pofte- ris times, Chriftiana: already of faith in the light of intru&um, because of the many Cbrifti of the Martyrs, who died in this place I was a fan for the name of Chrift they spilled, famously. in St. Victor Martyrologio Nonis Sept. pnueB violin nus Mar- rtni Marty fis, who fanftity and miracle urmptf. a famous case, the city of Amiternx They are held in Ecclefia of the Roman College Soc"' JESUS, corporaSS. Martyrum, who Amitemi fub luliano pafli, gloriofl They have obtained the crown of martyrdom; fed from Hifce see the fufius act in the chapter on the origin nor the Anieni. Below Amitcnium to o&o thousand paf- I was on the right bank of the Aternus, from I will return to AquiU, which is three hundred thousand Furco-ribus is gone mumopp fpedtantur, each way, this way and that way the Furconius day remains nornen, from here not far away was another town of In- Terocreia said. I am sorry, says God Nyftus is a village close to Tieati Interoaea heterocrea, Sc frigid: water; to Cutilia; pp. which is indeed still the name of the village today Inderdoko keeps. But to return to Cutilias. we turn; which "Dionyftus amplifies he will write in my words, that too here I was afraid to interfere. So this is about Cittdia will recede. Cutiiu- Septuaginta Hadia d Reate is clear lumdt- 1lri, s fita montem. by no means from en Lake four acres in length
Or, native Z? full of perpetual waves immenfte, as it hinders, of depth. what has something divine clorue facrmii mdigciue autumant, isr cir- with this crown I gird no man to paint finmt, inacceffofjue ferVant them laces, nifi cunwtata facra pofl bienniuni they perform a recurring ritual for them, and his small inflator was thrown into the graves. She a meter has pcdum, ncc more than water washes my feet usually it flows, sometimes with another wind pushing grass in it He came, fiVe carici, that efi Vimi- Some of them were abfimilefimulque dumi not great, rcsfanefupra their captive, who are unacquainted with ndturd contcmplations, and by no means inferior. r Tf J T r r Cutllll. fuiiie, because the emperors were deceived here by Af, s let them take it, even though it was from the grave of death rint Vefpafiano For, as he says; Ve- fpagianus seized with disease, not indeed gout He was extinguished by lightning in the waters of the Sabines, which they call Cutilias: of which fic fcri- bit Suetonius in the life of Vefpafiani: Con- I have never been tempted in the Campania of Mars The city was re-fparunic with light motions and protests He wished to do it every year, he asked cumfuper urgent 1'aletuJinem creberrt inofrigida aqiue ufufinteftina Vttiaffetjiec from the confutude mu- neribes he would hear lying there suddenly to defeSlio- He said, "I have not washed you, the Emperor. having to die, and while he was he trembles, extinguishes the intermanusfublc1ants Among the other towns of the Sabines counted too {u. emnt FalacriumSc' The forum of Decius, whose wild authors determine between the towns of the Matrix, ScCiVitaDucale, commonly called; other times ro Foruli, Teftrina, Fiflerna, Titinum; if they go beyond the limits of the Sabines, so also a certain right to be omitted to be Nurftam iijittn. OLD NO JSlrVTi- Nurfiam, however, in this place, I will prifcam ti Vcfpa-tefte Ptolomxo Sahinorum federn, no we married a priest. fuitharcnul not at the time of the wisest men celebrated; fiquidem country fuiffe it will be clear from the fruitful ones. Suetonius in Vefpafiano: Titus, in- cjuit, Flavius Petronius at Hel vetios He died the day after his wife Vefpafius died to two of her books, mtorum ma- jor Sabinus to the capital of the city, mmor VilUVe. Vefpavianus to the leadership of each pro- pal2, cefiit Polla Nurfue of the honorable race born, her father was Vefpafius Pol- V U M L A T I U M. i3j lioncm i where Suetonius says, not far Tiurfid, of the race of Nurfina of Vefpafi Ipradium's town was established, where: Ve- ffafia was said; Locw, he says, efMM now a mile from Nurfiapoletus a place on the mountain called Ve- fpafia? , where the majority of Vefpafiors tnenta extant, tnagnum indtciumfplendoris Famtlia gr Vetuflatis This city rose and Senediili ennobilitata, ceternamphibino- He has gained glory by threats, of whom he may see Le&or Hifloria noftram EuHachio- Mariana C A P U T III T)e rjMontibm, Foniibm, Fluviis SabinorUm. Gloomy mountain Crypt Sibyls. Ifiellus mountain part of the Apennines, yfffSj! Narem fluYtum fat. notum gives birth Piinim: Sabini Veli- we are joined by the lake, the Rofcides the Nar river drains them from the hills, te Fifcello labcns Varro rer. burst i. QVium fetnen around Fifcellum jr Tetri- cam mountains slowly cffe, about quarttm Ve- with a place in the Book of Origins Cato htec jcnbit: In Soracri isr Fifcello Caprafe- rte are aocnos Tetricum tnons is one of the horns Apptmuni; I live in the catalog of mountains, It is the mountain of the Sabines, from which Virg. Who taunts the horrid rocks, mon- and fe)erum And they worship the cafeteria. Of whom Servius says: Terricus, in Piceno afpcrrimm, whence trifieshomines we eat the gloomy, and the mountain of fever, proper name montiseflfficutatripo fire, today it is commonly called Monte a negro, just as it is today Monte dt S. the rise of Farfari bile I am not ignorant of other mon to put in the field of Nurfino, today la
Grotta della Sibylla shouted: they say for there, in a deep cave, a stream I see Sibylla ha- bitafle, accolis refponfa dedfle; verily this has no foundation there, as it were, before Albunea aimNur- let the fine Sibyl confound; in whose radius food water meet driven by waves, in which Manes and the soul of men sometimes to appear chattering. let's leave fed these stories. There were also other mountains, which Po-Cmgms the ancients call them Grgra-, which they we are in the middle of the Appenmian field we join Cantertus Mons, Varronele, and Canterius in the Sabines, as I am a non-fuifle mo" cenfeo, quillum, quihodieAtae It is called Lioneffa, which we find to be used And in many places it is uncultivated, so also safe and convenient it affords housing. But the mountain, MuteU which Frontinus Mutela, thousand pafTuumowzddiiTitumdictit, I another I do not mean that the mountain of January Commonly known as Mount Gennaro, from which: pious mention to you In the Region of the Sabines, we said to end the nonsense, five Sab'notff-: are more famous: rivers with fountains to those from whom they derive their origin; And they are Vclinus, of whom it has already been said; Teknm yValgo Teranos, who at Heath Teionius; Cladts roman rumad Taxon fly time winter Fl. Farfarus fl. Ovid Met. AlliaFl. roman rum defeat from the French accepted ctithrK. A T H A N A S in Velinus therefore Ficolphus tom. c. no. Rutilius Con- ful Marius' close futtm legate lent to him, whom afttduo admonishing, delay in the war would be useful, Paulifperin A soldier must be trained as a soldier; He despised thinking that he was acting deceitfully, and in inftdias Marforum is untlerjum ag- I was careless and threw the army under him ipfe Conful occtfus, that many nobles inter- fetli, he was the father of a thousand Romans the arms of the bodies of the slain conference of Marius Legate Telonius He brought it forth alive, and destroyed it in Tefttmonium He drove away; about which river and its course see FTtmella ftuVtrn is, dc quo fupra we have mentioned, today Aia, the sources of which are near Cafferia the town which today is called Afpra, eff we have told the fool. Farfarus, whom he calls Fabarim Virgil is the leader of the Sabines; who They will drink Tiber and Fabarim. Where Servius, Fabaris also ipfe, per Sabinos tranftt, is Farjarus dtciturjuxts. that of Ovid: And amcena: Farfarus Narve took the precipice, that dark Farfarus undce. Today it is called Farfams Farfa, from which Monafterium Ord. St. FSenedicli, Farfa, has the name of the market, and ar- which way of storing antiquities the cleverest who from the mountains of Apruti rum, the rise of Farfam by long windings between the Tiber and Eretum. Jllia the river of the Sabines, which Livy herewith defcribitl words. Adundecimum a stone to meet the Gauls is a river Allia, from the mountains of CruHumen flowing through the channel, not far below Via Sala- riam, the Tiber river is mifcetur and it is that river which is near the Eretus in The Tiber flows in, not so much the reputation of Gallo- of the Romans, than of the Omanis rum infamy with the first celebrated. to laugh for the father of this Gaul, the Senones, the Omani army to inter- They destroyed the carnage. Cicero to Atti II K I R C H E R I when he died The elders, he says; The Allienjis made the funejliore dtem effete cowardly, qttamurbiscapu Plutarch de to those men in M. Furio Camillus; As soon as the Gauls left the Senones Vttatem agris Jitis, Clufium Hetruria: opptdum they fell; Rome is three The ambassadors, who would advise the Gauls, to they would die by fighting; on the contrary the right of the winds advanced into the battle, the leader He killed Senonus, whereupon the Gauls were moved asked for the surrender of the legates, and did not obtain tts went to Rome, the army to cut off the hand at Allia's river, dteisCalend. Aug. those days among the wicked the relatws diclus; Where is he from? 'Poet femper infaufti is inaufpicati no- minifhWmfuit Virg. Ouofque fccans mfauftum interhtit Allia's name
Silius: The mayor raised the alarm in despair Other banks. KannK, And damned by the Roman gods Alliafa you know Slandufius is the source of the explanation of Bljndufia Candace, praised so much by Floraiw, who lived in the region of the Sabines fastens, at this point often I will give Horace had two villas, one, as the fuprji defcripfij Tiburti- for the other Sabine; of which Sueto nius in his Life: (V, says, Hora- tius, utpltirimum infecefu ruririsfui neither, nor Tiburtini, and his house oftendi- there about the lake of Tibur; Sabina Valde delectable, than those who work harder Vttiis prefers Why Vallc, he said, permuted tem Sabina diVttias operoilores Sc elsewhere: Nilfupra I will catch the gods; nor a powerful friend I am asking more generously, The only Sabines were happy enough. Satifque fe rich and blessed prxdi- cat, because of the unique Maxmrtein fund received by the Sabines. and this function while the fufe will write in the epift. ad Quin&inm; cimm confulas: He was a neighbor before the day O E T U S NEW Pnedius Horatius, the source of Slandttfius crowded with pleasantness, whom Oda he will write in these verses: fountain Blandufix fplendidior Vttro, I am sweet and dignified, with endless flowers, Tomorrow you will be given a bath,
you Ld. tiitm. He hesitates VilUHa- rationing Wise Cuifrons turgidtt horns first of all, Friday born Enjoy it. TSlam will infect you with colds "Kubrofianguine rhos LafciVt the foboles of the flock. You are burning with fire, the heat of the fire It kills to touch'; lovable bush Feffis Vomere bull Prebes isrpecori 1ago. May you also become a noble fountain, Me saying caVts immediately put down Rocks, whence they speak Lympb. e defilunt tta. The poet perceives the beauty of this place tus, he promises a factory in the Sabine field, where the village looked up to Mount Lucretius lem Vfiicam Scholiaftes in this place He said: The mountain of Lucretius is from the Sabines, and Vftica is the name of the mountain of the valley. He remembers tcfluVti Digentice, together with the vico jun&o by the name of Mandela. Ouid should lessen his cares, and return what he had a friend Why should he be quiet, and sweeten his honours? the light Is it a difficult journey? VtU Me every time it refreshes me You want, . That Mandelaif, wrinkled with cold pay Ouidfentireputas? What do you believe, my friend? to pray f Digentia riVus is ex&andufia fuam ori- smoking gin, and Mandela is a villager M L A T I U M. adjacent to the stream; Where is the river here? let's see. CluPerius with Blon- I give putateumrivum eff Digentia, who between Farfarum and Galantinus, who dic lio dcl is said to the Sun, Sc from rising to the occafu flows into the Tiber; village fuiffeeoinloco, qui hodic poggio Mu- it is called retto. But as the whole Ho- ratiana: town; exaggerate VacunasJ I say Villath MttemMonteLicre-lai tili whom AnaftaflttsinVita S. Sybeslri Digemh he calls his mother Lucrettus, from the rear of Mon- Mamka tis Soraclis there is the same village in which today the village go Monte Libretti it is fat fub j urisdi ion of the most famous family; Romance of Sancla Cross Is this town in a light de- preifoque faxo pofita quxFflica say- Uflica m. Digentia Wlw flowed through the valley, which Mandela was irrigating the village, according to the map it will be clear; somewhere, I think at Digentiamflu- rfce, dequofupra The healthiest waters of the Slandufiifont fuiflfe, ipfe teftatur epift. to Quin clium, where perhaps the fit tem fertility rumufumdefcripfit, medicinals also He praises his abilities in these words: is also suitable to give a name to riVo, as nor Thracian colder, nor purer to roam Hebrews A useful fool flows to a weak head H latcbne sweets, also, fi credismtz- don't Jncolumem tibimepr. tfimt September busbork And this is about the region of the Sabines let them hurry P A R S jr ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI P A R S IV Of the Kingdom of the Volsci, of old that in him the cities are founded. C A P U T I T)e, &finibu-s. Atio Volfcorum Region We have come to the same conclusion, i that Tarqumiws Proud the first to ex- He made a fight with the Latins, and to Latium
numbered, the terms of which are From Occafu has the Rutuli (whose metro- the polis of Ardea) Aftura, Antium and Circeos; From the rise of the Samnites; from North Mon- I know the Algidum, and whose city DMfio mine; A of which of fcorum. the maritime towns of Formix, today, Mola, Cajeta Fundiqux are still names they retain Martianus Capellal. La- of the ancient czTiberi Circejos of each He was offered five thousand pajfus at any length, so thin by biting the roots of the Empire; colonies mutatisjtenuere others other times Abo- Woods, Pelafgi, Arcades, Sicily, Au- Runci, Rutuli, isr beyond the Circejos Volfci, Ofci, Aufones, We name just Latius ad Lirim river The towns of this celebra- ra beautifully recites Pliny c. An- of Colonia, Aftura river (jr Infula, the river Nymphatus, the Roman hermitage, Circei: from the Circei is the Pomptine Swamp; the town of Anxur, the language of the Volfs a word And indeed of Antius of Aftura, Clo- ftmfjrcefvs in the first book of this work, we have done the fufe; but of the other cities Volfcorwn Ofcorumque, however we say one and the same nation then we will proceed as before concerning the Volfcorum the origin of the language mouse Whence the origin of the tribe of the Wolfs Crigo Vollco. xerit, it is controversial among the Authors, because he had nothing to do with the rest of the Latins What do cities have in common? I do a careful comparison of the Author rum between faith contenders, God co, hofce the peoples without doubt or a fPeucetio son of Oenotris, yo&Aufones ex- in this place the furs should be fixed, or Sicanos a Pelafgis Aborigines in 5M- tino Sabinorum Agro Latwque profliga- tos here reftitifle, Volfco Duce, from whom The name of the region was acquired, Sc Dionyphim already quoted fxpe fxpius teaches apertc But the idiom of the Latins Volfci Lingui they differed, that was no surprise to anyone Lzi guarum fpecics exvariorfi peoples arising from the migration of nations it is unknown whether from the remains it is clear that there is no need to relift different tem from the Latins dialeftum, nor Grace, nor Lathtit at all appropriate, pro- Ximatmen Sabhiit had the Wolfs. For as Pompeius Feftus aif: Sublicium a bridge called fuifje a Volfco's outstanding local rum The same, in almost all ancient com- Mentarii fcribitur Obfcum for Ofco, nt. in the story of Titinius V. Qui Obfce ZrVol- fce chatter; for they kill in Latin. Cun&i ferc the old Authors, who de Linguus Latin; they originally created it Of Greek origin they effete, fubfcribunt: fiquidem Aborigines, five Pelafgos, the first Italian colonists, Grdtcos fuiffe, no one cTontrovertit, 5c confe- let them have a common tongue Contribute to the migration to Italy it is indubitable that he was then a barbarian in need OLD NEW LAT The language of the natives; commifta, huge He contracted the decay of corruption. La- the old tins, too, of fumma words Wolf Imgtta ex Grace r Ladna corrupt penuna laborers, from the neighboring Greeks infinitafumpfifle, so certain, that some also wrote Latin I used the same language as Greek, little changed by the ciation; the truth about Hifce confulcndce prxter Dionys. Ha- liquefied the triftes of Verrii Flacci, or Tompeji He was born at Paul the Deacon, who ex They were a huge wreck. Tlinius is also to be seen of hCoention of letters, Sc Scaligcr in Varro, who you have a complete list of Latin names and of words, which the Greek language they make a fool of the Catalogue. don't and therefore the doubt will spread to me, Lati- for most of the language was derived from Greece fufcepiife I add, however, from both Lingux mifcella so much greater heart ruptela fecutala fuiife, how much Lin- gux were more different, so much so that hardly in the old Latinx Iingux dial&is ve- let the idiom of Gracia appear mats And such were the language once upon a time Sabina, Volfca, Ofca, of whom I wrote mouse, some of which terms ad Greek origins can be translated: I give them their own idioms, and from the Latins greedy aifumpta Sabina first in The roots of Volfcam and Ofcam were taken,
Voifc Terentius Varro l. IV, de Legi- the bus thence Cafnor Ofcis Volfcis fenex a Cafco, who is ancient to the Sabines; family the matter also of the Bruttiis fuiffe the language Vol- fcam Ofcam, Feftus teaches, whence bilingual calls, that Grnece Ofce Ennius tells the Bruttios to speak folly. Volfcos and Ofcof were therefore deterred let us the people dial&um in Sici- It is clear from Feftus that it extends to each other; The dialectic of the Volfcorum and they had nothing in common with him The Latin language, Titinius the poet tuftifllmus, fupracitato verfu do- say: Who Ofce isr V 'olfce chatter; for In Latin they are dead. Hence the Volfci and Ofci Martcm say, ces ufurpA the lake you
Mamers, tefte Fefto l. i x. Mcddix vlf" Magiftratum, thus Ennius: g Medicus was captured there, and Mamers was killed. altcr Meddis Hunger of Ofcis, in the same, fervent; Fe1' Whence he desired a servant of the Latins, as Varro delivers of Leg. Hocpa&o from Fcftino- tation l. ult. The tongue of the hooves is the hooves; He makes a ring; Vcja lauftrum, va w Lady, I will punish you, Ti Maras. then Iolidu, Majtus menfem Mar-Pipatio. that DaliVummknum; fitpit, quic- what; Ttarafig, 7tiri? , Okcpetora, mi Whence the four-wheeled Chariot of Paores. rum Whence Strabo tefte, of the lustful The Ofcor dialect remains at %oma- we, who are fed up with their terms in Scenes Poems, and fables there My registration is not so long ago from Sicily Father Alids So- the noftrx Priest of the company, whose words and names with none of those who to the development of such inscriptions lean down, he would understand, tell me to be given, as Scumdili- let us examine the nation, I found the matisftylumfapere, &ftatim that which was, the priest of the Wolfs of runile epigrapheneflefubolfeci; Since names and words neither to Latin nor they would approach Greece, fed the med what they held between the two. incri- but this is a choice. 2TENIZ KAAINIS 2TAT- TiHS NUMBER OF MAPS NI-MS AHIIS MEAAIS OYnSNS EINEIMTI2S TO MA- MEPTINC AIUIEAAOYNH Ig KOPO. This is the record that we in rigor, at the end of any paraphrase, of the names of the hence from the oldest authors supported by the confidence of the collectors, translate the fic tamer Gg Generophe Infcrift Votfea lin- gtta in Si- eyelashes A T H A N A S I A W aOT3. Ah well Pometia Volfcore mctropolis
Generofe IQtlini Stattiet Domime (pometU, Kympbtefacra Magiftratus Vpfenthms who presides over Mars, the war cat I was married to Apollo. I explain the fmgula. S TENIS- the strength of Ofeis to pretend, teaches in exoterkis, and that aGrtcodetivatring fortisjfive but that name was fubftantive, five adjectives, certainly nothing else fignL it seems to be more like strength than strength KAAINI. Proper name of the Goddess: whose fxpe at Ariftopbancm, Pin- I will undoubtedly be led away by beauty. TATTIH2. Nickname coffee is given, and the same lignifies, as Stative, in the same way that Ioleum Statius also they call, certainly to some place aftri&um as a Genius and guardian of the place, and A ripper. M A P A. indicates the lady for by this word they marked the Lady The Wolves, as from the Hetrufci are given Bread tooDominamvo- care Maras, from the shores of Pcenici Tlaut be taught, forfan by the old Pbmiicum lin- gua, qusvere Chaldaicafuit, deducl: o stymo; for the Syrians once upon this day (pbanices di&i, by Mar or mor Do- the man, but the lady Martha they pretend H OMETIES Pometia, which; vetuftiflimafuiturbs, metropolis Vol- fcorum, to be said as desired, as T4ri- Stiperbus with wealth and power against the Wolves He destroyed the tent, from which he went to this and that the day of the Interpromontory Field cejtim Tarracinmn feu Anxur, swamp they are called Vometini, to use a little I want you to deliver me. Incolx was defeated by this Suefa Auruncorum, qua: Suefa Po- metia, from the south of the Wolfe it is said, they fertilized, tefte Dio- njfio AHII2. Primavox I K I R C H E R I by the unskilled hand of the Scribe of the same letters AHII2; id eftNympha: divinejhic aute errorfse- occurs in ancient inscriptions
now omitting, now adding, now transferring greedy letters; I was literate. seems old worn by the times, fuiffe. A H Divinar, facrx, from Grcec tfio? ME A A Ueddix, Ofca feu The Wolf language is the same as Magiftratum to pretend, a fupra proved by Ennius it was Yn2 ENS. Eft river in ofjms irrigating pos, who on this day and on that day Vphens is said, and fcaturienf cx monti- bus Setinis, near Tarracina in the sea devolves, about which see CluVerius of Latium, 8c of the Wolfe Region. EINEIMTHSTO. Hrc the words, as far as I can gather, are the same they are, and aiiqrigeniftis, wherever you are, as Maujfacus teaches in the Exoterics, prefect they were pretending, Greek h)iqfJL( easily can be brought down, if you believe, forfan, here, U[X. , for what you would say, for here the cvifflsro presides; fed this mine; are a conspiracy. M A M E P T I N C. The voice is Vol-JMamm, fce language? , which war, or Mars they expressed, what would you say, for here Voifomm. next to Mars, five warlike matters; Ma- for the language of the Volfee merits Mars we learned to pretend, we learned from Feftus; Whence, name from Vowvicinismditurn, quafi you would say, because of the turbulent movement, Mar- tial A IIE A A O Y N H. ApoUini, cor- break all things, so as to be done in old age forms of language. O K O P O. Married, and it is Fat; origin they are called foox-oty all those who are the same florida; they are of age, and are called spouses, a mutual, which they enjoy permanently, the family rite And OLD NEW LATIUM. And from this it is clear, another fenfu of this infregistration I don't drink as much as I drank falvo also of expert teachers judgement. Indeed, this Nymph Srivlw ngj KctAivlw for strength the beauty of the Nymphs a mere record of Pometino the Magi
brought to Ufentes like Apollos spouse cet, which he had already taken from Pometia eager exile none-in Skilkm ap- I will start the fur for this Iapis, his ho- nori&memoria But already prophesied for us let's get pregnant C A P U T II T)e Volfcori towns JVediterraneis. Pomecia Snefia Volfco he stumbles tSpidum We went to the jamfupra, Volfcormn strong and mighty in strength the region from the Tyrrhenian Sea from the east, to the Marfos, and adLacum Fucinum exSeptentrione ad if I and from the south to the Aufones wwzcoj, extend the boundaries of the fuos; of which I have already mentioned a few, and as far as possible terit, we will act in short words, lest any how omiffiffe we appear here. So I turned to the North they end with Marforum Region, how did you come to Hermcis Tarquinius Su- conquered Perbus, together with Pometia Suejfa Volfcorum whose manubiisTwi- plum I0Y1 Latiari in Monte Albano exd- he died For his colonists, the Jamexules Sueffa Auruncor migrated beyond Lirim runt, of which more in the following. He just met, the last on the road Cornubiu Latina Volfcorum town Caft -jSmum, A clear city of the Latmos, according to Strabo d. says, the ninth, today the town of S, orders I was told chr. Germani diclu mmComobwDiY Benedi- with the commemoration of the nobility; Quod as once inhabited by Nymphs The countryside had been dedicated to Caffin; itzad Sanfl, Blessed is the advent of idols &is aris, in gloriofiffimamfacrofan&i He escaped from the See of the Benedictine order; from by which, as if from the first Mo- naftica: Religious woman, from where which I gave But the most famous men came out. Cmioh" being admired by Sandiffimus CaCuenCs. PatnarchaeWzc-? oibidemgeftis om- with these starches we shall remember, the only thing we can say Ordmisfcdes, in the altiffimo rhontefi- then he has a furrow, und aTulminibus especially those rushing into it mfeftatur Inillocella St. BenediSliid- shown here his tower, of an enormous height; Bible local store of Manuscripts I don't remember seeing myself anywhere more abundantly. Ad- lies a little below, another Ccenobiolifabri- bnca, in which, as it were, in the facrumr quenda retreat, from the affairs and cares of the Order He loved to receive the poor S. Patriarchafe, S. TgaiuS qua S. lgnatmm Societatis fundato-
matter, to God's wines; the influence of grace; more abundant to participate in the folly, to, for fehci Ordinis a fe inftituti fucceffuDeo fupplicandum, ferecepifferunt, where and one of your associates died mother, between Angels He knew from God to fly away. Di- in the neighborhood of altiorimontein the rude nations are still to be seen, who tur Apollmis TetnplumimSe, Benedictius had destroyed us. From this joke by S. Qermanum he soon met the oldest Atina in the mountain at tefte Virgil: Aiim potent Atiaa wU tumJEnete, powerful, aTumofyailo-' wRegeinfuccurfum concra Latino- the King was summoned; they were at last The colony of the Omanis under Claudius Nero it was done Atina, with ten thousand puffs, Sora Sora, (also a colony of the Psomanians; at the time of Hanbal's slaughter you i4o A T H A N A S I these colonists, failed to the Samnites: defeated at last it was then from M. Vxtilia, Cn. Coff. and Samnipbits kcuripev no va colony was given to him, Li- tefte Today, the most famous leader surname: Pontificia: Bomompa- obfummam in Republi- cam Chriftiana of the Pope's best Gregorius XIII merits aR. egeHifpaniarum given to the unfaithful; has a pet the weakest, the wildness of the plains me; to praise Ctcero in fuis tpiftolss pro- fequkur I climbed the highest mountain has a neighbor, from a neighboring town, Mz- MonsSo- te di Tefcbiofolido difium, from which Cry- rdiiia. tjais dcportant in the xftive season. De this mountain with more wonder gna be reported to the ear to be affected by them; and that in the last month hearing the violence of those who came to the entrance Ram, I have known the true truth; for so many in the alley of the mountain. the fury of the winds experienced fum, as with the hands of the Counts "and leaning on the foot, so as not to be blown by the wind. if he broke away, he had to go on; they drove that you count not fme fumrno cir- to the detriment of the adjoining places, whole herds of goats I slept with the stolen fuiffe. Elu&atitan the plain of Molii gurguftii to feed herds of cattle on the mountain, armcntif the oxen and the cows convenient for cleaning We stumble upon the aur. where from At midday, the most important thing is to mark the mark the earth is clear, it was given in abundance; From Bo- rca LacmFncini and far-reaching expor- you will redo, from the rest of the high-flying areas the yoke of the mountains, and the wild beasts ktibula, with which the mountain plains con- it was closed, it was permitted to fpeft. Accelerate The mouse finally climbed the icy mountain with the most wonderful art of Nature the future The mountain is in a state of inversion cone, excavated by the fire of a hurricane, in a hurricane at the last bottom a huge hole is seen, by which rain: &nivesvelutiperin- funnel (somewhat in depth) teratx Miraculous monttt confusion cry out palm they lead icy I KIRCHERI cry far and wide the ptam of the mountain fubje&am are unloaded j enter as a little below in the eamaditus it is clear that when we enter, the whole as much as the prxgrandes of the Criftallini the mass, hanging from the arch so much ice below we find the Dantia, like the whole of Italy, to Muhk to make a supply of ice and snow you would say poffe The purest inftar Cryptalli is limpidifliima, from which fta- then cups of all kinds are made; enter that the wine should be poured directly into It is imbued with coldness, so that it scarcely breathes can bear, as in the same place we ex- experience taught. Eft in the neighboring mon- tis fummitate a certain meadow, in with which I cut off the flowers of the whole year, because of the infi- a kind of air that will pollute, temper, col they are called leagues. Flmen Liru city al- shining not with other snowballs there is a mouse Jger Soranns gave a great deal mni, exterra: motu, annoi paflus it is, the earth is in many places chasms mistrustful But this is about Sora fat dida fint As they went, they eagerly turned to the west the town met with three thousand people while, Ducispalatium, than they commonly call lam (Ifola). this I Whatever CluVerius fancies against, Vete-
I am making an effort at Interamnus; for here The river split into two like arms divided the lnfula on both sides in the hori- das catadupas prxcipitituit a little below which the united arms, having been discharged in the name of Relidu in Lirim, one with him name re vius, curfum fuum I turn to Campania is advanced; chre fane Cicero's book on the Laws he will describe the fub form of the dialogue, Atticus, Sc Mark's interlocutors. Atticus: Vif- lest, says he, because isrfatisjam deambu- wide efl, and the beginning of another thing to say to you fumendumeft, locumutemits, ir as much wool as there is in Fibre (for that opi- nor to that other name eSk)fermoni reli- by which we shall give labor. Marcus: when I speak the truth, my brother gtrum so bye- VillaCi- wax OLD NOV the country of the Germans, tiquifimafiunws, bicfiacra, hicgcnus, bic of the elders, there are many Vcfitgia, some more f binc You see the town, M now qutdcm effttautius. built by his father's father, who with If the health is weak, it will be almost tetatcm in letters But boc ipfo tn places, when The ancient VtVeret, ir in the ancient fashion, will be small Villa, useful Curiana wSabinis inbac mefcito ejfie born Atticus But Vcntum in Is it infulan? This truth is more important; tit for boc quafii roftro findttur Fibre- nus, i-T divided xqually into dtias parts, the sides 'btc alluded: and rapidly dilapftis ciio it is united in one, is only combined, qttodfatis nfodkiC paUHrit of the place where I effieclo as if that is, the work and the service, as this noftram would make the faith addtfputan- at length he rushes into Lirim, if Quajiin patrician family Venerttamittis obfcurius name, Lirimcjue multogeltdto- rem reddtt; ncc entm another boc frmdius When I reached the river, I was quickly overtaken by many things, so that Idpoffiem tcntare vixpede. So here it is let this Infiula be written down, as of her there should be no doubt, the profuse face which still cer- it depends But jamadalia let us proceed. Here Fregelit, from the most florentiil city, cumzomanis failed, destroyed, ad a village already in the time of Strabo return It is now five from its ruins extruclum fPons Cor1us town efifti- mature; Silius: And how to weave a smoker ianta Frcellce cbe O But in order to go back to Cafinus we are wretched; From Mount Cafiinus I cast the mask tendnctibus, met the noble city Aquinas, the rise of Dili Tboniie Aquinas the cclebenest Melpha flttVio irrigates; to whom not far away on a high mountain top fittpcsfiuca, commonly 1(pccafiecca; where in hune ufquc diem Tbo- nne oftcnduntur Further progress Arpinum occurrjt Arpinum M. T. Ctceronts Dturiz Cl- r Fregeila: tf- Aquinas the city Rocca feces pat ccrouis not a false report of the births of C. Marius they are boasting about it, as in this one and that one day due to Ctceronts of the municipality com- popular and honor the three letters M. U M L A T I u M. i4i T. C. profignopublicofcribant Eu- February in ChronoW. Cicero He was born to Arpini, mother Helvia, father Of the horsemen of the order of the Wolfs in general See Plutarch in the life of Cicero, Valer. Max. z, c. of Caius yiario Arpinate: says C. Ma- It is a great fortune for everyone for he is in need both of the body and of the hand My mighty strength was exhausted. Arpini ho- noribus judtcattts tnferior, Qjuefturam He dares to ask Romx; paticntid detnde The repulsors burst more into the Curia, quodii He came. ltaque cx Mario so bumili Arpi- nor, so tgnobiltKomx, as if fasdi giving a candidate, that Marius, qtti mjubegit, I need Yogurt first cttrrum egtt, who he destroyed the rum five times Conjul. A Sword Interamnd did not catch the wind thousands of pafiu. If Sora is fpedatur ad lreva. Ca- Caftrum St. John's Street in which ViVtts Tbomas '"am a refugee from his parents, his inReligion the goal of entering with his teeth, he was held as a prisoner; where he may have unchaste womanhood abaclam, virginity blessed flower by God's grace through Angel the light encircling his loins, in
He has gained the merit of an excellent deed. It is seen not far from here in Tttrris, within Tums How Celestine the Pope, poft to abdicate Cremata; then the Pontificate of Boniface VII I Pohtifically included the last day of my life he died 5"equitur poftea FruGnoi. In the first book we mentioned the city more ancient than some of the Wolfs, others will write to Hernicus, from both po- now conquered by the plague, now recovered. Fruftnoncm {he rides Ferentinum, with which Fercnti- elsewhere, &monti afExx Verult, where it is said there still exftare the fepulchrum of S. Marice Veruia: . Salomcs, the mother of St. John EtangeliBa, I will go there after having a son obiifle, reports the Archives of Verulenfium. Anagni's lust for the old woman Anaii is aroused. Hernicorwn city, the country of Bontfiacius VIII: where from Callorttm's army, Sciarra Du- At length he was led away into captivity Cora i A heart cxtruSa. z4i A T H A N A S I %oite in Caftro S. Angeli's destiny ccffit. Now that you are in order, proceed on your way cuti, &cStgnla, and other towns elsewhere defcriptis, Coram Velitras, haudig- we landed at the noble towns of the Wolfs, of which that from Corace, the brother of Tibiirti Catilli the founders of Tiburis, mmfuit, years before con- riches, to which the source of great waters next to it, from which you will pay a large sum of money by Aquxduftus pafiim still in Ro- shots were fired across the plains the water bus was delivered, of which see The front Velitra born C. OclaYii OctaVtx the house of the founder is clear from the Scriptures bus Roman hiftoriarum Volfco rum town it is said, tefte Stephen: BjAi] 7roAic IraAiW, gvx, 7Bls'p&i, V -syw ivOTwyMia. m v, n iacT v i rsorop tn fa- Siog. that is, Velitra CiVttas Italia: , Ro- ma baud ampliiis, than Siadiis di- ftow, ideft, by the calculation of his life, thousands of paflfus with a half di- sighing today by eaz4 miles! they are numbered from a populous town it is a source of fruit. Whence first from Ancus Martius, the fourth King of the Omani conquered, then by Martius Coriolanus, those Volfcos, Dwnyfio tefte, with an army He was enthusiastically worshiped, and made a great return prardam, &urbeeorumobfeffa, foffif- that the valley of Cin&a was occupied by God the plains to the assault of the walls He girded himself with faith; of {va pettilence, which in- He has so reduced the number of colts, that scarcely the tenth part of the people. he would have been Then, says Dionysius, suddenly Vol- TMlmtit fcos inltafit pestilence, such as nowhere, nor beans apHlj Qrxcosjteque Birharosfuijfe nar- razed, sparing to no one, con- to no one's control He would fall upon the strong; the magnitude of the disaster fate can dissolve the noble ejusgensur- IeVelitra, which was great in the old days, The fic was then exbaufia, as only a tenth the rest of the population remains, ce. te- I K I R C H E R I rhizotubes extinguished; who buic calamity had passed away fts, dtfolatwnem uncle quequefti, fe O" they gave him the power of the Omani people. They had previously received colonists from Rome. and then again we were sent to Va- the fields were filled with songs. Today, by the way birthdaysEminentiffimCardinalGi- netti is clear, having a field for everything with the abundance of things of necessity fecundum. On the origin of the House of OelaVne, see who derived the origin from thence Hiftoriam noftram Euftacbio-Maria- jEquorum a kind of wedge of clay within Latius vifcera Voifci ada&o ufque ad JEquos ipfos montico- btmi. they penetrated of which in the first hu- We have done the right work with the fat book. From Velitr's turn to the South, SueHi Po- tibus, yrimb OQCurmm SueffctTometice met, a' ruinjB, which; detruela from Tarqumius Super- the most extensive city is still in ruins, of which in the fertile This the town is made TSLorba, mpnti fco- Norba. stuffed with a woolen coat, TSLorma, the source of that source, Nympba di- a lock was formed, from which the river TSLympbauus flowed between Antium and Circeos, in the sea thought the name fumit. Hxc by ALmilius Le- Pido, Appianus tefte, lib. wars conquered, only terror, indignation and brought it to the natives, as it were
with the help of the hand, some mutual wounds they have fallen into the snares of others ran, and stopped the fire at the doors fuddirent, whose attempt was accidental your favorite adjuvit in so far as prsda the fire was extinguished by a sudden fire rite TSLorbam a little poft Setia is made, Snia, ftj Commonly known as Sea Dida, formerly the Op. drowned in the swamps of the Pontine brought thither a colony of Otnans, Or- I read tefte, in the eighth year, I read a poem captured by the French; in the year ditam before Cbrifium Inter and more rare, the wine of Setinum the same was celebrated by Strabo, Horatus, Martial, Juvenal Saty- ra5. Tomorrow Martial XIV. epigr. ua OLD NO Tomorrow the Albans will drink something demonic Pomptine's pendulum with which Setia fpeculates fields Excua the ancients mijlt ab Vrbe cados. He said to her that she was in the mountains go, which is near Pomptine Campos, de with whom he wants a little, men, and the Sermon of Duke Cajetan it is stretched out, and from its mouth tan- than from a certain ledge, infubje- and the swamp of the Pontine plain, in Circe, the mountain of Pontia, and other adjacent that patetmare, profpeciusdaturlonge we beautified The afcenfus of this mountain He is close to you, to whom he is in the way the cochlids frata, to its fumity we arrive at the multiplicity fcaturingine fountains, famous there Old fluYms origin fuam fu- V U M L A T I U M. i43j sends, who wants fifteen miles from Curfew near Tarracina tur, pet quarh ships, feupotius in boats, which they call Santalas, across the river calm mind c5tis, or the banks of the waters, stirred up the most beautiful way of the trees Bris, Setia, and hence Tarracina afcen- it is given and given. But about today as fufifile in the fertile I want SetomantiquiflimaUrbSjPnWwwoc- runs, commonly known as Vipemo; of which they are full the monuments of ancient writings, see collected at ClnVerium. Diftat near here Coenobium, commonly known as Fofsa noVa, in which the Divine Thomas Aquinas while calling the Council of Lugdenenfe return, while the Canticle of Canticles ex- He would be inclined to put it, most of all He died with piety and pride. L I B E R ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI BOOK IV FIELD POMPTINUS this is it Of the antiquity of Tomptini Volfcorum Jgri, and all of them memorable bus, Urbibus, FIuvijs, Lacubus, and finally from Tompina- Rum Taludum, to recall the better rum in a way, with reason attire. P R J F A T I O Efcio fltne quex the hinges of human things Fortune will turn, terminum flublimiores, tantbfempermajores difficultatum&contra S diBionumfcopulos try. How many people don't know? a pore of the marvels of the prayers exhibited by the veriest itaiy in the Pomptine Marshes admelioremfrugemredutlwne A very important business has come. BtmificMh Since then, a long time ago, in this business, which they call Sonification, they did not go out "'dfi' a new controversy between the arbitrators; nis Yiribm far more distant, than they held the clamor; against others it is only gone, as in they would induce it, as possible with valid arguments of reliability They are trying to infiltrate the party by all means. lnhacdifientiumpar- of that Velitattone, while the case was being inquired into, at last, Cardinal Pamphilius admonished said Aftalli, fub Innocent X, P. M. and I will decide And yet I am not so proud of myself, as to conflUkqne with my helpers so lubrtco&plenoaleteoperc quicquamme prteflarc pofie I think, cumtamenitamibi nature is compared, so that no man is more worthy of exifltme, in any way to those things which are of the utmost importance, and which seek the public good, lem dtfiftcultatcm of this pnefient matrix are finally falling off, the genius 1'ires expert.
fcllerit, Or with an impious attempt I confldo praise inVenturum. TSle Verb in adeb intricato negotioprcepsformaremjudicium, or, as he says, nudtt tbeorite only so much I would have defiled anything more unsupported; first of all, the region of Pompeii I led the way to reach and to survey: as I had explored before the whole of the world, the nature, property, de- hence the difcuffts of all antiquities, and fnguhs with them, how difficult flmile argument, in diverfls Europe; I have been offering to the parties for some time now, what is the best way to do it, I would conclude. Ouod is also my reason for this By my thinness I was able to excel in my genius. DePom. ptinis va- yite C A P U T OLD NEW LATIUM. C A P U T I, QuaRegionis Pomptense tumvetemtummodema it will be described. Within him of old Latium clurn, who from the rising of the Sun Ama- hay to the river, to the town of Anxure most famous, China from the south of the Tyrrhenian Sea cejo promontory, commonly known as Monte Circel lo from the West Aflura flowed; from Self in short, the patrimony of Norbanis Setinifjue bounded by mountains, immense and continuous fefpe&andam exhibetilla, to no one of the old writers records celebrated Plainities Pomptina, five Fields 'Pomptinm, from 'Pometia Suefla Volfcorum Colony and Metropolis fic diduSjab am- abundance, pleasantness, a multitude of things as a result, nor the fre- cjuentia, all the back of the starches We recommended courses; whom White Leander the garden of Latium; Halicarnassus najSceus, that the City smokes wine, exquifitiffimi grainen- you, vegetables, figs and all gene- would provide plenty of fruit, hor- guilty and penniless pushes Pliny from the report of Mutiani Three Confulis once lived in the town of then he brings Whose orchards stock, to the Aftura river, in par bounds the region of the West, re- liquid or adMontes, utiliNer&j, N)ra- pha, Sulmo, from the northern side; Sermoneta, Setia, Pontia, from Ortu Anxur, LentuU, Capetite; from the south Circa, Asiura, Cloflra; the rest of the Mediterranean, with no I still do not remember the forum of Appius they ran, or with tenxe motions, or unun- the violence of the times fuccef- fu, as it may be said, he is a pwtacus le. The whole field of two He confabulates the lakes with the most powerful and natives, one rum near the promontory of Circejo, It was said once upon a time that we were full of fish Pometianus from the city of Pometia to the same Pometia Pompti ours town ruminant rittn. Air Pom ptini relative, who it is called gliano. Another "Pontine from the city. 'Pontia fic called Vfenti fluYto Adjacent Amafena, who nevertheless ex I will help the neighboring mountains so I will breathe was broken, so far away that today no pre- beat yeteris, natives of the marshes Moreover, the innumerable prxter with which the torrent tes, which rivers, which from the mountains fim- Pmpti the winds continue to blow, the whole plain watered by four rivers Astura, Nymphdo, Vfente, Amafcno. AHura buying the mountain from the Koran Licking the pometiamqne, at last between The Ctrceum promontory of the ScAntium sea (tk infinuat. Nympbaus from Norbte mon- tibus lacuNympbxo, to whose ra- you will say it is fit, through the Ponietine field pressing the curfew for a long time, finally between Aslur, Circe, the promontory of the sea he will lie down; Flowing from the mountains of Setia ginen na&us, and twelve Amafeno, a thousand fat people ex-Prilernateagro orienteau&us, jux- ta Anxur five Terracina in the sea; to use today, it was necessary. So much; but Hali- camajfeus as the Lacedaemonians, because of Ly- the laws of the other colonies were more closely related qucefituri, while this Iittora presterve- And the ships of the sea were broken, Lared. this one for his goodness, kindness, and kindness i i tim here the result of things as divine-M'- I have conceived a joke for you; omni But others have chosen to live in it Feronia from the things which he produced they called it plenty; Whence poftmo- while the name of Unonis Feronu is given. JunoFe-
For as the gods lead them thither tive role in any way rent, a temple of which there is no obfuscation the swiftness of the tribe of the Paphos from Terracina thousands of difficulties are committed. , in ho- H h knowledge A T H A N A S I Norem Iunonisax loVu then you will bathe at the time Anxure was considered the market place of worship, in a certain fylva, tefte Cornelw Tacitus they are extruxiffe. What I want from Hannibal in returning fpolia- and then it was written by Silius Italicus lib. He will describe it in these words: When Utus desired to depart, he went in Arros Feronia is worshiped everywhere on DiVes I look Etfacer bumeclat fluYiala rura Ca- penalties Vamaefl, intacias longeYt from the origin Fauna CreVtffe in the middle, congefiis diqut gifts I KIRCHERI Immense wealth over time, and money reltclum Innumerable gold folofcfVante palore. Hxc avid minds, barbarous hearts robbery He willed, and scornful of arms dtVum. And here is the short history of the old region fit registration Today, many rivers are overflowing lakes, the same cities retain, prster some inland and some maritime tcmporum's injuries destroyed. True when in the fertile dc hifce fufius fi- to treat the mouse, re- and on the path prophesied to us let's proceed C A P U T II The destruction of the marshes of the Pontinamm tried washed away Circeiiln stuff i' Erteprifcistemporibusforte Aborigines, all this '&JS tra&utn futffe habitation is the most frequent, that is, Z5 the worship of the town, Mutianus ter Conful, To Vlinio tefte, he delivers; I don't know where it is given to fate, as a sudden force; flood floods plains He destroyed the mentioned cities in such a way that indeed fua fua: left of old age rint, so that it is therefore so memorable the event was not a matter of reason between the priests He enumerated the wonders of time Lib. c. in these words: Circeius Once upon a time a certain sea swelled up surrounded, as is believed by Homer, at now on the plain; dere bominum notitix pojfumus Theo- I will destroy the Circassians He puts pieces in that volume, which fcripflt Nicodoro the Athenian magi flratui, quifuit Vrbis nofira quadringen teflmo fexageflmo year. fofl him a year He received Italy: another miracle of Circeius. bium fuiffi Mutianus three Conful prodi- he says It is clear from these words, Mutianus three Confule from ancient times according to a thin tradition, this 'Pometinus field, before wading through the swamps tur, Z3 Urbibusfuiffe inhabited. At- that this is another Italian miracle the light that Tlinitts defcribe, namely A flowery wild country, a city bus crawling fubmerfis with no earun- I will leave him with haste, in the swamp evafiffe the effort No one is surprised it must be seen who is the earth; motion force and livinum, then m cities lub- fubvtnen. you eat, he knows; examples of terror of the movements, which this noftro xvo m di- you turn the world to the darkest parts of the world believable things have happened, demons of fate frant At what time, iftiufmo- God's prodigy happened, to plot Dita seems to indicate that fact: But there is no reason to say that, hence it is concluded: that Mutianus is about the same about the time wearing Confulatus, in which the marshes had already invaded the whole country, not snow from the tradition of the predecessors He remembers the day of the city. court stayable it happened SutChad App ex- ftccsttio Via pis Morlustx- ficCAMtlif. Scunda txjiccaio Cethego Conf. V T U S NEW curious writers of the times only Jatuiffe's miracle is not believable it is a thousand So it should be said much earlier at the time of five terrx movements, five tempe- the flood of floods so famous contigilfe urbibufque deftruT (If you take away the plains of culture fe- with the rapidity of the flowing waters They stayed on the yoke to fend off their tails and therefore the marshes from time immemorial and to Appius that Claudius, who in the year of the city M. Valerius Maximus, V. Decius AfweConfulibus before Cbriftum year, CenforcumC. created by Plautius I do this by reminding everyone, the first to try the way through the swamps
live how &tefte Titus LiYto I. fe- The marshes are finished with a piece of wood inje&o He bragged about it, and from the name before the Appian Way, to use the City from fe He wanted to be called the established Forum Appit. Forfan Mutiani's account of the priest of the place to dare to do so excited And this matter is brought to mind by his genius: huge mound vines, trees, bushes, farms, bundles together raised on both sides of the ramparts ecft j and fic the country was received by the flood within them not for worship only, fed back and forth I took advantage of the opportunity of the emigrants returned True to civil wars, in The ashes of the city were flooded by swamps L A T I U M
Let's work hard, novisbello- tumultuous rum concuffa %oma, Yta vi3ApPi Appia together with the ramparts on the other side de- dnnRut. vaftata, a new flood of the field they are pafli: until litlim Gtfar, damn, from which the Romanx declares: impen- He could, I will note, be a swamp the exfkation is grasped for the third time. So the commentators on Plutarch in juiio Mentans and Setinis tried to divert him cfly and to clear the field, which is many miles long to break through the ramparts with force they took it, and went to Cornelius Cetbegi fulatum, who a year before Cbriftum it was: here with a new auf rr r n foihf and the ancients of the ancients, which with new additions here and there, ftagnant spread the waters far and wide again he stuck Thus the Epitomator of Livy Pomptins marshes from Corn. Cethego Confule, to whom eaproYtncia eVeneratiftccatce, tgerque ex iis flaBtis efl. But the thing is done earthly; infutable Sc with various coffees harmful? , let this work be done by Cetbego a long and unbroken act it remains Indeed, before Julius Geflaris he will be able to catch the agriculturists. And Suetonius in the same Julio Carfare c. Pomptine marshes dcflinate. God of the same Grfare: as Pomptina the marshes duccret the mound, the mound Ytdeli- Appia; Hence Lucan And where Pontinas Yta diYtdit uda pa- games When therefore Yta Appia was very advantageous to effet, and an easy summary of "w! %oma Terracina, and hence Srundujium He will give way to those who are making the journey: There is no smoke of warlike times I have been this way many times during the summer broken ramparts five from Oman to ho- he came and took charge to be given, five from ipfis hips, to of the hands while progressing, fivedeniquead ignify the same work pitch the tent, and finally the plain itws ltaquc Leejar while in the fields at- Augufto that Vta Apbim ardent for reftitution he leans down, fate's fountain of gloriofamoli mina fucceffori fuo Au? uslo incxecu- I left the commandment that 8cpro the greatness of his mind, with which he the abundance which he enjoyed was extraordinary fane preseftitit For the new ramparts ex- stuck, the plains flooded with quali- Jf He recalled his gift to culture. So the old Com- liar Sat: Horace, without ipfe Horatins Auguflo fynchronus infi- Augustine's work is commendable to give fic lib. He sang about the poetic art: Dcbemuf, ttrtit e fixation. ikjshuma- ttaomnes perishable Ofiienfis port Pompti spine ejection Tyberus dtclinatk Mr. Aug fliers divine Auguftie rc state mcrita A T H A N A S I I We must die, both of us; fiVe re- caught The land of Neptune is the sword of the Aquilons aYcet you have done the work; flerilifve dupalus and fit oars He feeds his neighbours, and isr 'graVc ventit trtmy Or he changed the curfew of the unrighteous harvest the river Qmevetuscommentatorhis verbex folds: but only fubdtt, which is not tan- tum lerba bominnmintereant: fiedisr bo- minesisr omniaeorumfia&a, quodtrtbus test samples first of Oftienfi por- you For now the city of Ophtia was Aug. The storm broke through the sea and blocked the embankment the land of Isr was crushed with stones, and the port finished According to Pomptinispalu dibus, which Augustus exfitccaVit, isr ba- He returned the bitables, to mount a military expedition
laptdum isr The third from the Tiber the river, which Agrippa misappropriated VitalVeo is still up to date. And paulopoft: Divus Auguftus two things dtVinas made, as Pomptina paludenr exftccaret isr in the sea to have a co- to carry it, that it might be ploughed: Then the port of Lu- hair munivtt The Appian Way was therefore augmented by ramparts excavated a long pit near viv, like the little water? into it they would leave the culture and the river it would be convenient for travelers the harbor Who all Kircherl fto coartaneus will describe in these words: pro- near Tcrracina, which goes to Rome the Appian way he loved You would fill in a handful of flttVtalibufiques: those who are navigable are the ones who sail the most Enter the Vesperi, the morning of the Earl of Appia. . they continue, jed isr tnterdiu muh naVcs to- Appia; . they will carry rice. But the fuiffe of this foffa; a length of miles, that is, a Foro Appii ad Feronie bus miles from Terracina, ex Horatio fatyra ubiiter fuum in It is clear that he will describe these parts: bora We wash your lips and hands, Feronia, lymph Millta then pranft triaViJtmus: and we will be Impottum fitxis can4entibus An- xur Hifce tpomptitne rmion inftaurators J? crva almost entirely duoiam-, varns xdincns, pontibulque m4j the most magnificent, tefte Dion? 'f extrudes, whose rapidity is still to this day. found at the rise, then at more convenient water diversion, he infested: he with thousands of columns, fire of miles to the travelers convenience and curiosity he dyed the dam; of which four still while I was fighting this region, in- find the logs with the following entries: IMFERAT VA CfESAR. AUGUS Pontifex MAXIMUS THE COURT power X. COS. III. PATRIJE'S FATHER do it CVRAVIT IMPERAT NERVE CAiSAR AUGUS Pontifex MAXIMUS power X. COS. III. . PATRIA'S FATHER do it CVRAVIT What a beautiful fan you found was full of curiosity, when then who will complete the journey, in columns here like stones I will give the tables for the eyes to read 1MPERAT NERVE SAR AUGUS Pontifex MAXIMUS TRIBUNITYAi power X. COS. III. PATRIA'S FATHER do it CVRAVIT IMPEKaT NERVE CAiSAR AUGUS PONTIFFX MAXIMUS TRIBUNITES power X. COS. III. PATER PATRJAi do it CVRAVIT would wear And so the worship lasted as well as Cam- Porum 'Pomptinornm, then Wut Appide; that of the flooding waters as if re- there was a kind of tent in each direction The invasion of the barbarians, who therefore V E T S N O and turning all things, as the Roman All things are also magnificent the monuments of the ancients, Viain Joppia they vexed; whence with fresh waters repeating the ftations, the field again aquammjugumlubeun- the oppressors remain Eficcith Doric Gothorttmm halia Kegem. There I was in Thra- Pairicius about the damage from the marshes Gochoru 'pompttiht regtont lllato lnitructus, ani- mum added to make them up. Work executor was ipfc Decitts lPatricius; cajm keep up the good work bit Cafllodorus lib. z. Ep'a' to make there: Romx Theodoricus to the Senate Vrbis King Decii Yir taaonificut attjtte Patricius Decius tior. cm glortojo about 'jtKjinpoeticam love deVtn- fracture u[f0 pgj}, ofo pirabili, qitod otiviti It was hardly possible for the fub conftlio neflra of piety to be imposed for a long time in the Decennium the manner of Vtcina deVttflantem, foVearum mouth openly promised to shake off that fame Vanity of the poor; how long-term tate licentiie once sea palndcflre poffedit, cultifquc places the enemy pouring out the wave of the deluge, earth-shattering Fylveflri was equally shocked with horror, 'le nourishing fub with liquid fpoliated with berries efi fulum, poflquam obnoxium effe swamps Lleo we wonder at the priest conjiden tia Viruin. utquod dinVirtus pubiica re- ftigtt, manm priVata fufceperit. This one therefore bold labor aggrejfttrumfclau- He has been polled with perfection; as a result
dainnofogurgite, qtiiifuerantainiffa, iiltc- otherwise they would not perish; whence ours near here V U M L A T I U M. part of the fertility pofttdat jufswnes]ne end public authority fttbeat excellent work, but it will be beneficial to the people of Ytantibm You, the Fathers, are bound by the first decrees admumm, as in the following places of the Decade days directed from the Veflro Body, to whom arbttranttbm, quaiitnmfpattirestagnantis iitcurflbus paludeflris tliuVies occtipaVerit, fixts terms annotetnr; to approach fcclioncm proinifJumperVenerit, deliverer let the return of the son succeed, and no one tnde prmfumat to touch something, that so for a long time in Vadenttbm the waters could not be avenged ri: Et Ep'1, Inhuncrinemme- Decius wrote in these words: king of the turtle gg- o6 Vobtsitaqae defderia jttsta betinbus prcejcntt autontatc Concediiuus, utflagnts DecennoViipaludibufqueflccatisfineJifco pofttdeas infoliim rttra rcVocata; nor any I fear the rebtts of Ibertatus qtias Jitb generalitatis tefiimonio abfolvi- mm. Hence also to Jmplifimumfenatum We will transfer the proposals, it is defined now the flpatio of the odtus beautifully tranfeat the domain, qnod cft d fadis gurgititus Vindicatum; for it is fair to every one to prosper work From which it is clear that it was so ingenuum inRemp. attention, Dcciuma Thodoric King, to use so many Auto- the matter of goods so of the whole field to the cul- ture revocatidominum and pofleflb- a little thing This is exftat Terracius still remembers the matter, in co- a kind of light for thirst a list of falsehoods, as here we decided to add DN. GLORIOUS AND KING THEODORICAL VICTOR HAS BEEN INCLUDED A. C. TRIVMF ALWAYS AVG. GOOD REIP: NATVS. CVSTOS yours AND PROPAGATOR OF ROMAN NAMES. DOMITOR- GbNTIVM NINETEEN, VLAPPL, ID IS, A TRIP. EVERY TERRACE 1TER, AND PLACES, QV CONFLVENTIBVS AB VTRAQVE PARTE PALVDIB THROUGH ALL BACK INVNDAVE THE PRINCIPAL. VSVI PVBLICO, AND THEN RITATI VIANTIVUM, ADMIRAL PROVIDENCE GOD HAPPILY REMAINED TVT WORK, NAVITER INSVDANTE, ATQVE PRINCIPAL CLEMENTISS GOOD LUCK DESERVING THE PRINCIPLES FROM PROSAPIA CIORVM MAV. BASIL VC. AND INL, EXPF VRB EXPP EX CONS. ORDER FATHER QVI TO CONTINUE TAN LAM OF THE LORD GLORY by the first THEY WERE BEFORE NQN. white people DRAWN INTO THE SEA OF WATER By ten years whatever t? unctl di- cat? Triponrij dcjcripiio rivation of waters flagrant of that Prifiina Poropti back bone A T H A N A S I For a decade there was nothing else it is understood that these Vfens flfttint, who ccnnoVius tefte Procopius Lib. things It was the day of the Gotbics, which was thousand pafl". slipped near Terracina let it be poured into the sea. Ex-terms there were three waters, And the three ponts from the Emperor Trajan Once he was magnificently built on the Appia. Now the next place was Triponti Yoro Appius, so that he did not end, who Tri- bridge with three shops they give, that is to say, to the town that today Ci- it is called flerna, when it is corrupted, where everything else is by the term, what would you say whatever happens, it is not far from indeabfuiife the ruins of fate are declared Prxterea do- cet registration; Blind Decium, the most numerous ex utracjue Yue Appice parte alveis fof- and fifques excavated, ftagnant in them the water was finally brought down into the sea; the waters of the jury but, as from the last part of the Appit, with the exception of the swamps near Circe mountain in the place where 'KympbaiufluYms, they would unload it into the sea and put it down. in ci- in truth, Yict Appiie part of the DecennoYii five Vfentis ftagnantantes water: by others near Tcrracina Cte, they were to be executed there. Now this was the fourth marsh 'The exliccation of the Pomptines by Tbeodoric Rcge by Ccecil. Dccium Tatricium qua- For almost a hundred years, Traymum has been in need completed At last he tamed and pushed him away %oma Gotbis, with the Emperors in part Constantinople, partly in the West Vague and implacable faiths fortirentuf, at- that so much care of figs; would be left: and to them all reforming the church and government
fent, and so much other things than culture the care of the soldiers would fall upon him; strange there is no breaking and wafting in such a con- the ramparts of the seasons, the plains denuopriftinamilluviempalfosfuiife: with no important manufacturers cam, they continued yearly in this fi- nor will the sandwiches be heaped upon thee, I K I R C H E R I diudurarepoife, us so many extmia Ther- marum Aquajduum, cpxomie they are still fpeted, the injuries of the times Let the records teach. He was therefore the first of the Pontiffs 'Bonifacuis V III, from the Cajetan family, Suh Boni. those who were led as Sermonetani, those of the families there he was fuxftatus, swampy waters obno- Pom. -tx. He would recall the fields to cultivation, ffH""tAr. a few waters partly in torrents, partly "Mf- de- rivates, into the river of the Territory of Setini, every day they call La CaPata, exone- raved and I have smelled the fields, for so long the tower of the waters ty rannide the liberated, in pristin culture: freedom, which in- he had tended, if not at the end of the great Setini he returned with grief. After the death of Sonifacio VIII, Setini aggravated by the loss of waters as well I was going to the seat with a lot of energy They acted apostolically, so that they were fertile Popes, Eugene IV, Callisius III, Tius II, Siflus IV, litemper bullas, which on this day and every day in Setix archi- they must be brought together, it runs The tenor of the bulls was here, as ad on both sides of the borders of the peoples a new river would be destined as territories, so Sermonettt
than Setia common rcrminus; and prajterea and every di&i territory palu-. fresh humor into the old one "The channel of the river Rympnei, which today 1(io'del 1(e Martino vocant; , exonera- ret. But in the mean time, compose yourselves the said territories were subject to disputes, Oftium the said river was cut off, Se- you have nothing to do with your own lam another from the intrusive flood He left the hofpite fe of taking out the fpe. Qua- I will soon enter into the matter of public expenses they decided that they should be made different as the waters, in which I was in the plains of the territory 'Boniface VII had led him, having been discharged, fe against the damaging flood they would be protected by this convenient remedy. And surely the thing happened to the wish: indeed not a small handful of waters fpatia reclaimed from the waters, to cul- then so forced cation they plan He disagrees break out rnm of mass minor urix, InviiU sonata cxficca- tioftfti- V E T U S N O V then the fummo fane of the Setinos it was recalled to the chin, and bauddubie the whole business to the end fent, nifi distrust discord, then Setinornm between fe, as well as with the neighbors the princes once more they would disturb and so the matter of harmony let small things grow, big differences perish, could be applied to them by the best law. For those from the Bonificators, as they are called, in fico camposjamfuoscollocarant, ul- tcrior swamp than (umrno fibi in acquiring profit prejudicio futu'ram, and others bus frivolous They tried to stop the push. Pifcatores also not plains fed lakes no stone unstoned they moved, as a laudable tarrj inliituto they render null and void, this only time tcs there, all profit within a short time, compared to the annual catch of fish they would see them undressed, whence they were maliciously torn on the ramparts, which were already standing there, the plains were filled with a new flood do not encourage them to do this then to the flatterers, fed pecuniary pervert of mud; engineering prize propofita corrupting advcrfe par- your rivals, so co, where CaVata Caatella, princes. the greatest danger to the ramparts nerct against violent invasion I need to build a lot of machinery was; what is this fufgcient day protected faith perishes. Terraitaq; alternative water At last Sixtus V, the first Pontiff rise, for a huge and prodigious hero I was magmmdine of mind, with innumerable desires which profane and which profane, to whom Gfymam
He decorated the monuments to the swamp also the execution of the Pomptines I have already gone through many ancient differences I will give my mind, too, about them so much as nature or art will deny, scarcely believed in human power, M L A T I u M. i5, busy he added, as business he would be sent to the execution ipfe in proper perfona exficcanda IcJcaj to urge the work He led them to reach And may the ripe fin- confidence of the gulls, informa- and having accepted the I was happy with the divine con- (Ilio auppicatus, fVffam a new one, which: 5c inhuncdiemabejus name, ilfiume deSifto, flumeuSixtinumdkkur, Manp, us, fiction death lare ccs ptAtntcr- rwnpili my favorite Pontiff, to use the fox already almost to the sea brought down to the desired end it was not permitted to lead; fic prxcclfa inma- I have a great deal of trouble commanding officers to execute he gives At the same time, she was born fuperfuifTet, such a lofty spirit, when and from the ingenuity of business difpofitiorM I was allowed to conceive, no doubt to the old, let it be said, envy prrrftitiflet Finally fub Vrbano VIII Bmvo- the fame of the place the profit fpe alle&i SataPi ope- cZt'et' ramluaminpaludibus ficcandibus They have experience in many things. the task is easily accomplished, fex propofitis from those conditions fcribere&voluiflet&pouiffet Vlti- the mouse finally arrived here Luftris Dfius Heiiriau Pelens Belw. here of great profit, that of this kind! God wants to be exficcatiprle obtained, fpe alle- usanimiiufque, negotiumjampene reducing the defpcrat to the anvil, fuam in clearing swamps which the camera performed in writing: Apophtholic: , which; of the method and reason proceeding, likewise demolumeatoinde Camera: refulgent and cceterif fcript under the given conditions finally nodding his mind confirm the authentication privilege threshold life Having obtained this soon with Nergotia- to the shores of the Belgian BataVifpie, with a mild temper the unanimous contribution of all work he began; and already in all matters the work to be carried forward by the neceffaries, no Those little ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI compared to the small costs, while ex Belio works on this type of work He expects them to be well trained. Here's how to use it The scarcity of men is uncertain, so also with disease, which you get from the marshy air cruelty malice rat, extin&us, a large-scale business untimely death void and vanished "Private, he said. S"M twm in this and all times fufpenfum: exftcation tmtatttr. Discord ts mvidia tnrbafrix smnium Although in the meantime they were not wanting, who entered into this and every other day vindication, as they call it, not for the purpose of utilitarianism tate profit they are going to promote. Ve- it is difficult to use rum tis fme head happily with fperato to carry out the fruit and distrust of modern affairs to the distrustful, and of meiioriportion to those who compete, business too he suffers delay. It is added here I have already sung many times about the possibility of the matter a contention, in which some were instilled not so much evil to shun me, fed others from the fire with the benefactors, ofnni- They try to turn the bus away. Whence, n t confidence several of whom I intereitjam3ab an- bus, in any case, I am ambiguous if it seems the best, I would difpice it. Vi&ustandem trustful by prayer, I gave my hand; the important business of the early judgment I would give it if I saw everything first with my own eyes I took to spying. And so in the year AuHorism With the most feverish mufis, Setiam con- mduflria me. I took everything except the swamp pi, return to the shore of the river, of the plains and of the paiudofi condition fummo ftudio confidera-. force VLtJppue fitum difpofition curiously sniffed the smoke, and for a while to offer, whatever to take account of the games, and whether fucceffum fperated to be strong ptum ncgotium, for her affedtus, which in I carry the public good, fe- I was forced to declare the following difcurfu.
C A P U T III Of the marshes of the Pontine: let them be fished to-day, &ad to be called cultureampriffinamrcari Vari. ttntia dc popularity tate cction game He is in matters an insurmountable difficulty to have a deputy SA&TE! It is true that the quxri is above everything else Is it possible for me to do this? be greedy to carry out every quxftion at once it is neceffe would be the one who, in fact, in a human position without falling into temptation, with propofitus He would proceed further. If earlier, sure let the method and reason be found, which propofi tsquxftionsinftitutum. When therefore The search is not akin to us in this place to be agitated, it is first to be seen whether local culture; to be received; it becomes suitable for both no, of which there are three falsehoods. No- no one takes away all the profuse ffem in in the end Cenda: Something contrary to experience, reality I do not only make it possible, i. e. Sc be done continuously, &fadumeffe, variously full demonstration they are fine which indeed I do not do at all j improbable, fed by fumes inex- I will solve the problems that can be solved, as well to be done in the same gathering, no nifixgrein effe&umdeducipofleafe- rant the entanglements of the English in this place and we will allege reasons, such as what fa&u it seems best, at last to be separated he puffs There is no reason for the business to be done don't poffe giftimant: has affrgnant reason- nes The first thing is that it is very important. The land becomes more level, eventually regurgitation of the sea he did not want to avoid it. Another reason is that exposed to the hidden wonders of the field feint bring I drank it ability accounts phytions Adftrcn- difficult cnltatem Feelings AuElorti. OLD NOV fmt, against which no human fuperfit nx power: remedy, when said: fcaturigenes perpetual: fint, acanatura in the places where they were found the discharge of underground passages. Tcrtia efc, the waters of the neighboring mountains constant and continuous prsgnantiurn rivers, which no one can control the force of the high rivers swells the embankments. Others oppose these contrary reasons, of which this first chapter is irrefragable persuasive form of argument tant: Which is not starched by anyone Efle is found, that is iffum current no one can rightfully deny that it happened on the day; fed to all the back-grocers, none at the time of this terrible drought perafkarfl, campofque culturaj in fum- mum not %oman# only Air, fed and the whole of Latium and its neighboring parts eligible income tax return they teach the fight: and finally, that it's too bad that is to be done today also poflfe, no one prudent will deny laughs no one knows the nature of things today He wants it unchanged. Others, of course, do not indeed impofTibility, fed diffi- explain the meaning of the matter heretofore they know of which this most nervous they now think that the pofttot cxficcations with no ternporis peraftas, water tarnen femperpriftin ftationre- will ask, manifest information, inundated registration is not possible faith, with the waters of the waters, and through the secret mine the force of the sea winds gurgling, five earth exfeipfahumi while I bring some sympathetic par- burning And hfe are the best reasons for which rn both sides of this Controversy: the referees compete. Why what about us, who have everything before us? we fought with the smoke, we drove around so qua; ftion can be seen, in a few equals I open to the left. It is certain and indubitable at all experts in physical matters, na- ture in the great plains plains, mostly lakes I will give order to that end, so that it is dry around U M L A T I U M. i5i; as if from the udder of an owl attracting the debt of the fibi nutriment suitable for the generation of vegetables return And these lakes, to use from the neighbors the origin of the mountains was perpetual they are obtained by the continuation of the flow, thus nor can it be done, as ra perpetually provided the hands of genius and artifice unchangeable by consecration. They are like that in the field of the Tomptine lake, where it originated pnrbent flu ways, Amafcno,
pbeo, coeterifque, which among lacus commonly referred to as illago diFogliano raripotcft It is well known the first claflis of the arbitrators adftruunt, none to move the quasftion, when the to dare to dare, it becomes a reluctance of nature to bring about force Qua: ftio therefore so much this loconobiseft, depaludofaaqua- rum flood, which: almost the whole of this place fspace occupied by an accident aftufa: that is to say, you are proscribing the remainder of the fields is made of water the culture of recalling them. Which; to finally decide I say first when fertile; claflls oifc ftti im cPcllens; it was at the same time as well to become poifc, when nature in no way becomes mu- father: fed Claud, Appius Corn Cetbe- gum confluents, use Angufum, Tbeo- Doric King, cafle reduxiife to culture, that the same at different times of your desire the test was perfect and the fuifle copiofc In the foregoing we have observed: that so it is the other way around, that too today become pofle, filegibusnatura: ftareveli- mouse, it must be granted. Why nothing else? the rest is like snow in ways we don't know twice the contrary: the opinion of the arbitrator op- they put it, let us digress in this place; by which indeed pnftito, to propofitumno- we will arrive twice let's go Therefore, the first contradispartisRatio vnmmuf This is it. Since Campi Tomptin has been much maridepreflioresfint, ete utexficcen- tiir, it does not seem possible to do so; with the sea i as A T H A N A S I I ntpote the earth here deeper to hafce lacunae j to be found with a natural impulse to be carried forward. But this reason convinced that there is no folly there for the sea became deeper than this earth fer, the river never had an exit they will be able to come he carried the waters of the rivers of the sea like a rampart some rio in fe ipfas refluxes: and hence fu- the tower will fade away, as if this plain on account of the accumulations continually flowing the waters have been rising for some time now principioin mareevafiflct; with her the humor becomes tur, so that it does not pofe to be seen the sea is full of fury. This but in these fields it is not possible to ex- experience teaches excurfufium, four of which, if at all they irrigated the fields with bushes, all tan- they had cast him into the sea: into the sea but they would not fe cxonere, they were terrified it will be more partial, no one can say deep rivers afcenfu some violence to and contrary to nature to seek the sea, which ignorant, lest I should say that he was a foolish man to bring Or, therefore, this land of the sea they will grant a higher, or admit co- er, I turn that preternatural sea afcenfion or the same in fe ipfa reflux; use that of yours it's ridiculous, so try this constantly laughter: and it is manifestly opposed to the fenfis. I am not ignorant, however, of the earth from which to dig, as in any of Hollandiads, the sea de- better effect with the grace of the branches quemunita vallatamqueefle, as ex on no part of the water damage, the snow through fra&is embankments subject to the effe with all earthly filials portions of the diet, fi di&aration be fortified, and the condition of the place permits it tat, fieripoffe, I will not deny. Adal- opposite ground; the reason of the father that as for the plains of the secret fub- terraneorurn meatuum fcaturiginibus effete, experience; as well cries (with the exception, however, of those Mrs what terfA years K I fl C H E R I force, from nature as we said nonsense nurncamporum ordinatis) datisenim perpetual hifce fubterraneis fcaturigi- zda with them, on this plain pperpetuum cucndam &inexhauftum the lake has long been evafifle while he whines, which is often false rcpetitx exiiccadones fatis fuperquc demonstrate Quodverb aliiprsten- they give excessive expenses in this difrkili to be done by work; they know that too profit emanating therefrom a couple of times bigger, so that we can eat at will, every easily fumptu in the money Refrain from fettimation. And these are the principal Reasons; which to the lmpofhbility of the business ad- X"f
ftruendam adclucerefolent. quibus qui- it remains forever say swamps in no time executed, and executed today in a true way I will open it, where before tions, for which the said fields have so often been reftagnarin, I will bring So compared to human things, that nothing should be firm and leafy, nothing adeb worship for a long time fubiifterepofEt, nifl Providence and concern for people I want to freeze that sandwich be given it is clear in the fabrics that the snow they are inhabited by petub, or they are prevented from being harmed the aliens, to whom they are cxpohtx, mu- they lie, they threaten the downfall of themselves: clear they are brought to life, soon in the wild, ffins, and tribes, and degenerate character in fancietta and wild they do: it is clear in the rivers, when the snow The carrying out of the truccles was controlled by the ambitious luxuriant harvest of herbs, overflowing tion made to the fqualor and extremity the wasteland surrounding the fields lead But there are usually four dung caufa: al- to be broken The first of which is the destructive o v. i. l dtjolaua- fubindc cities, houses, families graf- Flil"m it will be destroyed by burning; it is not surprising failing men and cities house OLD NEW LATIUM. j let him defend houses, families, and plains with the help of the ramparts of the sea and the rivers. rBdi ga, difcor- dintlr juii- God's people rum ac- soUrwn. Nature ipfa change to the air tbnoxia Hifce in- he promised unizcrfali hus nonnifi big Prince power and undressed will be able to meet I was reduced to waste. Another reason bel-, is the speed of the belt; which pmer vaftita tem, c]uaminimicapoteftasinfert, ho- the threats were either extinguished, or reduced to incitement as well as the bad things that are about to happen, both of poverty and want; of things to transfer many years to another they happen fic becomes as conveyed: cities, exuftx dwellings, fields dcftru&i necefTa- let them live in destruction, not bus, which is convenient for so many and so many evils they move their hands to remedy. The Tcrtia System is fundamentally a boundary the disloyalty of the peoples; who fraudulently and driven by envy, they do nothing Nifi as one of the akerius profits through evil machinations that he destroys in ways he likes: in part the inteftina wars and difcor- diajcivils, to whom to direct them for the public good at last into a confluence last be led to the fall. The fourth reason is velipanatura, or accidental cafu; nature induces city through the rain of rain the longevity of the new the rivers flooding the plains they infect with inevitable ignorance; the sea also by the gust of wind then the ends of the fibi Greffum, let him go to the terrible plains, which given the gate, spreads the rain. indeed, the bus is not easy to deal with inconveniences will meet, nifi Princps quifpia fupre- a mouse; who is armed with strength and power to restrain wars, and with fortifications, in those places, in which the access is when the first danger looms, ex- tru&is, this pa&o hopes re- tundat: you are the prxterea of contagion and the dangers of smoke with care to remove veat rum, then inteftina diflidia of the fubdits compefcat with rigorous laws; then they will break, or the laws ftatutif- those who come across, he punishes with fever; contrary to nature; To whom indeed the fummo futumo gilantia completed, there is no doubt that mtentum ncgotium with fperato fru&u and profit, not so much dtum deduci, fed &deductumperpe- He wants to be with you. to run the plains of Nujuimodi. An example of this was given to us by fcflio Cardinal Pcpoli. here I want from the dominion I was lubjeclas, when ad will recall the culture of great antiquity, and further to be cultivated with trees, bushes, reeds in a large wafti- tate degenerates, he is about to find a remedy He set fire to the combustible matrix, in which the benefit is concentrated tooth, found irreparable damage. For the voraciousness of the fire is quadaminftable
the roots of the trees in the subterranean while going through the depths of the trunks It is not surprising that he was able to pick up the fibers. in a short time the secret fire fpe- claculum: it was horrible fpe&arearbo- the great things are divided below, river luxuriant with greenery, finally con- with the roots of the smoke ram to fall: water with fire as friendship against confpiraffe even destruction Quo who- and it was done that the earth should be excavated he has received damage, such as He did not flee every day could: for the water of five rains five torrents transferred from another place force to them, and there the field fquallidum and all remedies left safe So you live and drink reasons why Cainpi Pomptini to the culture ram reduced, rcdundave it runs, just to carry it back to us, in what manners, in what manners do you endow not only to be caught, fed caught in per- petua culture; with happiness fint C A P U T ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI C A P U T IV Of the tnodo, the ratlone, the forces and the induBriis, with whichVovnptinx Let the swamps be reduced to a worse culture. Lamb in hard times by footing a fudge of things it is an experience. never seen says the wonder of TSataVorum I will not tell Batairor in the marshes. fed or in htdibiu in titjiria Mechanic caminfa- pfiusOceanus successfully forging the borders purses and sackcloth, empty heart too it will not be possible to introduce a poffe, as someone The swamp business as well arduous and entangled with so many difficulties lead to the focus. They are tcftantur field near Claremont in Atyetnia Francicefic InfuLe Arclatcnjts, cpx vulgo Comargo is called, far and wide with ma- to the detriment of the population those who in the past years rum men's clothing for sugar recalled rich countries are not huge so much money, fed air bo- the most indigenous community in the way that was solely trusted, con- they took Modern fan mechanics a day of innumerable discoveries tate dancing, to him excellency: we see that the step is clear, that there is nothing in it even in the opinion of all merariijs to be seen denied: le- puts a gem in the water he transfers rivers, no drown you, swallow the deep waters gincsficcat, aquisin the sea whence fc they had spilled, they were refuting. What; indeed with no tiflima fint, we will not dwell on them. But of this kind of famous national affairs I have made an example of the geftas, in this place manner and reason to the shepherds, to whom at last he desired to reach an end in an unfounded business let us be strong they will send, it will be difficult for us. That to be done as best as possible, from o vo, so to speak let us set the matter in order. To the business thus duly expedient while, first of all, we need Ar- chitecfo ingenio fagaci verfatili, who Nccjfaria to cxjic let him go swamps J. Savage architect
first of all the nature of the places tamhabeat, the slope of the place he knows how to explore a&e, that he knew of the flood, benefits arising therefrom, opor- tuns remedies to meet pofht. SitGeo- metrically, Arithmetica: , phyficar, mecha- z. sumpm nicx not ignorant, to which we add fumptuum with the efficiency of the works help, fubfid necephalarium, to spare a bus in such a machine, it is the work never ended at the unconfederate border to lead Therefore relying on these two how do we propose business then finally guess Let's see the mouse. They are all over the plain most of the rivers, foffa: already from the ancients in the improvement effect the end; of which the first mnium maxima, generally jo del%e Mar- R; vuI tino, once called TSLympbcem, who Nym- the na&us had its origin from the lake Nym- p pbaeo, and through the fylvofa places Follimus was relieved of that charge. Today, in large part because of the waters if you give it to someone else, it is fake, etc almost nothing tmif contains water. Who indeed became in- ftaurarctur, to all the marshes in Vi-
cines the plains diffused in fe would be sufficient. Vcrum Sixtus V five fumptibus, fivealiis ten he was frightened and left, fapientiffurlo-fane I'm going to run away you are brought down to the middle of the marshes, which, however, the work was brought about by death he could not bring it to an end; this ta- men fi produciflet; no doubt huge at this time in the field culture We saw the effulgence. They are also Cavata the leader of the foffx, or rather the rivers, of which the Fojfc pnor Cavata; the other Calate! la in general it is said
OLD NEW LATl it is said that he came from the mountains of Sermoneta the origin of the swim, finally through the marshes partly in the West partly in the flnmen Six- you evolved, the surrounding waters with they welcome the advantage of the great region, avehuntcjue I use Vfens Vero, commonly known as the orator, origi-. not leading from Lake Setno, all of them in Terracinenfis tcritoni effufas palu- give, together with Jmafen from PriVemenJi rushing through the territory, colle&as into the sea at last he lays it down. The rest of the foffie five tormes in the intermediate fields from the di- The barfs of the Effeci, whom they call the Circumdarians, with almost all the common cant, so much so that five rivers, new rivers judge the river for the rivers are deep they would be cleared by suitable means, easily all the bulk of the waters they are able to abduct the derivative in faith, Sc intent; put an end to traffic really This padto the river Sistine, together with carried out by the participants in the sea clum, easy waters in the territory of Setinus He would take away the scattered stools. Vfens verse with Amafeno, in the territory of Terracinenji dominating the waters within the lake stored, and drowned in the sea hens, this land of tyranny beret, and participative rights the strength of the past; he would return to freedom. HoMdi five SataVi fub XXrbano mV1ll-not only Paludum talern tccfum switch off, led&fluminaeoinCTe- they had to adapt to everything with his hands to and fro there is no end huge commercial advantage would be widowed, fed with a load of cooks the conditions with which the Pontiff can't write fubf, business me It remains intact, it was Confilius fane argutiffismo from the lake Kympbeus to open a new river, to join Vfemi, so that thousand fpa- he sails with even larger ships accessible, then transfer they had collected dinars, with which they had gathered they would easily have all the cam- the deluge of fecal waters U M leading, reJinl' land suitable for cultivation they complain. But as I said, the business domains, which he could not write about, remains intact. How then task so far completed he will be able to bring it to an end, see mouse When Vfens fluVau the greatest in this Ufemis it is done, we will be raised from him. He is born, as fce- pius dixUn at the foot of Mount Setini, 8c way he gathers his horn through the middle of the marshes, who au&us juxtaTerracina Jmafenofluino, at last he was thrown into the sea there. Here, therefore, with the marshy waters in fe it becomes the most suitable for drifting, nothing else it seems to be required, that the snows should be removed from the stream the roots of the grass, the silty sand with which he fcatet purified, fufficient al- the depth of the vein should be obtained, then as well as the ramparts on both sides be fortified But the material of the embankment ipfa river excrement, this is, ege- fta material will be fuppeditat. Silt and earth, to use roots jun- Ah, i of corms, and reeds torn out, to use the bed of the river will continue to escape and the ramparts are also higher they will gain confidence material of silt sand: flaccid egefta it is as if fe fola finer with a bond confi- he is hungry for food; hence trees, bushes, fen ticeta are to be implanted on the ramparts, and it will be done as a mutual embrace of the roots the material of terror and the embankment with time not perpetuarh only duration, fed utility with convenience convenience for travelers let him obtain the jun&am But the experience of Arhms he teaches, the trees to this irrigation prece ccete- fympathiafuftineant, &water ap- more demanding fint,
root too connect it with words it will become multiple luxuriant, incredible firmness they smelled of the ramparts. same thing to be counted from the flwnine of Sixtus, that he used Sixtus' fo: Confide the Pontifex to him On the contrary flood. ttk even me the future Jviotendiz aquiseva when discovered A T H. A N A S I I it is sealed, so also not to be changed fcd ramps to use Vfent well we need to know the exit time. Because it is true the rivers swelled so much they do, you will use the ipfos tranfcendence the inundation of the fields bring them in. Against this first this remedy will really work, be juxtaposed you will wear them gathered together on both sides, new; foffx the sides like overflowing waters certain receptacles should be made: just as the waste near ViamJp- pious Augustus and in the same manner as this rejoined the foffa of Sixtus, deprived of the bonifi- is reduced to caters in practice. That therefore from here two rivers We have written that in the rest also rivers, which; CaVata CaVatella they call, it must be offered. Prsterea transfverfa: foffe on both sides of the river they communicate with them they must be done. It should be explored first, which for in the plains the greatest fta- the flood of waters, on both sides: let them be, chiefs, as I said, river transport you fic will become like water drawn between them leave the fields molefto hofpite free what What happened when the deep waters they must have been more numerous than the said rivers they are able to be carried away by the fofias; make this mouse remedy. pafhm in Selgia other inferior Ger- they use parts by hand, this as well as intelligence. Duplicate Anthlea five the tomb, as it is commonly called, becomes an intrusion, that at the bottom is water; must be planted. fiction the engine of the vcnti, which in this open cam- the pores are continuous, as inde- it is agitated with a finite movement, that anthleum to vomit the waters get Here is a picture of the mill contemplate Aquasveroevomita; , in wooden derivatives; , wished for: they will be effected. If there are more things to be done many hiding places of this kind of water also di&a: machine; to business to be completed they can be ordered This K I R C H E R I pa&o SataPi huge fields iniinda- they love to make the poor If you ro hxc of the machinery of the expenfar it is seen that the snail is aquatic; a ju- mentally or surrounded by people: , or rofcc haftris properly intruclxadhiberi they can fcd more convenient mills they are held in the judgment of all, with the feipfis they should work, and they would not be impoverished by anyone they require ailiftence, all that time in a matter where the same wind blows: it but having been changed, by any means into this one end appointed wind machine it must be dapsi: whence it is crushed by art so that with the help of one vehicle the whole machine whatever part you want easy- let my business be twisted. And this techniques machinery used, there is no doubt that the dictum stripped of water, culture in a short time to finish the due fint; fcd one This is the most important place to use in this business important It must be handled with care. And they are fluminex eaparte, quainmare fe they were free, idleness fortified, oil not imme- rite of passage in the drifting waters gives For fi didaoftia, as in Vfentis imf, di- it will become like the prevailing sea wind he crushes waves upon waves; Hence the huge continuous flow of opposite waters the fluid is caught. For the current of the sea be stronger, be stronger The waves of the river continue to re- beating, I finally won ria, leaving the same rctrqadas they compel them to complain; whence like a rampart where- I will give rivers surrounded by water, flood inevitable flooding even in the fields of dataporta diffufa they will drink Which experience is not F! umim only in the Tiber, fed in all M"fiti to other rivers and the destructive winds of Z he teaches hosts. So what is the method? effepoflct a flash remedy, to open I will try First, nature teaches us in the abundance of great rivers, indeed Mart ntifqm amtrttrits
natural art rsmimite there Sxitm UEsntisO' sixtiniflu v ii diyj- dtndi jphysioeoer- cendifln Hin mtiri ms. Anilnum three days dying they are taken in the mail OLD NOV experience is the greatest of all rivers of the world tffjmimn, Danulium, Wmk, Bodanum, Nile, E-Hpkratem, inJum, Soryjlbcncm, and elsewhere, to use ex it is clear from the geographical tables, when I was met with a heavy weight of water the five seas of the ocean's fury queant, what nature clu, divide into various channels to use, fic in to go away several times, and as if in divers divert the divided streams of the ditch, that they may be in with one alicjiio oftio the refiftence of the sea let them come, the rest as diversions that bufdam, a free exit from somewhere else put down the waters From here as much as possible they are carried obliquely and long all are blown by the same wind let them be destroyed That is the same for us in this noftropropofito negotioprxftandum Eftarte, that great river. ture di&anteprxftarenovimus And so the rivers and Sistine lest I meet with the gust of wind they will slow down a little before entering the sea divided into several folds by that genius they are to be cut, as an oblique path in the diver- the waters of the sea shore let them satisfy their appetites. fic will be done to even be ex of one river retufxtamen to another soon foffx divert- with his ass redditx, from thence I bear the exit of the sea they will be found True and false I will fiercely oppose the sea, in every way safe fint, hence akerumremediad- to be given, it is done. Jn riches wooden clapboards, which are commonly piled up, VitruVms calls the palace, triple or quadruple order give them waves of the sea carminated clays, and soon and to them they suffer from cxtincli retroadtic libe- the ram of the river will be discharged into the sea they make power; and such a machine the most imaginative of all to restrain the stubbornness of the sea I will give it a remedy. But do not be fucceflu that time wooden clathra in pu- de- gencrent, against hancremediumha- it will be drunk forever and ever, they see U M L A T I U M. although di&a cladhra from alnin wood and let them be made by me: for of this kind wood within the waters not so much for anyone putredini obnoxiumeft, fedtalemin- it gives hardness, so as to turn it into a bundle can be seen And with this apparatus, heretofore muni- Cmfint: types of mentors in this noftro in- uinm- holding that is (Pomptitue %egion culture to be obtained permanently. Qma still hil adco is leafy and firm, which He wants to jam for a long time, nififummacura monitoring through the annuxinftauration if they need it somewhere, con- they are boiling; manner and reason, not anything in so important a business rectiftituendo neceffarium omififfe Let us see, I have led this joke to be decribed. And so the rivers and foflx every year fum my cares are to be cleansed from all things; embankment fi somewhere defe&uofiinftauran- di, plantx& virgultanuminibustanto- viummm pere noxious to be eradicated. Cleansing indeed, the manner of today is not limited to fuccef-ftrfcWoj fu, the work of the buffaloes is finished only: To buffaloes within the river they force the channel. whom I will address next by the river from the cattle-breeders in fcaphis, which they call lantals, food, with each one, with which dogs tur, these incited to greff ponderofo, quic- what from bushes, weeds, reeds- that trample on anyone who comes across they crush and crush Which after a considerable amount of water it is found in a depreflio Pifcn adds to this, the expedient utility of the pifcium: For while incefliibubalar aquxpifcibusopti- mis nobilifiimis refertx, from commo- turbidxred town are given, pifccslimpiditateaquxaffueti, to such an overflowing disturbance ve- Luti was stunned and dumbfounded, while there was no one I find a reason to escape, delightfully fane fpectaculo fuperficiem aqux pe- tentacles, thence either with hands or with nets the greatest quantity of colleifti within fcaphas. they are projected; nor anything else heretofore rts z6o A T H A N A S I
the above-mentioned parties the nut has been used. However, the diet The cleaning system should have a utility not to be judged, because it still works noxious buffalo radii ces are not completely removed, it happens that in- through the femeitre luccrefcentis time and time again the river is once more cleared of grass. Why? buffalo rafters to be attached to the guide rim, so as to be moved by them at the bottom of the channel then it was broken, as the rafters say rooting the wolf on the mound Xajirt mcntum would be thrown. Machine$ He was instilled with this talent. Compilation mvmia they are given one and five; autfexfcapha: , the rafters of which are cast in place of the shields let them have an iron bar within the stern verfatile 6c to depress it ele- and the vandals were suitably divided; fcaphis but the wooden yoke im- placed, cuilorajugis buffalorumcon- links fit and it shall be as the cattle advcrfo the river progressing ma- they will crush the ground, that raft from the buffalo together with the engine I will seize uprooted to the mound tumcducant Quodfluminelimofo I K I R C H E R I and I am not subject to any burdens it's easy Another method of cleaning the river main rivers on both sides t'r fiif' tunis wooden places: waterfall there, as through them at the time of purification, the water of the river into the side streams vata: , leave the river with water quant. fic of the works of the auxiliaries of the reservoir to be perfectly cleansed, to remove the silt, the roots to be uprooted, the embankments the same works on both sides by the accumulation of excrements take a significant increase they are what kind of reason? together be used as a cleaning brush I cxiftimized the matter to be used, as it were ufo of many countries experience verified And this is the reason than to offer in the swamps we think vanda according to which The above-mentioned laws do not come to pass p oteft, as the business fucceff the rat is not strong. Nothing, then, no way to improve this business it is important to the cation, the fertile dicurfu let's start C A P u T V, How important is the established business, and how important are the benefits then they began to emanate from the universe of Latium, m which of the expenses to be made in packing the camjo is carried
fitappellatus Indeed, modern ad- at the present time iisinlocus, ubiculture he accepted it, so obscure that he I will not say that in Latium, fed in the whole Italy is like what fe vidiffe agriculture; experts will be woven. In fact, incredible not only wheat, barley, sorghum, avense, fed vegetables, all ge- He has a lot of money. But the meadows cattle and cattle, cows flocks of rums, buffaloes, and sheep bus, the most abundant exhibit Once upon a time there were also fruits of every kind the best of pears and apples from whom no at the time of the war also He becomes a monarch; certainly not that by any means; you spend so much &fumptivaggrefli fuiffent, nifi pa- proceeds from the public bo- whether they knew how to promulgate. For they saw that this was the field of all who were found in Latium, and maxi- mum the most ferocious eff ra to this day there; as not undeservedly once by Hali- carnajfao barn and pennarium of Latium Fields Pontini makes fertile iaminfrit how much "wine pro- I am rendering VimSetioi Uudes generation "I came Seun OLD NO from whom the town of Tometiam was named Some people want to drift off, abun- the protulifle of the Hiftorics tell the story. There are those who eat every day from a single grain of wheat count forty chicks it runs Cardinalis 'Pepulus', whose we mentioned, one year come all out in the field penfasfa&asrefarfiifetur; why not during the years, let the fire not destroy the land so that it is not surprising so many times and so many costs pore in the infauration of these fields culture has worked so vigorously. Setina, too, prxftantiflima wines a no ancient monuments we read out loud, among the group dew Martial book epig. You now all the little things that you think A hundred cold spoons of Ty- bur tame: pen and both
Give Setia to the colonist. And there, TSlan Hy bla, not mefpccio- the Nile darkens TSlec quex delicate marshes Pomptinas From the rural slope fpeclat Setini Idemlib J, Thou Setina is indeed a femper Epig. Or you put the maflic Pamphilc: fed the rumor as well Yma denies the goods. The same book Certainly it is good to menfie, pofuilfe Epig. Setma appears. Ipfepuer us, ipfefitire goat Juvenal Tuncillatime, with the cup fat X. fumes Gemmatar ltto Satinum it will burn in gold. See Silius Italicus, Horace, etc. that several, who are good I was with you in the fields I couldn't sing the lust of fat run However, it is surprising to some it becomes, why the torch is made, as it is today the wine V U M L A T I U M. ifc he should not exhibit a lack of goodness. I I think that the vines are five war, livealiadecaufa vaftatis, iis in the places that Viim Setinis are so famous they were born, they planted olive trees in vineyards transferred to the mountainous plain, where the figs changed the reflection of the leaves they did not find so much propitiation, so the goodness of the wines also which, once upon a time, he obtains the praise. What happened instead of olive clusters were created, no doubt, without fa- I hope they will soon recover; with the fatness of the mountains and the foliage in no way is it changed. But to the plains let's go back There are those who return the sugar-rich field of Pomptinus KUi Computu fa6to import a million rim since the folus is more foolish than nmm. say poffit, fitpingue, glebar oppi- give abundance: ; a wealth of things too it is impossible to emanate the result from it. The architects of the entire fpatium twelve thousand fine cultus rubiorumutvocant, this eftioooju- wear a red dress; (for the fic of the impofterum we will call this type of fpatia) conti it was discovered to spin. Eftautemjugerum Rubiarium fpatius field square, Capable of crushing brown corn. We combed the whole field damned less than what Geo- it is found by the estimation of meters, aligning the fpatia, nevertheless an- the new people of this region to culture two and one results per million gerepoife, we are ofthe mathematician Let us therefore give the whole fpatia not fed acres of rubies that is to say, three thousand acres of Rubiarii because of the culture of rivers and streams; silly fubdudis Let us also give don't wear Rubios, which as many mum reddidiffe, a farmer; native teftantur, fedzo only Rubios for import one Let us also assume one red wheat I sold the rum at a price: Kk camus XCl ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI twArnh- mystical camus in and fumma mul- multiplied by five, they will arrive neceffario one million per year the results of the smoke; as I have said Provmtm foiTis5ifluminibus, a minute also in double that which he had in the field rubies are believed to give results. But they will object in this place to exp enfas as well as in by fixing, then by consolidating the already fixed would be greater than the annual income let him hurry to refund them. To this Objection I Refponded, tacimdx r r r, piitnn- Expenias non tantas ruturas, quantum one wants to imagine there. Since most of the people jamfad: a: fint, nothing something else is required, the snows to be and where needed, the best around marenova; be led And put it to rest help the prince of great spirit riadmoverejfintque workers, who spending a whole year at work let them work for the day of the three Julys at the expense of conduct the smoke of the fumes will run out: to whom I will let us add other thousands of fruits, then in machines tools, as well as in fa- spending a lot of money rum fummatotaliserit fcutos rum: but we put fubduiftis for fe- days, so I use the whole day for labors are granted in the year So let us give smoke to francs you can run out: fed quid to one a million people? In the field further reduced to culture m, instead of let us not put the same one in the clay of the years days in cleaning the furs, repairing workers were killed on the ramparts
equals, to each of whom the bus of July should be given up as a reward; they will be ntiiimm convervatis expenfe fcuto- txptnfa-l. v rumtjui rum, which with many benefits ahmmm compared to nothing; they will be here So you see from this reason- You will not spend so much at dinner, as benefits not a thousand times over there But let's explain the other advantages of of emergence. From the bowls, which one is there? are, and oaks used as trees, you do experience rumfumma fctttorum pinis inftrudiflimx, material fufficiens for all economic purposes they will be able; I will say nothing about the deer fowls, wild boars, and fowls of every kind, with which they are filled; are ve- nation, a huge fan that will emanate, in the kitchen profit, who ne- will he have I omit the water and the rivers pi- the abundance of the best; cujuf- ZZIT. FluYms is practically packed, as a result the objection of those who falfa They are trying to return the right field. With this business Henry Tellens was thought to be executed to be led into faith; not no five Princes, five have been deprived, I don't know, at least the Pifcators are given the support busliteris, Prefect of this business, Car- Nali Saccbetto, offered, in every way to overthrow them, the public confederation of experts finally at which those who had been present were relieved I run I trusted in penitence, refpondi, tantumabeffe, utredu&o ad better harvest Jgro Pomtino, acqui- so that rather the greater number of the better ones the result of the cultivation of the fields becomes rich tura That this pa&o may often be done God If the circulation of foivas from the sea to the sea is procured Uefl, Si VfensfluYius It is continued through the foffa with the Sistine altar, this torch will touch as pifces, with whom the wandering innate cu- it is a pity; this from the sea by the rivers and again in the sea the wonderful transmigration ficeplace, not only for the greater with the wind fe fint to multiply, fed mc- liori's note: , from continuous waters na- tural flow with the agitation of the fint of the future, Indeed, the borderline from all the bus was accepted and approved I also gave them into execution the task will be, the snow, as I said, death the precocity of Henry Pelens will intervene. If, therefore, any one of Pomptina's goodness OLD NEW LATIUM.
Swopjis htde oozing reward mother fnrgation to return the goodness to the calculus more precisely if he cares, he will find it so great that hil in ca, five delicacies, (ive things cul- of thee, and of the human race wealth fpe&es, to be trusted poffe vi- be given Neighboring mountain wines dinasinfabricarumufum; fylva: wild animals and the material of the wood foflkquepifces, as the animals suitable for all kinds of nourishment: except meat, milk, and cattle multiplication of fumrna patrice tate will present Finally, the fields of grain then, vegetables, fruits of all genera- ris afatim fuppeditabiint Additionally liif- ceexpera&a culturamaximanemo- manti's profit, and it is goodness making an air sculpture. For me, A region of continuous paluftrium, dead- I bus not only neighboring places, fed j harmful to the city; quality impreffion will be infected, it will also become so fublatacaufa, the effect is removed, ideft, it will happen that the soil and the earth rot push off the moisture-maker The temperature was cold, the air too a trickier way to for- it is not necessary. In fact, they did afHrmare aufim, the air is so perni- ciofi, the dominant city (especially by the wind fyrophxnice, whom Sirocco commonly called, blowing) another caufa not the rotten exhalations of snow, which a. I say to the wind those who are weak, they are afraid of those who are not weak so much, fed fanioris alsoconfti Ituation people, not end in- advantage moleftia are experienced. So we have seen in this case the differences Born in the Pomptine Fields ram, property, swamp the making of money by diverfisnul
I was not tempted in time, we have also received, We grieved why they were so reticent; in the same way as for priestly culture we have shown to reduce Advantages of of the emergence together with the expenses in in the work which confummando, which con- we demonstrated by boiling ignore there the rest of us Prince of piety, life of truth the importance of profit negation I will pay early, to work at last at the beginning he used his hand, and no need lo not depended solely on time he blows away with a magnificent horn. I trust that it will happen then, where the other, who had just risen from Sixtine I was in such a heroic mood the profane man has displayed his divine talents. I make a judgment about the business properly by giving, to give a juffus fum, fic id ca, which can be done, by ingenuity, or by anyone for prix utility advantage, without po- I follow him for the public good, by any means for sale I must have taken it. Which indeed is my light works, become anything from that in common He brought out the benefit of God To the Most High, to whom I am fervent, only as I would like to be registered. And these are they, who from the one verdure of Latium and the neighboring regions fito, born ra, property; and the first also of the same origin, and not of various colonies having been translated into them, of the various forms of empire, of the times, and of the revolution, as the most famous heroes, who came from them, from po- the tent of the same in short, of cities, towns, baths, and palaces fumptuofiffi- my a word about the gifts of the powerful from the starch of men, and the universal Roman: Hirtoria: according to the order of the seasons by the progress of the dbi, Le&or, as it were We exhibited oi 7H rv7fui. Good-bye, and from this it is difficult to make asterns; when nothing in human affairs it becomes firm, stable, and durable; which; for you this Latium He will open his eyes clearly. ONLY GOD HOKO AND GL0JA.
Index of Things and Matters, inhocVeteris&Novi We are afraid of wealth by the work of Lacius, in alphabetical order. Number Tagina, a. the first b. fecundampagsne denotes a column Abacus Marraoreus Ciceronis Aborigines It is the people. ibid. from where he arrived in Italy rinr, ibid. , the word is Chaldea. b. The name of the aborigines was turned into Latin, i6, a. Academn Tufculani. a Academiaville x Adriani. Adyta JEgyptiorum indicated through the mountain tunnels. io6, a The birth, study, epigrams, and travels of Adrianus Cepharis. a. Adrianus CsefarmbisinfoIitisinfetatur I52b. A&ris cleaning useful. a. Agyptiimaxirnefiiperftitiofi. b. A-Lnea; , the Trojans in Latiumadventus. In Numicus amneteritus. b. Some people, their manners and habitation. b. The equivocation of the hiftorian names has given birth to a confusion. Some towns were once preyed upon by wolves. b. Aquiorum Romanorque hoftiIit"as. b. Treasury Library of the Temple of Hercules. b. Alujiae, an old town. a. I made years. i6, a. A ger Reatinus paludofus bus inhabited. a. Tufculan field. Latium introduced agriculture. i5, a. b. Aiatrium, a town. b. White mother of towns, the origin of the Roman Empire. Albanavina. b. Bishop of Albanenfis. b. The modern Albans are tired of the old. a. Reftauration b. The friendliness of the Albanians with the Romans. b. An Alban loved by Alba Longa. b. Vaftatum a Barbarofla: farishoftibus. b AlbxLongKConditorAfcaniusarTeriturcontraCluverium. a. his rise Sc ctymon. ibid. True fifis. Why is it called Longa? b. goddess Dionysus a. Dcftru&io auto rumdefitu Albajconciliatio a. Albularivus was born in Albuneus. Fitus of Algis mountain and city. b. Algidum, and the registration of each. a. Another famous river was the defeat of the Romans by the Gauls. a. The wood of the alder is hardened by the decay of the wood. b. The method of making a channel. b. Ambulacrum Villa; Even with innumerable failing sources
The town of Amiternum. i88b. AmcenitasVillHoradansinSabinis. Amphiarai Hiftoria. a. The ruins of the amphitheater of Albanenfi. b. The remains of the Tufculani amphitheater? a. Amphitheater around Caftrum Gandolfini. Amphitheater of Domitian. Ampliionisdeftiuftio, &caufe i8i Amyclarumdekriptio. l6, a infatuation with indigenous people ihid. b. Amyclae perishes in silence, Proverb. ibid. Anagnia city b. The country of all men. why manner carried. ibid. b Analogy of the Geftors from Pelagia and Trojans. i8 a. Analogies of Saturn and Evander. Angiportus Terracinenfis. a. Anienisaqua is contaminated with avaiiismineraliuramifcelli. yours The etymology and description of the ancient river. a. Aniodividit SabinosaLatio. i6y, a. Aniofluvius his curfew. a. Under the twelve bridges tus, ibid. They ring in the fairies. b. Myfteria of the Rings. b. Monuments of Antiquity. b. The rapidity b. In Prasne- The unknown faiths of the ancient Latian peoples. The ancients in matters folide ftrucndis fudius. Antium, Caji Caligula and Nero's homeland. a. Antoninus' itinerary. a. Ancrura. Angeriaj. b. Bees Serapis. b. Military equipment against Ampilion. b Old man's water b. Water cannot be reduced to the last level of an element. Ij bi Golden Water, Aqua Claudia b. AquaCrabra. 6o, b b. Aquade Paivola b. Aquaferrata a. Matthew's water a. Aqna Rivellefia AquaTepula b. Aqux AciJuIa? . b. Watered down b. Water: fountains; boniras. b. Aqualetifera? i98b. Water? ManixderivatiopartimRomam) sparingly inVillam Vopifci fafta i; o, b. Sulphurous water? b, in the Nomencan Territory. %zz Aqu-E Tufculane. 6o, b. Aquila town b. The city of Aquinas. Arborf'mofa; vetuft3tis&vaftitari$. 5oa. From the trees spatted to the embankments. b. Ardcs defcriptio, c-tymon, antiquity, infalubrity afiris. Aricia ad Savellos fpeftat-46, b. Octavianus Auguftus and Tumus Herdonius were natives of Aricia. sl Ariiitdcfcriptio. a. Aricienfis Lacusevanuir. b. Arim3zis ArimaniiDeorum Krnxqffim. iot, b. Cicero's native Arpifium. Afcaniifepult-hfum. Afcanius Albaconditor b Afpra, the northern part of today's town, was once Cafferia. ztS b. It's going away. Atinaurbs. b. Atlas 3b. n. b. Attalus b. Augufti has merited the state and its divine affairs. a. Augufti's affection and benevolence towards Mecsnate. a Atiguftijocus b. Auguftus Dominnmfevrtcaii forbade, and why? Aureafecula lub Saturno. b Aufonia, Aufooes. io, a. Authors vary in their interpretations of Latium. r. The author's difconvenience of the calculations of the years. AxiiAppiivilla. Balnea of the town of Adrian. b. Barberinus Card. best known for literature. Bafilica S. Joannis Baptiftsea Sylveftroexftruaa. a. The Dutch in the forging swamps industria mechanic3. t. bi Beata MargaritaexfamiliaColonna. b. Belus, BaslfiveBcl. b. Berofus. b. Adrian's Library b. Blandufiafons Blondi's words, how ships demerfaf fuenntexcrafta: . W Bola it2. b. Boncompagna b. The hunger of the good Dcae. b. Bonifacius V J. Jubilsi Author. b. j What happens to Bonirication? The goodness of water; March; a. Bonitas&fubrhasAqualAures. a. Borgettoaddecimum, a town, where is it? y3o. Bovillaoppidum. 3i, a TJbi fituni. Brancatius Card. denounced by Alexander VII Epifcopus SaS bienfis The system of cleaning the rivers with cattle. b Burgefiavilla-78)b. Burgefianura Zootrophium 7Jj s. Ll Ca; eubui9 I N D E X R E R U M CcubumVinuml28, b. C3 Jeta. b. Cajetanusportus. #7W Aix Ca} etana. a. Cajeta shoot temporc raortis Ctmfii, ibid CajiCalln's death Caji Mari's ambition whose sons Caius Marius Arpinas. Where was Caligula born? b. his luxury and tyrants. a. Etymology of Camilloruui. b. The beauty of the Alban field? a.
Campifanctiorigo a. The registration of the field of Solonius. b. Campus HannibahVi, a, Anscemfljmus. 8b. The canal, from which the pool Amen is led, Card. dEftefieri juf-
Canales, hidden lakes AIbaniperquosfeexonerataqua. 4i, a of the canal by which the water of that Lake was discharged from the Roman Rcp. exftru- Canjlesplumbei-5i, b. Canopus, king of Egypt. b. Canterias mons. Capitoline Hill Hippodrome of Caracalla a. The town of Carfecli, and its capital. b. Caftrum FumaniiCarcerS. CsIeftini Papa7, cufq; vita&mors. b Caftrum Gandolplii ab Alexander VII iummSmagnificenriSexcui- then, to the relaxation of the minds of the Pontifical, because of the wonderful scenery opposite b. Savelli's thief b. St. John of Caftrun b. The thief fpeluncar. b. A laughing stock. b. Catadupa Velini, vulgd U Cafcata&i Ttnti, CatadupgeTybumna? . b. Catharticum Rufticofus. b. . Catonispatria Tufculum. b. CatuIIivilla Who was CatuHusunde? b. Cavata&Cavaiellafoffoejb. Cavdium. a, The caufa of the degeneration of the wine of Setini. r. Caufa deftruftionis Adriani. b. CaufacurCailiusmortemintuleritCsfari. b. Caufs? , on account of which I was driven to the end by a great deal of anger hidden Cereals to Chrifti fidem converfio martvrium, Ccth3=qui, &undcdifti? a. Cefarano a. Cham. a. who BeIus, BaaI Bel Charoniusfouslethalis a. Chronology of the Lacinian Kings, five Albauorum, Romanorum, Republic? Jemperatorum. Chusfilius Chami. He argues that Cicero's performance is stronger. Ciceronis to Afturamobcruncarius. Cicero's town b. his retribution and compensation. b a true joke is made. a. Circejilnfula. CircejusMons. a. Circus Mythology. a. Battle of the Romans at the river Telonium. Clavi &at}. si33 The town of Clodius b. his fatness, Clodius falls to Bovillas. b. Clodius was killed by Milo. a. Cluveri fentenriade Aoea will not be tried. b. Ccemiten' avecerum. b. The registration of Ccenobius Ferraci. a. Collatia, nonio Latium, fi. din Sabiois fitafuit. ill The colonists of Latium b. Colonies from Phalec Hebri filiodedufJtar. a. Coloniarum AuthorNoeiiiUS. j, a. The origin of the colonies. b. Column? the fall was prevented by a miracle. a. Column? Tufculi there Commotions rcfultantia exaquamm desiccatione, The reckoning of years from the Flood. i5, b. Euphebius Condicores urbium quinam i b. The confetti of Tivali go to the grains inftar faccaricxfulphurea calccprodo-
Refutatiofententiarum defitu CuriLim. b; The death of the Ducistragus of the Conradins of Succus. Confiliuminitum is betrayed into perfcminam. b. Continuta! cflert; mferiesinOedipifami! ia b Counterflooding medium. a. A heart torn out by Coracus. a. Corax and Catillus were the leaders against Aeneas. a. Coibi b Corfiiiiumoppidum. b. A small town of the Sabines. b. The body of St. Monica? Cortona was formerly Crotona, a city of the Hetrufs. 2l, b. Quails. b Crocone Umbronimcivitas. The city of Crufttimeria, and its capital. Crypta Sibyl? a. Crypra; Lucius. a. Cryptse Vinari. a. Ferrata's Crypt S7-e)usfundationisFufiordefregistrio. b. CurDeustotmala allows. b. Cultus Serapidis muItumtuminLacio, Valuic. b. Cunoni's illustrious life and death, You care about the town. b. Origin wild Why is the city small? can it be called the greatest? b. Mt'tropolisSabiQorum. Situation where Sabina a. Verusfims. b. The pDgna of Curiatiorum and Horatiorum. i. b Acjuk medic of spoons. zji, b. St Registration of weevils. a. fuperftitiofis how he deceives b. Ddnaficouditrix Ardcse. David Rex Ifrael, when Decenroviumquid undcdicatur a. Decius about the slaying of the marsh pra; cIaramolimina. To save? Virginis templummiractlisclarum, b. Delubrum Sacurniopulentum. b. Deorum ficliounde b. Dcfcriptioyeteris EccIefiteS. LaurentiiTybure. b, DefolationJsrcgionwn quacuorcaufig. b.
Diante bed and room to make. a. Diana. 'f'an: im. a. Diana's lake fpeculum diflumus. b. pianaeturris. pjb Diistemplatxfirncta a. D iffii revenges in exposing things in2ccefta3 vetuftati. Digentia rivnsquis D ifi the troubling orders of the ancients. a. Discord "with envy turbuixoranium. It is uncertain whether a cup of water steeped in snow is good or tlOXius becomes i9r, b Diverfishominibusea Jemfa? penominaimpofita n. b. Dodona? i&eorumorigo Domitian Amphitheater. b. A huge dragon invades the land of Tyburtin. Dulcitius Epifcopus Dynaftia2quatuorLatii. 2i, a ECcIefia DciparEEnftachiana? . i8 TL geria Nyrn pha. a. Egeriajfons. o, a. Elipha Jabbet II! ius. b. F. Ipenoris in Circeius fcpulchrum. b. Elyfiicampii ViilaAdriani. Ko, b. Empulum, the most ancient and noblest city, 8C its fitus. registration. Epigrammain Ponte Salario. Epigrammata of Hadrian. Epifcopacus A Ibanenfis. b. Epifcopacus Sabinenfis. The bishops of the Curia took the place of the Protoflamins. a. Epiphtola of Gregory Grariofo Numentano Epifcopo, Ererum Sabir, orururbs, from Monterotundo. a. The hiftoria of Eteocles and Polynices. i jo, a. Evander Mercurii Carmentajfilius, b. first Gracas Iicera AgriculturaLatiointulit. a. b. EvandriacCatillimolimina. ijijb, Evandrj A C MATERIALS, Analogy of Evander and the f&nex geRorum, i8, b; Results from the oracles of Fortuna Sc Serapides. b. Euphebiicomputusannorum aDiluvium. b. The death of Euphtachius and the Phocians. a. Maritime expeditions; the patronage of Fortune? wallet b. Expenfsefacicndxad exfiLcatione swamp Pomptinarnm. The greatest of experiences. a. Explanations of some of them. b I will exficcario the swamps of the pomplins with no non-starches. he struggled. ixficcattonis Modus. ibid. BAbric3 fuperba villse Qmntiliana? . b. The story of Ardea, the founder of Danas; The story of Orephtes and Pylades. b. FabuIaHippo[yti. a. FabulalSTuma? a Fa&ioMariana&Sylhna. i? Family; The nobles of Empuli Fana& Delubratemploadftru&a. A fan of the Good Goddess? b. Fanum Vacunaz b Farfa b. Farfarusfluvius Faunicultus Tyburti FaunusLatiiRcx. The wild territory of Etupuli. b. Ferentine, the court of Lat. a. Ferentine, a town. b. Latin holidays b. in the most elemient of them people's studies quoinlococelebratas a. how much registration ibid. b. The ferocious hippopotamus is made by sailors; b. Feronia Dea. b. FeroniaurbsabHsnnibaleexfpoIiata. b. The fertility of the land of Pomptini, both in crops and wine,
The fertility of the land of Rcatini. a. Ficana b. FicuInea, ancient city of Sabi'norum. a. Fiden, once a great and populous city. b. his fatness The end of the ancients by inxftruting Fortune? In the temple Fifcellusmons. a. Rivers do not primarily divide the rights of territories and natives.
The rivers of the Sabines. b. The system of cleaning the river by buffaloes. b. perfofaslaterales
The abundance of rivers is swollen by the sea and contrary winds. b. A lethal source of charon, a. Source of Egeria. Syphacis Kegis source. The form of Horace and Virgius. b. Palatitrizonia form. The mucus of the ants. b. Fortune is God for the faithful, who provides for various deaths the taliura takes turns in pairs from the caufis. a. Fortune uninhabited. a. Fortunalov's miniftra The memorable fortune of L. Furius. b. A fan of fortune. Fortune graphic registration. b. Where is the temple of Fortune for Women? Fortun fymbolum What place was the forum of the people? b. Foflfa Cluilia b. ubiquitous Sistine Chapel b. FolTa Way? Appia. b. the town of Fregella Frederick Barbaroflie Imp. abjuration of the victory FruGnourbs, FundanaVina. b. The city founded by Corradino Barbaroff was destroyed by the Turks.
Fund registration. a. Furconium vetusoppidum. b. Fury; national registration b.
filiiTarquuiH fuperbi aftutis. i2o, K Gabius fatuscontroversius. b. eruderacur. a Gaborumbutbsfunditusexcifa, and I was not left here i2o, b. Galaton, the painter, painted Homer's mingling, and Poecas around him Demanding his urine. 8i, b. Gcntifepulchrorum. b. Gcftorum aPelafgis& Trojanisanalogia. a. Evandri JEnexi ibid. b. Saturn and Evander. Gon. er the son of Lapheti. b. Evanderprimus brought Gracas literature to Latium.
Gracia, loniadicra a. Greek expeditions into Italy. a. Advent. i, b. Greek cities contend among themselves for the land of the florneri. a. Lucullus growled. b. Gurguresmons b. HJEmonia, now Theia. a. Hebernndedictus? b Hercules J. B. who i b. his benefits forrunSducehominibuJ preempted b. He deserved the apotheophine of monftris's neck. b. The construction of the temple of Hercules, and its former magnificence. Tempiorigo of Hercules Tyburtini. i3Ja. Who was Hcrilus? qi, You will come to Hernicorum etymor. i24va. Herodotus' account of the birth of Homer. a. The most ancient Hetruria in Itaiu ledcs. A low river. Hippodrome Cacacalia? . a. The swallows fly into the mountain, and the winter there they remain for a time. a. Hiftoria of two swimmers. a. The Hollanders' promise of clearing the marshes was not accepted. a. Homer A pothcofis, Homeripatria. a. Pcregrination pens. b. Powers and confirmation by Alexander the Great epitaph a. Philoparus dedicated the temple to Homer. a. The form of Horace and Virgil. b. Horace FlacciVilla. b Horatius Athenisfeftdtor fuitEpfcun. i663b. Auguft to the enemy becomes a friend The battle between the Horaces and the Curiatii. a. b. Horti Vill Eftenfis registration. Anienls portion in hor- then it is derived, ibid. its plain, and contiguous vivaria ibid. b. Horton. b. HugonisPfeudo-papKfcifmaticifaftiofiquevita&mors. iij. The humane is omnipotent. b. IAnigena; Janus. jib. ItaliEeRex. b japhek. b. Ichnography of the main places of the village; Adrian llluftres from the priestly nobility of the man of Tybureorius. Image iS. Lucadepidaetranflatio, a. The image of the Savior depicted by St. Luke. 2i b. Indulgence? quickly confirmed? a. The region of the underworld in the Villa Adriani. Where does the water stick? drinkable beauties The infallibility of the air around the city of Ardea. Infcriptiones antiquaeinforo Lavinienfi. b. The inscription on the Temple of Hercules Infcript ions found in the bottom of Cefarano. Infcriptionantiquavafis, nuncaqusIulti'jli fervientis. iog. ai" A record of the Wolf language found in Sicily. b. expHcau
Caafar Hadrianus was infected bl Infulce swimming in Lake Albuneum, b. The destruction of the magnificent town; Adrian b. Iocerocreaoppidum. a. An attempt at envy. a. A memorable flood. b. A substitute for Augustus. b. A place of waters, which they call Girandola. b. Ll Z JOTfr TABLE OF CONTENTS JovisLatialistnons b. jtaliaquaudoltabicaricceperit nndedifta Jtalus Icer Authorisin AgrirumRearinum. Julius Carfar of the Komanorum] emperor. 2i, b. Juno's Monk; the origin of the Temple b. his daughter-in-law ibid. T Acedaemoniorun faiths. Lacus Atbanus, ejnsquantitas, invefligatjo. Depth. Prodigiumexub': rntis. ;t. Vacidni; ideL. icii. b Du- two of his prodigious exuberance. Lake growth.
Lacus Albunei fiiccuspcirigcus. Lake Albuneus fivefulphureus. Lake water; When they are imperfectly cold, they are quickly boiled. b. Lake Ardeatinus fcu I urni. LacusCorne 3a. LacusCutIienfi; . Lake Forge b. Lake Fundanus Lafcus Marica? b. Lake Nemorenfid registration. a. Sc Lacus RegiHus a. Lacus S. Praxedis, llve il Ugn Ca ftigiiont. No lake, d2yb. Snbter anci mratus. they carry a heavy sword. LajiOedipiquehiftorta. b.
Lanuviivewnsfitus. a. Larion bee ir-e ALgyptiacse Hieroglyphicx.
LatiniRomanis refif u itconcordes. a. LatinbrtlmcpntraRomwMBexpedition. Latium Hetmria antiquiifimjein icaliafedes. b. Widely covered with water. b. Latiolrm latttndo a. four Dyrutftia? . ihld. once in a while ibid. b longttudoactatituJo. Lavicifitfls olim. ubi today %agaHh, i2oa. Lavicum vetL-bicum proimfcue apnd Authores fcriptumreperi- Lavinius b. Where is the fruit of S. Petronilla? Laudabilisconatusfucenrucarens. i, b. You believe in Leftrick. b. The Volica Latin language is broken. b. Liftaoppidu. b Lirerx Aurelianiad fenatum. The place in which the bodies of S. Symphorophae were buried. a. A place called Roma in the town of Eftenfi. Lonculaoppidus b. Lucius Fiiriimemorabilisfortuna, b. Lucretilis who? b. Luculhnarurrmriifftuiaiunifumptuofaereliquise. 7C, b. LucullanEeFuipajmateriamdedetuntmagoiricentifiimisvillts, b. Lucullinnilia, gloriofaeexpeditiones. Pifcinse, &ampla the same poITeiSo. ibid. b. Crypt? Lucullus fell into insanity in the abundance of leisure and pleasures. b T, na; l! usregno Mithridatemexuit. b. Lust and tyranny"CatigubB. i44b- The registration of Lycafi in the town of Adiianea. Magnificent building. Magnushominadtemplum Fortunas forciumcaufaconflu- The Malaine tree was dug up. b. Mammalian families MamiliaTelegonirilia b. The old town of Mamurra. a. Mandela village quis b Manlii Vopifci Villa. his registration. b. Mannascopiofus proventus juti&ftyrac, refined and turpentine; in the agvo Tyburtine. a. Marcus Antoninumifraata Fatigue of the sea Marine, eiusetymon fitus. The sea and the land Marmbium Marfornm Metropolis. b. Maficumbellum The origin of Marforum. Mecsenaiisheres Auguftus. b. Patronage's wonderful properties. b. his village, Medea would live everywhere. M memorable things that Aricia; they happened a. Memoriaftitpenda Laurentii OranK, Minturna; b. A miracle of Prceneftinus by S. Gregorio M. Telatuffllui, Mithridates Lucullocgnoexutus. b. MetiiJuffetiicrudelismors. Merropolis Sabinorum, Cures. b. The manner of collecting Mamia in the field of Tyburtine. b. Method of derivation of stagnant waters. a. M olendina found in draining water. a. Monafterii Callmeniisdefcriptio. a Monafteri (imCrypta: Ferr2ta? a. Monastery of S. Benedifti, S. ScoIaftica? . I75b. Monastery of St. Peter Apoftoli. b. Monforcinum, a town. b. Mount Albanus was the smoke of religion. J$b. Of his fatness verfiaj there, a. prodigies, which; they happened in it. ibid. f Monsintercifusaddefluviumpaludum. a. Mount Jovis Latalis. b. Mount Soranus, and all its memorabilia. Monraltinaville b. MontesCornicu Ianiqui b. Ancient monuments, The monument of Grasse. a. Schedule Reminder 3o, b. The monument of the Apotheofin Homeriexhibens. 8l, b. ejufque explanation. b Death interrupted what had already begun. Death, Sulpius Confucius. b. Death of VeilpafianiCa; faris. b. Moscremandicadavera, vafaconditoriacinerum. a. The roaring of the sea-sounding bull; expresses b. Women were forbidden to climb the chapel of St. Nile. b. M ultit wet snow inveratje. b. Munatii Planci vills. The municipality of Tufculana quale55, b. Mufarumfontcs. Mufarumg ftatuKdertfta? . b. A short work. b. and the explanation of each. Changes i4J, a. Mutclamons. b. M. Furii Camilli, pra; cIarafaciiiora. b. Myfteriaanulorum. b. TApeIusviruIentiffimaplantaarborefcensinmonteIanuario. lNarfesJuftinianiEunuchus. Ship registration. a. Naumachia of the priests of Caesarea. b. Neceffaria to make swamps. a. We are ticks. recorded by Strabonc. The Cynthian forest. b. 5o a.
Why was Neptune struck with a trident? b. Nerva and Trajanus emperors life with bridges and milestones they decorate the altar b. Nimbrodfilius Chami. b. ia 5abyIonedominatur. a Ninus. a. The old snow? b The distrust of Nogmi and the sons of Cham. a. NoS called by various names. b. Don't touch me. a. Nomentum, a town of the Sabines. b. The names of the towns of the priests of Latium, near the Tyrrhetian sea. Aquivocation of names a. He gave birth to a confluence of Hiftoria, ibid. b. The town of Norba. b. Novse Colony of Peoples. a Numa Pompilius, Curienfispatria. Numa? fable. a Numicius is famous for his use on the river Anese. b. The coins of Centronius were discovered in the same fepulchro. Numinmata of the Sepulchres. b. Empty numismats. Nurfia, the country of Titus Vefpafiani. a, a. Occafip A C MATERIALS. OCcafio of the registration of the city of Empulita. Oecleihilloria b. The family of Oedipus is fast and furious. Oedipus Laifilius i2g, a. Oenotry i. Oenotrii popu! i-9, b. Oenotrus. ;t, b b. Office Munati! ,i6; ,s. OppidadubiiGtUs%i32b. The town of Pomino was destroyed by the flood. The town of the Holy Vine. OpidumSanftiGermaniCcsnobioCailinenfiprincipaliordinisD. of the Benedictines. Opus Mufivuni. b. ejufqueexplicatio The oracle of the Faun. b. Orgamim hydraulicurn in the town of Eftenfi. b. OrigoCallris Angvies Oiigoinfijlarumnatamium. Oitus Anicnis. a Ofiia Tibetina. b. olira mariadjacens a. Ofticnfis portus. Otto Card Truclift-s Cerroani's ecrcgia laus. Palatii EvandrioivcSigia, Palaunusmons. is, Palace of Fragipsniorum. 4jb. Pallantius city. b. whether the marshes of the Pontine should be made to-day, and re- to be called when I Pa! umbK. b. Prepare to be imprisoned. b. palfienus Crifpus beech ftultteamavir. a. Worse i2i, his title is inquired. ibid. conquered I will b.
Pel dgioraculi admonition intiliam propped up". Pelagia Peloponnese. a. by Phalech the son of Hehri. i4Ta. they have changed their minds. 'bid. b. to confide in Italy ibid. I returned from Aboiiginiluis to the fires. a. Crotone TJmbrorum the capital of the city, and they drive out the Sicilians for their former faith. there. b. Expedition of Pelafgorum Arcadum in Latium by EvandroDuce. Pilgrimage of rfomer. b. Perpetual captain of Tybur Card. You'll be strong. e. Peftilencia fasva a. Petrum j4poftolum Prameftii. isprajdicafFe, temple conditifTe.
Lighthouse b. The lighthouse of PrxneftinainNautarum folatitim. b. li', lopator Momerotemplumdicavit. a Phorroiae, nbi hoaie Mola, a village by the sea Piciiesdefcripno b. de luco, Lacus, town lucus Veliatse Deas. a. Fruitful pifcation. b. Pifciano, a town. Pi(cina, LucuIli. a. Platitioiu-n fepulchrum. Polu(lviaoppidum. b. PometiaSuelTa Volfcorum Metropolis. I am a great supporter of poets, orators, and men of letters. Pornetioppi 'um. b. Pomptiniagrilacusduo Pomptini The Pomptine towns were unintelligible. ihid Pomptinusager Lucan's bridge The Pontiff conjured by force, and the Episcopal conjuring the avenger of God numxperti The death of the pope b. They met Portenra and Frufinone. portus Claudius a. A meadow of flowers even in winter. b. Pr3? nefte a quocondita. no at which time, ibid. , 8c 3nno. a. faftio the refuge of the hoinian his excision of Boniface VIII ibid. , b. he came to the Barberinos. b. The ultimate luxury. b. viciflitudes Prajneftinte Fortunse, Primigerii, temple. Fortit of Praeneftinarum ongo. b. The various fbrcuna of the Pneneftios. what, a. fub Clumnenfibus b. The Prasneftini femper were the devout victims of Hercules Tyburtinus. Epifcoporumferies of the Praeneftines.
Originality? Fortunje Praeneftina; Temple. The first author of the caerimom of the fluffy bell a mini-convenience PrifciLatiitermini. 2i
Piiftina Poinptinarumeluvium. Frivilegia Crypt Ferrata? . a. tnvilegia Decioconccffaobcjficcataspaludes Proctlius io8i3. Prodigiaa L)3demonibusexhibita. b, ProfuduitasLacus Albune, b, The depth of the chasm on Mount Lciflo. b. Profpeclusamannii Iimus. a. From the bridge into Catarrafta, which is commonly known as U Cafcattt He proceeded from the bridge into a deep abyss of water, which is called la boce they are called from hell. ProfpeausVillasEftenfis. Prytaneum Pub. Clodius Vina. b. ejusfitus Pupina, cjusolim fitus. a Pythagoras QTTid do the birds mock in the tree-houses and the mistrustful birds? Quidbalnea b. QL)iddusforor(. s b. Which mountains were nottenrferpetitibus fceti t io, b. QlidnamfigniricentdifTtrentesaiimaliumfpeciesiob. What do the names of the Egyptians and Copts signify?
Qtiid Serapeum? Qydvenatioavium in the mountains? rojjb. Quirininomen unde Komulodata. Qtiomodo nafcaiiturinfulagnatautes. D But Io to control the sea-fluves. a. The buffaloes used to clear the rivers. b. by the foffii lateral b. Raft found in cleaning rivers, Reate, Merropo! isSabinaeregionis, b. Reatinus aergfumen Italy? . b. Reconciliation of Horace with Caspius. Augufto mcdiante Meca; nate
Redditusagri Pomptini Geometriceexaminentur. b. Region Pomptina goodness. b The region of the Wolfs, the fatus, and the inland towns. a. The reign of the Albanian kings began. b. The rest of SS. fubaltaii Veteris Templi S. Laurentiodicainven- Reroora, the fifteenth ship, Reshumanasomnescaduca". RefpubIic3Romanorumir. ftitura. R developments of Tyburtina. a. Strength b. Rgccadi Pope Racca ftcca. a. The town of Roccio Varefiana. Romanclades fubSylla b. Why is Romulus called Quirinus? z. The town of Rubelli. Ruins of antiquity. a. a. CAbazius. jjba. Sabina is not a city inhabited by Epicoppus Sabinenfis
Tabinor a region. potent &amp; ibid. bt The ancient cities of the Jabins. Sacermons. b. Jacrificiavaria Diisinftituta. a. .facriricius poft the villa of Hadrian was built by the death of Chriflianus-
iaga. jb i"alaria via unde ditFra i b alina-Oftienfes. ja. They are said to be cured of death by rabid dogs in ecclesiastes, Viti, Ll$ Jana TABLE OF CONTENTS Sanfta Viftoria drives away the Dragon. b. The death of Sanfti Euphtachius and the foci. a. .SanftiGurinifanftitas, Sanfti Praeneftini St. Agapitus and St. Herundo! SanftiSoteri Papa3patria. a J"anftiTyburtini. 2i, St. Dominicus St. FJifubetha by Gregory IX, among the Divine relate b Saint Jgnatius stayed there. b. JantacruciusCardinalis The fury of the Muslims. tofiiila, vc: ufta Latii urbs. a. Saturnaliafefta a. Saturnia b. 3thornia? etymon. I went, b. Saturnia ccllus Saturn juftity If you paint. a. Saturnius Mont, now Capitoiiura. a. Saturn j, b. Qiiis was Crecenfis, a. Biker, Baby Yo- nius, A-Lgypius, b. Savellicaftrum b. SaxifodinasTyburtinajadrmranda. a. .fcaptia, a town b. Jchola Fauftiniana. fcopulusconverfioni DiviEuftacbiifacrr. Scyphus Ulysses, The discovery of Scpulchri Fuiiorum. a. Art. fl. The tomb of Afcanius Albaecondicor. b. b. Sepulchrum of the Bourbon Duke Caefarei. a. SepuIchrumRegiiiKZenobiae. b. The tomb of Syphacis, b. The tomb of Tuilius Hoftilius, which is supposed to be that of Anci Marcius. a. Sepukhrum Tuiliolae filisCiceroms. a. Serapeum. Prpenefinium, Serapis, why so much veneration with all? b. Setia, Sezza town, b. The Setini are concerned with the construction of the marshes. b. Sextus, the son of Tarquinius, was a close friend of the Gabiis. no, b. Why were the Sibylline books prohibited by the Romans i a. Sicani, ar. tiquiffimaegences. p. Pulfiab vociferously Chaldaa fic ibid. b. SicaRi Aboriginesfueniut coarvi a, Sicanorumetymon Hebrews. ii8, a
Sicily, a town. a. Signia, the country of the Pope Vitalianus, who was the first to inflict Pfalmodia.
Simon Magimors The simplicity of the ancients in vaffis fupclleftile. SinueiTa, the city of Arunco. b. SoloniusCampus. b. Sora city", b. Lots of Romanus too. SorciumfiguraSc modeeasasurpandi. ibid. their origin ioi3.
Sphynxcenigmarica Statues of Sibyls Tybunina Saint Stephen the Monk Clara: vallenfi Praeneftinus Epifcopus, vitse with ingenuity Strozzianavilla. b. Studium AdrianiImp. inomniliteraturajgenerc, profetus. Sublaqueum, a town. Suefia Pometia. b. death of Sulpicius Confulis. Sylla, the founder of the Temple of Fortune for the perpetual and happy fuc- chief Where did the straw come from? b Sylla? gift b. his death cruelty Syllanavitla. b. Sylvalauro confita aCommodo Vitellio Imp. frequented b. SymmachiVilla a. Symphorofacumfiliismortitradutre. a. T'Aberna, Villa. b. Tables of the confederation of TyburtiiiKcum Romanisi, b. Tarquiniiad's words to Lucretia. b. Tarquinius was successful in winning over the peoples and recovering the kingdom. aunt i; b. Tarquinius decapitates the poppy. b. Tarquinius Proudus exrcx feTufc. received Oftav. Maroilium I was a friend of Joiaffin. TarquiniusSupevbusregnocxaftus. 2i, a his afftita forertia in ad jnngendis fibipopuli. b. Telephus Hercules rilius, father of the Latins. The town of Tellene. a. Elonius rivers. b. Temperatina b. the example of God TempliHercuianifitus. Temple Bona? Fortune? . b. The temple of the virgin Deiparx, miraculously bright. lh' Temple of Neptune. b. Temporum tempeftatiimquecdacicas, b. Time changes the entire body of the race. these Terebinthus&refinaexagroTyburtino. Tenacina, formerly Anxur. a. The effects of earthquakes in subverting cities. b The grimace Teverone flufljfcs. The, a" example of the art of architecture, with a hydraulic organ in it Villahftenfi. b. The Theban Expedition. b. Tlicrmae to Lake Albuneum. a. The fcrutacores of Thefauri. a. Thefiala tempe Adri3ni. Ticra, town. b. The ticulus of the Holy Cross within the middle TopiariumopusP. quid? b. Topography of the Territory of Tyburcine. The wonderful nature of the river Tofaiu. a. Cicero's trapezophorus. a. The town of Treba celebrated the spring of Anienus. a. I threw the three Jews into the abyss in the mountains of Scifi. u Trinacria, n8, a. Defeat of Tripontius, Trinmvitarus Romanus, b. TulIiTrquiuiorumquearrociafacinora. Tullus ordered all the Latins to remain in command. The origin of the turn. a. Turnus Hcrdonius was killed by Tarquinius. The turn is alive. b. Tower cream. b. Diana's tower b. A tower in Circeius, a refuge for Pontificum. b b. Tufculanicaefi. ii7, b. Tufculanoi's wars with the Romans. a. Tufculiorigo Registration. Extent of modern rudc- nbus is collected. Reftauracio b. Princes. Tufculum was again despoiled by the greedy Romans. Decline of tuberis. a. Tybur Hercules, a. Modern fitness luxury? a. Tyburci founders. b. its antiquity Chronologically tur. mrf. Tyburtifertilitas, amcenitafque. Tyburtinaurb Tyburtiua variarumartiummergafteria. The Tyburtians enjoyed the rights of the Romans. The prudence of the Tybutines. The glorious death of the dead among the Divoiadnuroers Tyrrheni. a. VAcuna town, whence the name b. Variarde Pompiinisfententia; . The various works of the Gods a. Vafaconditoriacinerumdemortuorura. Predictions of Lake Albano. b. The origin of the Velini river, and the valley through which it flows, Velia difta. each facukaspecrifica, a Velicrajoppidus VcrKboniratisaqus pocabilis figna. ob. Vernlx, town. a, a. How the city of Vejencum was taken by the Romans a. Vericas hiftoricafabulisinvoluca. i.
A flowing river, and its exception. Via Alexander VII Pontus. b. ViaAppia. 247-a. eiuscommoditates, devaftatio, Via3 App? the care of Fundauis fell upon him. ibid. ViaCsfarini. 5o, a, The way AND MATERIALS. Vta Fr3ogipanionim. iii. Via Salaria undifta b. The way of the ferns to the top of the Alban Ufqueraon. b. Via Vaieria I conquered the countries which Italy was surrounded by new and new fempercoloms.
The vicissitudes of things. Vico Vaio was formerly Valeria. and the village of Varron, the town of b. Villa Adriine3, ejusexftrutfio, &exilruend; soccafio. b. Di- viGo, partiumfinguIarumdescription. With the ornaments of Villse Adrianus, Antoninus fuas thermasintruxit, b. Villa Aldobrandina. b. Villa Axius Appii. Viila Boncompagna b. The town of Btirgefia. b. Villa Caji Gaflij. a. VilraCatullipeetar VilIaCentronii. Villa Ciceromana b. , Vi! teCiceroniana; wavering, repair. b. verusfitosinqui f ritur. Viliacoccejorum. VdlaCopoDiorum VillaCrifpiSaluftii. i7ia. ViMa Eftenfis piauris ftatms mnumensornata. b. ViilaFaIconeiia. b. Villa Gordianorum Villa Horace Flacci- b. Villa L. Centronii Pifani. ViIULoIliorum. ViHa Manlii Vopifci his defcnptio. b. Villa Mecsenatis, pofteaCaefaasAugufti. Villa Montaltina b. Villa Munatii Planci ViIlaPatroniana. Villa Patroui Liberti VilIaPifoniorum-i63, b. ViMaPIat. itiorum. i6o. . The town of Pompeii. a. where did they go Village Pub. Clodius b. his (itus. , a. The town of Qjj. Csecilius Pius MetelliScipio. VillaQuintilii Vari Confuiis, and his fitness. ai ViIlaRoccio-Varefiana. a. VillaRubelliorum Villa Strozziana b. ViilaSyJiana. b. Villa Symmachi. The villa of Syphacis, King of Numidia? , ViUaVentidiiBa(l]. Villa Vefp3fia. The villa ica in the monastery of Lucretius. b. Villa Zenobiaein terir, orioTyburtino. i$6, al VindiftaSyllana. a. Fundana wines. b. Vini Setini Iaudes. z6r, Cscubum of strength. b. The wine of Signinus is praiseworthy. Virbius who, and the origin of each. etymon. a. Virtues of Homer. The city of Vitellius. b. Shadow people b. eonmietymon&' orio. ihid Hoofs; the water of the cattle hardens the wool. Volucrumartiriciofuscantusiii vilia Eftenfi. j, b. Wolf language corrupted from Greek Latin. a. Wolfse Sabina? voices stolen aL. mnis, lyj, a. The towns of the wolves. b Volfcorurus, the region of the region, and the towns of the Mediterranean. j6, The kingdom of the wolves, its division, and its origin. Urbitim Latin Prifca modern denomination. ii, b. UrnaSortium. b, a. Will both of these generate calculus? b. Whether to include 2qua2 channels; fint', a. Tenobia, Queen of the Palmyrenes. his trip to the city, fplen- beauty and magnificence, and the gifts of nature, the perils of tongues aunt Where did he live? b. Zenobian Villa in the territory of Tyburtina. Zoouophium Burgefianura. a. f N i s.
