Touched Soc. Jesus SS. A martyr I added, Bibl. Domictic. Vn-e}
ATHANASIUS KJRCHER1 F V L D E N S I S SOCIETY OF PRESBYTERIANS. RGÌ A, VlIVERSALIS n rTA, G$Vsfa Tampinò
V GREAT ART CONSONI AND DISSONI Volume II ar j" In Lib. Vili. Miraculous Music. D tz Who contains In Lib. The magic of Conson A Disson {In Lib. X. Harmony of the World
Philomela promises a thousand sounds to the Epiglottide, Thus the Art Magna is situated, and this gives a thousand and five oluminum xoces. PrafagaZIati Auisefl Apollmi Who is brought to the Mustea almus (gf parent of the meter. Terent RomvE, Typis Ludouici Grignani. In the year of the Jubilee I HAVE ALLOWED YOU, iom toilet WWW TRISTYCHON IN TOMVM II R GANVM acts as the voice of the Registrar, There are as many Entities in things as there are Meters. God's grace is in which the wisdom of the Father What he has arranged well, the Spirit comes to love. This love is harmony, this world is bound by love Do you deny that this is the world of God? eftweexw jWAy, sw. myy, Arci ìfmiwrmmiù W. Up EHH
M A G C O N S S S O THE EIGHTH BOOK THE WONDERFUL MVSVRGIA this is A NEW MVSARITHMIC ART RECENTLY DISCOVERED; with which every one, no matter how much he is ignorant of music, to perfection The notice of settlement may be reached in a short time. P R AE F A T I O; T A in all arts [cieniQs Praxis (fis Conian They surround Bion, so that one may disappoint the other, both with merit it falls; for practice does not obtain its opinion without theory, nor did he use his theory at the end of practice, so that he might use it in others They have a special place in the faculty of music; Although the theory M uficf contented with the love of truth alone, I somehow achieved the end it can be said, even if it is for one's own pleasure: yet there is no ra it will be possible for a musician to become despondent in all manner of practice, anything about diBam fa He brings out a culture worthy of me, From here I must bend Artis Confòni Discord rutheni's mind is to be more deeply searched for the innermost mysteries of the Mustes, in execution intention neither Theory of practice, nor the most practical Theory of Biiutrct'Mimulum for the purpose e reluendum he added, an arrogant rebuke of the merely practical symphonists, while they think that they should not pose, as Theoric Melody with that artifice of elegance (gf gratia com puts it, ejud ture deservedly requires modern music; rather, bringing the opposite let them receive the chinnif; as if I had offended this false blasphemer of theirs. For many years now I have devoted myself seriously to this business, leaving nothing unintended I would find some art, however ignorant Muficg may be, that little In the space of time (fis could be achieved by the end of labor, which the PraBic Composers scarcely many I have been doing it for years. With itaqne frequent Muficg experience doBus, a great force of combinations under the Musci, with the intervals of the tones, I would mark the hidden principles of the whole Mu- the furgicg combination of the art of analytical relief attacked, more valuable dufurgifq; ma He gathers the necessary harmonic relations into the tables with great effort by the arrangement of that mysterious artist; that they would order the Melotabic column wherever they were there, harmony would once again emerge. (How surprising is the combination of MelotaBica, when only in a simple ContrapunBo, vtpotein still in the first cradles wandering, his own it would be the fate of those who did not repent; I was immediately taken out of my mind by these things, which I could not grasp I have added to the universal method of extracting Mufurgig Melothetica, which indeed td seems to have predestined, vt venufiate all harmonies, be graced vnd cu artificijs ver I will present to those who are competent twice; Where the matter with the Musicians first you are indeed a prodigy they would be seen by trial, however, to the divers illustrious 'UirissaBo conuiBiBi, to him Artifi they learned to have it, the principles of which they did not know. Our new Mu confirmed this
sar already especially in the artistic combination of melotic paintings; which how- like faBa, a new harmony always necessarily emerges, like a composition of hutu smodi that therefore you know the Tabellas M elotaBtcas, according to the rules to be proscribed by us a little later to adapt, to properly transfer numerous harmonics into the melodic scale with any tone given to any text of words, any artificial song simple noses, composed, flowery, diminutive, syncopated, woven with the art of thread binding and he knew how to compose them with the same facility as those who were tired. For just as in Algebra Logifla I rule the tenor of the paradoxes he completes the eluctations, ed. Batus ejfeBus Logifid should hardly come out thinking, so here the tenor of the rules proscribed The harmony desired by the bands of Melothetis, flow from the music expert, flow from him ignorant ris, to children also, (fis Mulieris peraBa will appear. Certainly to publish this secret multumpotuere vows, (be an efficacious supplication; for when the barbarous men were attracted to me, exer cites the praise of the divine presence, not always printed books, or co- the lovers are present; most of all they believed that this s%îfur gia ijs vfui was going to happen, but not with this one You only want songs in the Latin language, but you can do it in any language you want. even of the Indians, you are as many barbarians as you can be You say Lib. ìDe Musurgia Mirafica.
ivttur clothed in Mufurfiam, I wanted to publish this wonderful work, so that no one
jtfod worship and honor for a long time propagating tn this business, omìfijje yi- True, let us not suspend the mind of LeÙor for a long time, let us attack fbtcijs. i Ess (efr unheard eo in order (ifs) we will proceed by the method which Ai uJurgia begs for in this wonderful way. iiu ari pm fi p zi noi ìî i; rz m M V S V R G I AE M I R I F I C AE i)
PART P RIMA MVSVrGIA COMBINATORIA he LE M M AX iMVSF RGIC F M. v. g. A to B. is said to be composed, as if from the accounts of AEI. di-. having placed the same composition from the same in every order; this is between the two it is lawful for the terms AB to continue the said procedures as often as they can in to wall the place three times; y4 g. as many numbers are taken in the natural series as there are things proposed so? For when they are multiplied, they produce the greatest number of changes, so for two things but two for three things six, four for four, four for five, changes occur.
v project A&B. I say that they can be changed twice, not more than once O how many once will occupy such a place for the first time, as it is clear in the margin, hyenas numbers multiplied together produce two. But the three things can be varied in many ways. For these numbers led in the same order for lead to six, if I know, I will say once makes twice makes the reason for this is because each thing will first hold its place once, and the rest: two can be changed between themselves, vt Is it clear from the following example? : v p v j i; u f. ed An example. for from for A
EDGE OAR! O ia i II! Oh! you i J. OJ! . i I ROA I $ÀOR RAO1 Varus
z Let there be four things that change one another n give? And changes are produced, because these numbers multiplied by produce L4. For in every way he rose. will he hold my place only for the first time, and the rest? They can vary three times from one another; true example of the present inlpicey. An example.
AMEN MAEN EAMN in the morning EANM MEMN Eman AENM E MNA ANEM MNAE ANME MNEA RNM A
NAME NAEM ai NMAE NMEA NEMA Yes Disson's Great Frontiers of Art
then multiply all i and produce and so many times I say things between le
to be changed after, as is evident in the following example, where five vowels and twenty We have shown that it can be changed many times. For every letter from will flourish four times, the rest to be changed in between, as is evident in the following example.
from him I a e i u â! a e oiu a e u i yes u io Æeutii
hey that's it now I gave them to God e a u i I wanted them
i ae u i a è u ti ia e u i a ori e hoarse i a u oe
oae i u a e U i; oh football yes I cried oh way
u a e i u ae oi wow e0 u ai c oh oh oh oh
where did he go?
in which case Otherwise, give the numbers arranged under any natural series, and multiplied by themselves there will be changes of any purpose; There is nothing to understand the truth about this something else seems to be required from the following table of snow, from which everything has been said up to now, the sun they shine brighter. TABV- Live Lib. VUh De Musurpa Mirafica; TABLE I Combinatorics. :U 'iL3r. eàu- (I'm sorry my Ju
OiOOfUlri R rrm-iOj: iilo i n f i i oiqmsxei xL.
Changes, and so on ad infinitum. days! ; ìiìiCJJp f 2lfìO! jp
You see, then, how any numbers placed in natural order, from multiplication by the numerical order between them, the number of changes occurring in things is produced x o things can be combined between le, times These can scarcely be believed, unless demonstration convinces our understanding. LEM MA However, since similar things occur, or that the same thing is the same thing in the same things they are often placed in combination; Combine t-easily by number of combinations "If the diuifa of similar things in the preceding table is proposed, he will give the number. combination search. Let the name MARY be proposed; that when it has two similar letters, or that idc is, apparently, the letter A, placed twice; it is asked how often it can be combined; therefore the name is pentagrammaton, or five letters; and therefore, the siomnes li terse they would be different, they would have a combination of izoin proceeding the table proposed. divide then this number by the number of the binary combination) or by as the table shows, give as many times as and as many times as any name of letters can be combined that ta men had two letters similar to siue caldera, ie two AA in the present name. Again the name trigrammaton is given, or three letters, in which two letters are placed twice tur, vt in the name of ALA anyone he wishes to know, whenever it can be combined; it will be done I will settle my vow; if the combination of the whole, that is, the combination of three things, which is by the binary combination number), which is You see Movements name pem logbook in which two liter similar Name three gummed up jM&vSixgv&ffîâtéfòfà, ffl&ijhrit You see therefore in this example, this name will not admit of the change of the foot of the snow- A AL nes propter A bispósitumysŠtinrdùo AA irchr infâpiniseMeKcWrft; de- hence one at the beginning and the other at the end. duojn end; the whole will be exhausted— L A A combine Again, if you combine the two letters of the Tetragrammaton you would like to know the theory, divided by a, it will come out, when the combination of the said name is searched. A Jf An example of a Tetragrammaton name in which two The letters are similarly placed twice. Irtrt Mr liTrt nvn hUrt
os. t ii -ititi I pr einnl ff' ccc8888 K ù You see in the example, this name can only be combined twelve times, viz. teaches, where you see nsexies placed in the beginning, Yter which together constitute the desired number of the combination of this tetragrammaton should be the same of the tetragrammaton with the name of quoisalius. If indeed you triliterate some Tetragrammaton he would have the like, that is, the same; by diuifa will give the desired mute combination tion, as is evident in the second example. You see that it is impossible to admit that otherwise than changes.
Example Tetragrammaton in which the three are literally alike Mntum can be changed four times, vt in A A AL. .
Let the pentagram be a word of five letters, which are the three letters A A A L JL should be similar to ÀMÂRA. you will make a combination; If you combine A L A ternary), which you will find in the sixth table. For the quotient will give o combinano- v y A A that the name sought is clear from the example in which you see this name aiia L A A A I cannot admit the combination. n; J i where will I go? iniiD;
Bitter AMAAR AMR A A WEAPON A ARAAM ARAMA A ARA M A AM R A AAMAR AARM A
A A A M R M A A R A M A A A R M ARA A MRA A A R A A A M R A A M A RAM A A R M A A A è I wanted to put these few examples in order that the truth might become known in a few examples. It's true for whatever combination of other things the curious Reader may have at hand, here is taboo We wanted to add to this, in which you will see more quickly all the things that have been said up to this point. T ABV Book Miraculous Music, TABLE II Showing the number of combinators of changes, of things, in which I have not been precise tas, fyd some are similar.
A series of things combined to diverge every thing God of war
Combination in which the like.
kidney in which j similarly.
the oar Humble s.
They VII Cheap TABVLAE. Abet ham table, io columns, in order proportionally decreasing in the first-# contain io numbers signifying things that can be combined or a series of things that can be combined binary The second filter contains combinations of objects, each of which is mutually exclusive differ. so res change poliunt io. vicibusss7 vero re$ Tertia coluna corine combinations of things, two of which are the same. The fourth column contains the net combi na The positions of the three pillars are the same, and so from the rest of the order of the columns to the de the top of the column in which the combinations of things, of which they are the new heir, are contained they spin Therefore, if anyone wishes to know, the whole of this table is here, whenever the name of some v. g. the letters can be changed, because it has the same iterations, because of this fictitious name MARABANA shows, in which, when the qiiters are the same, it is asked how often it is combed therefore search in the first column of Vili. (for I proposed the name of so many letters then there is) then a column of combinations, four of which are the same, common throat will give can be combined. Thus the name of six letters, three of which are edera, it can be exchanged several times, which number you will have in the common corner, let it be the number in the first column crosswise, and in the third column you go uphill. Yes And so you would argue that all things can be changed times. the same if then if then 2. z; if then six times, if the same thing o. Haud You will proceed with other matters, as many as are contained within a penny. We have settled down this table from the rules of Paplò previously handed down, so that it is not difficult to whom but to extend the number It is true that we explain this tattoo very quickly in Art ned stra Combinatola, where he applies it to the principles of any arts and sciences mouse, to which the curious reader will be able to return in due course.
Art of the Great Frontier, Disson C A P v T I
Of Combinations of Marks. Here we will teach some problems by which they may be determined how and how often Note how often they can be varied and combined with each other Problem I. Combinatorial. Give the data any number of characters, as many times as they fall within a certain interval can be changed, inside it is first the voice of three notes, that by the third it comes from C through D in E. it is complained that those ties can be so changed within this interval, that no one is placed twice in the same place two, but are they each disputing within the same interval? I answer that you can do it six times not many times, as things can be changed six times according to Lématres, even here they are three notar positg in three different steps, necessarily follows those lessons also in I can change it for a third time. True to this further demonstration nothing else seems to be required but an ocular demonstration, as follows. You see, then, in the example, how the proposed word is changed six times, viz it is supposed to be in some degree, but they should be disputing individually within the same interval, we have done that was the purpose. In other words, the voice of four notes gradually ascends from C to F tooth times according to Lemma it can be changed. For there are places in the interval where let the colors be diverse; The voice may be changed six times, beginning with the C chord and six times with the chorus give D, and six times beginning with the chord E. and six times, finally, beginning with the change of voices and the string F. four, drawn in gives the number of the whole composition proposed. As the following example shows. change i, i t book Vili tiMuJurgia changes begin at D, ,
begin with E. Jtij. JniijjJflC iV iJUlli! dtUpli- i i V V X i If IJ
So you see that in this combination not2 is found twice in the same degree, fed totally different changes
Problem Combinatorics. Given the voice of any number of characters, any number of which is the same character they demand the string, the combmaiion f ros ojtta of the voice.
Oc problem is solved without any difficulty from prqcedcntitabulalT. Combinatoria. Therefore let the first word be any set of characters, two of which are the same or above the same F chord, the combi of the voice is sought dwarf?
"S'Z'aZ'ŠI by concatenation of binary] numbers times will give any combination; the position of the voice can be changed. or by proceeding through the table: Search in the first Column VI. and the common angle of the fertile sieve will give lita combinationenrvt first. Let it be again the word of four notes, the two of which are the same) in which the combinator is used then divide the quaternary conjunction] viz. by the binary conjunction] quotiensdabit The desired connection is clear in the example. begin with F.
zL6 Artis Magli# Conjont q) Dijson C. sol, re, vt. begin with A. la, mi, re.
io e ii n You see that in this example all the voices are changed, ; always with the strings above the chorus I will give it to two acquaintances; the rest of the beginning changes, and indeed in the first changes mahentibus two notes above the chord F vt, in which the beginning takes place: in other changes but three notes: they always begin to go to Qi&'f. in À, with the remaining two notes always remaining inF. Thus, with the eight notes arranged by degrees, the change of words con holds If, however, you arrange two L of eight notes in any way the same chord touch, admits that voice next to the IT board. Combinator ìam changes. If three touch the same chord, it will admit If touch the same chord, Si touch the same chord Si6. If is the same chord It will allow you to touch Exchanges as the table shows nicely. Problem Combinatorial Given a voice of any number of notes, and among them any number of binaries, quaterndrtjjue of marks Jus er enedem, or diuersas chor you give to the exiles, to find the changes of the voice. At first, the voice of notes, of which the chief note was proposed: in A la, mi, re, sint so many.
in B fa, la, mi, vt is clear in the example. The question is how often she can be used while they are here two binary)? You will first make them four leaders in themselves, and you will have a diuifer through which c the bination of five things, namely, diuiiareliquit combination or change neither voice propitL qusitain. Yerùm needs nothing else to know about this problem ritur, except for the ocular example of the following inaccuracy, examination. I combine the notes of the word in which the guide notes the same note twice in different faces E3SS
You see Lib. Son oMusurgìa Mirìfica.
You see, therefore, that the intended voice can only be changed three times, and that for two or two rios of notes existing in the same or different chords. Another example. If I continue to say that there are certain words of nine notes which: it is long in two if the chords have three notes existing as provided that they are arranged in the following example: ttZIZ! ZZjZ3Z3Z3j$rZ beach change? thus you will advance, when the three not$ are j
therefore in itself leaders, vthabcas diuiforoper hunc for the combination of 9-that is diui- fa, it will give changes of the voice of the proposed question. It would be a voice of characters, in two ternaries, the word will be changed that the eye may perceive the matter, let us give an example in a small number ro Let the word therefore be a set of characters, of which three are in the first place string and the other three in the second string, the tone tes, the change of the proposed voice is complained of. then divide the com- biration that is.
I combine the notes of the voice with the tone of the diflating, in which the 3rd note; in A. three in
IZSSSSZZ: : become 3fi. 1
iMZSZr The great art of Conson, Disson by quadraturacombinationternari; this is and will come forth, my number for the said word can be changed as many times as the number of sations, as is evident in the example given. Given the voice of any number of notes of which two are the same in one chord: ; end) but three of the same in another string; Combustion, that is no to find a mere change of voice. oh-
It is a voice of nine notes, two of which are in the A chord, but three in chotda C. alis again in chord A, as is clear in the present example; to complain Is there a change in the word of the object? to proceed thus; guide cóttibinatid-ném ternari). hòc is per square. of the combination of the two defendants, this is through have-
narij vt you have then repeat this in the leaders in the quadrature of the combination this is in and the product will give the divisor, by this the number of combination that is you asked for a song. Various examples. In the voice of nine characters. Although all norefudt disse- re-nts the situation, the voice will have mu- tations vt. Do you ever? notH from inside they have had a position, the voice will have changes
Whenever three out of nine go over it if they were the chord, the voice changes When seven of the nine sing the same chorus let them hold the voice will have changes
When of the nine were from the same; Vox will have changes. When veiiyz, from were of the same site, the word will be changed
Different voices? of the characters cjuo to the sole position I'm freezing:
Whenever zLz out of were the same, the voice will be changed When out of are the same, change bitter voice When out of are the same, I will change there is a voice When I eat of the notes, I will change When out of are the same, it will change
When out of are the same, it will change rzr. When out of are the same, it will change
When out of are the same, I will change there When out of are the same, I will change there When all the characters are in the same space nilmutanar, vt. From the preceding scheme it is clear to give, every time, a voice of nine notes, mu And although it might seem impossible to someone, the penultimate v. g. voice mu
but the true truth of what we say will then be known to the curious reader will spend And with this technique, changes of any voice and any number of characters are easy will be able to know that in from the voice of the notes they run to mu tation tations, what? the sum is so great, that if every day one of the same changes if he were to write only one thousand, he would have to work in writing for years. The thing All those who do not know the power of numbers and the nature of combination are incredible, which yet they are easily shown from the foregoing. Whence also it is evident that the conception of the number of changes from Motecta every now and then. constant characters can emanate Certainly, if the whole worldly map were filled with paper, it would not be enough to contain all the changes in the combination of characters.
Problem V. Vniucriale. Given in %occ any quotltbet known fiue different fiue do not differ rents, whenever any height is determined from the assumption s) with this number, the number of characters can be changed: Abethec proposal something wonderful, whence did you see the higher order m we will explain our theme more easily, we will make the beginning of the proposition from the example itself Therefore he proposes to anyone and Musurgis this Enigma. the combinator of the propositions in the order known in the first om so many different ones ascending through the trisdiapason I wonder how many notes there are in a guy's musical scale as appears in this present diagram. The first question is, how often can you simply change them? they are, and we shall satisfy this question by Le ma I. Probi. I. since they are all different. they send the usual numbers combinano nem, vt I. The question is therefore fertile, whenever two characters enter fpacium trisdiapason can be changed, whenever it repeats, and thus until the whenever I say within a certain trisdiapason in- terualum taken from any number of characters. is the word changeable? So that this may be known, act in this way. Since characters are assumed. Dukesprimò in of course in the next visit a smaller number, produce rur A as many times as two notes within a trisdiapason interval they can be arranged, always different. The reason for this the matter is, since the two marks are all different going up by degrees, it will be done as a result of order twenties can change once. For the first change by step is done. The second change will be made when the notes are so given be pledged, they should ascend by the third The third change marks will be made during the quarter. Fourth by fifth. Why? this change through the sixth, and so you will be accepted until the which is trisdiapason when thus in notes they become the various changes here consequently lead to for They will lead to the proposed number of Therefore, always two note that within three diapason they change, no more than once, because he wants the purpose. All this must be understood about the different with the introduction of two notes within an interval of three a diapason of various arrangements, viz more clear Hence, if you want to know how often the three characters are entered.
those! II siili if those i 1J I f Î Ì
I i i i i f i i i i i if Î i if i i j they! They! Those them IUM i n (Those children
MI I l! I II f v r I if I II i i i i i i
IUM t I them. IUM Anyone I I I j 'j i fi i IÎ U1
I was IMI i I I U l n it OMG! Anyone if i i i
i i i M I i m i j j They II i j m mu Mlf t i i Ì U III uiinm I I I I Oh! I I Any i i i i hui mu I was a librarian. Miraculous Musuraia they can change the trisdiapason in such a way that they are always the same, but the same never be placed twice above the same degree Multiply by a little before from a total of conductors, and are produced. rie set changes. But if you take this number into you will have the number of changes known within the trisdiapaion variepotitas; so in order for
will you go up to it will be combined with ordinary numbers. This is true in the diagram The previous notes are taken in order and step by step in trisdiapason [we call them, they denote that, taken from the notes: they can be changed within three diapasons. I ii! I! iiiîîîîimi i, Go Isi iii) They I no! II of the Nile! M IIIfi! I! pile up
m m m m that of Lily itili j: Lile uiii Laii Um Lui] IMI
(lili They are very useful f M5H s s e ma lili! my lila [ILI] lile j î l ttdnio I iiiiumij M -3XX
The true numbers attached to each level of data indicate the number of which is obtained by each of the assumed consonances within the trisdiapason, thus disdiapaphon within three octaves of this notes can be changed with ipteruals equal Miri cambi nare vjdes interuallum z. siue numbers to be changed poste vici you want men t flt of the rest. Is this true in arithmetic? they seem incredible to the uninitiated, And if he were to work together for years, he would exhaust writers however, it cannot be laughed at, i. e. here examples in smaller numbers have been thought to be added, viz The truth of the matter should be known after the extensive changes of percombination, for the same thing appeared in and it is a way of proceeding with large numbers.
Examples in smaller numbers. Artis Magri# Conson, Disson Therefore, it is desirable for anyone to know how many times out of five known objects only two are not to be able to be changed because they are different from each other; Cantufque always makes intervals difference i having proceeded in this way, let the numbers be placed in natural order, as is clear in example i where the first number shows the marks of five or the whole The second the column in Latin numbers represents the parts of the whole, each time
tes of five characters can be changed within a quinary interval. Third
the column signifies the changes themselves, thus the five-fold videsynic mark H zo only to be changed later, the dyas notas yigesies, tres sexagesies i four cen- z III ties of the twenties; Finally five notes as often as the ordinary first ta-z. IV n He proscribes the combination of bulls. And this table is made very easily with the agreement y take in 5. 6c the product will give a change of two characters iterst in you will have changes of notes, that is Again in produces four changes of notes, i in will give the ordinary combation of the thing vt di but let us show the matter by examples. Changes of two marks out of five id efl, within the interval qutnt#, so that the same chord should never be referred to him.
In this example, you see that the positions of the two characters are changed twenty times later, not many times, if at all let them be accepted as a note, that the intervals between them should be long; But if we want to know how often it changes I know that if the two are placed on the same level, there is nothing else to be done, except to denda if it is the same, the fifth number is to be seduced into, that is to say or that the same must be added to For if from two times in the same degree st. protect vt in It is clear from the last changes of this scheme that the former will give numbers from solutè a changes notes out of the reason is clear from the position of the notes. For indeed in this place two intervals are always taken, one the other- that is, those of which in one note turn upwards, in the other downwards, however are the same intervals. And so of the rest. It is now complained how we can know, how many times a note comes out between days
sorry Uh. Cheap Miraculous Musurpa
so that they can be changed in such a way that everything should be different L notes that is corresponds to the table, by ordinary combination of binary)' numbers, that is by djuide and they will come out but the leader admits as many changes notx within diapente difpositx i as many as they admit notx within diapente dif
positx. totidemquè notxintra diapente dispofitx. fi vide the number combina- In this table, of course, by and by ternary combination) this is by by the combination of quaternary) diuiferis. True examples, in which it is clear that the individual changes are so diverse, that none of them has the characteristics of the same fine degree sword
An example of j characters within diapente. Example of characters within diapente.
IO Problem VI. Gombinatorium vniuerfàliffimum. JGiven how many characters, how many changes can be made about each character by the number of them, assuming that those notes are different or the same, or similar, or similar different. In the previous method we have shown how, given any given number of characteristic changes, we can elicit from any assumed number of characters. Now show while it is everywhere, how from any number taken within a certain interval, changes of characters may take place, whether they are disputing, or similar, or partly like Sc partly disputing. So act accordingly. Let the greatest system of fcalx musicx, consisting of notes, be an example; but it would be desirable for anyone to know how often each interval of music within it was taken for let them admit the changes. V. g. I want to see how many z notes are inside the musical scale let the changes take place in various difpositx. So do, lead notes in fe, &prouenient484 and these are the changes which notx within the whole system can undergo variously difpositx they are take this number again into and you will have changes of three the size of the marks within the said scale. In this way taken in produce the number of changes being four in the next numbers drawn will give the changes of the marks variously placed within the given System, and siefem- The last product will be produced by multiplying by the marks of the whole fcalx, or by the fruit of all the changes known to its numbers, which are next in the natural order Subtract the numbers of the preceding table from the numbers of this table, and the remainder will be given. location Another nigma Series
the table is subtracted from the number of the combination j. tooth, apparently from leaves changes of three I have separated the notes within the trisdiapason, partly similar to each other quantity of water So I combine the characters in the previous table. namely subtracted from the four notes of this panel rum combination videlite à leaving mu Verùm, vt you better take the artifice of each one, here threefold we will place before your eyes only one eighth comprising, the first of which shows the changes of diff bearing In the second part, disputing the like in part, and even the differences between numbers in the table? afe inuicem subtractorum, Tertia mu tations of marks partly different, partly similar, partly similar Disputants: Vt follows.
And so ad infinitum. The first table, containing character changes different A fertile record, a change will it be partly partly by difference, efl: q; the difference between vtraq; column.
The third table, changes partially equal to the difference tim earùdème partly dif bearing the like.
Let me add here another kind of combination, which, of course, changes can occur, ex notes of which are placed above the same chord and one above the different one. Secondly how many changes are possible out of notes, of which are above the same chord spin above the different one, but the same, so from cceteris until hence the decrease tes, as they had increased in the number of changes, they will decrease, but for the explanation nothing something seems to be required, such as the Paradigms of individuals. Hatu, of course, admits no change.
Changes. Not; e Sii. mutantur You see Lib. Son Mttjurgia Mirafica
change You see the arrangement of the marks, at least an early example of silk demusfecitnd, For the curious reader to see how the changes should be made.
Etffm- Conson, Disson An example of the changes in the fertile series and from the diagram of the tooth which notaponturfemper chord y note above the other string.
(im impilin imi imi um imi rnn imi uni um rrm imi etc. I was Miraculous music.
You see, then, in this one example of a fruitful series, how changes are made in nature and they clearly demonstrate this diversity marked in black. But in the fertile season, when the two marked mutants of the thread are changed, 2Z r. because these two notes remain on the same chord in every notes ri can be struck in each of the zz notes and a little more that completes change tions You will not otherwise account for the rest of the holidays, the changes of which you have registered they are
In the previous problems, we discussed combinations and changes. of characters, without being able to change their position between the givens as often as they are given, ces to establish, now we will also show by what means we can know how often the marks of the value of the strings can also be changed in a single string. So let it be. C A P V T The combination of value Problem Given a voice of any number of characters, all of which are of different value, whenever those notes of different value could be changed between fe, to find We show here how often they can change the position of the object, but only so much whenever the different values of the note are also arranged in one and the same string, they can be changed and arranged in various ways. So let us begin with a few examples. Let there be three not diff bearing the value of the object it is possible to know how often those can be changed between fe. You will place the ternary three times, so that it is clear on the side, leading in so that it becomes then, leaders in and you will have they can be changed between fe; vt is clear in the double-jointed example.
A change of different values.
And from this example the mode of proceeding of fate is clearly evident, where you see the femininity the smallest in the fertile series of the nouisponi; and nine times in the series the most feminine series, the rest of the consequential changes to be distributed. Siverò given the marks of different cmnes, the number of marks is assumed in natural order, viz to be placed in region take this again in they will arrive at from region po what to say; then are led back to A will come out è region po- you will proceed assuming the value of the argument. True as our mind. ZZiìlîlîz it is thought better to take a pine tree here, to say the sooner, as many
I would advise that changes can be made in any way that is intended to be of different value.
r"V v v universal abula in which the changes of notes within the fspace of the diapason partly in position, partly in value, partly in both Terence is shown.
Artis Conjoni, (Dissoni COLVM. I. A change. no tarum beach ca then they are different Order The voice Cobina to the voice if you say
COLVMNAII Change of characteristics so much difference Column III Change of characteristics position value diff bearing Order The voice Cobmation no tar value change the song A combination of features position value diff bearing
C O L V M N A paradigmatic, Examples. IV.
V S V S T A B V L AE. Son of Ltk. Miraculous music.
If it is a 4-column hashtable, the first one shows the number of changes to as to the position of the tanunmsccunda, it shows the changes of the marks as many as any; to as to the value only i The third shows the changes of any number of characters within
(I will state both the situation and the value of the difference. The fourth shows the whole business in exé- more If, therefore, any one wishes to know, how often the five marks are always divided within the scale they have a position, it admits of changes lest he find in the column of combination the changes of the five marks sought. But if you would like to know, how many times the five differ only in value (in any case, I began. IV. note disterentes è regione V. show inueniesincol. è region V. five marks of different value, within the same interval, each of the second degree planned changes But if you would like to know how often you learn the five marked situation then that they may be changed in the value of the 3rd column and the 5th column, viz a mere Night Therefore, in the fifth example, all are dispelled, at first without all sites can be changed by changing only the characters of the different value transpo placed within the same fifth or even above the same chord: if indeed it approaches the change of the lemon, which within the diapenteiuxtal interval, coi. can change, they will changes because the word rn is The column shows. Problem Given the voice of any number of characters with the fit and heat of the difference every time 'to find that the given word can be changed under this double variety. We have shown that in the N-progressive problem, whenever the voice of any number of characters is discussed the value can be changed without regard to the change of location. This problem is true we have endeavored to demonstrate, whenever the voice of any number of characters, both the situation and the value of the discussion tium can be changed translponically. Let it therefore be a vmuerial rule. Whenever notq in some voice you m situation then valo They discussed the matter. first of all, it is necessary to combine the characteristics of the disputing situation, in combination it will give the value of the arguments and the product sought. The real thing in the tiniest bit let us show them If, then, anyone wants to know how often the voice of two characters is situated va- the lore of the disputants can be changed: the combination will lead nor the situation of the notes that only discuss, namely vt IaZ the value of the disputants, namely, in the 2nd number, vtsecun- ZZ ZZZÌIIÌZZ he points to a given column, and will give the product of the question,
vide vide vt is clear If, however, were noted in your situation, you would change the value of the disagreements deres, the leaders of the combination three narij vide in the first column in the combination ternary) in the fecund column videlicet and mutations are produced in the cell. You will proceed with all the rest in order; always a combination of marks in the situation of the disputants, he showed them as soon as possible to the colonnade, leading to the combination no of the value of the disputants, which Table shows: and you will have a change of notes any number of those who dispute both the situation and the value of the assumed, the number asked. True The following table shows everything exactly. If, indeed, he had visited two led, viz. he will give in three notes in which he discusses
libus, it teaches the number of the mutation, as the subjoined example.
You see Art Boundary i Disson So you see in this example that the words of the three characters are the same to argue that one character is the same r to discuss. For here in this ternary there are always two similar notes vnanu. unlike? theme Mir Mufic? to algebra affinity Any number taken twice, thrice, four times, five times, ad infinitum. is repeated in order, they produce the numbers drawn in the order of the repeated in order, s which the exponents of the numbers show. Let the ternary number be re- Petitusjvt in this example. Then R. i will be drawn in fe, and will have QJi
it is drawn in the order of faith; habbitusbiqua- C, drawn, so about c other things as shown in the table QQ you see bisposites and in itself SS. drawn produce a square, which cha- QC a cossic carrier placed in Qmnte binaries indicates that i are said to be exponents of naturally continued numbers, by the fact that ex
nant, as often as the assumed number must be put; to be multiplied in faith, that is, to procreate where the desired algebraic value is indicated by the character prefixed to the exponents. Thus exponent shows that three should be placed four times; then to be multiplied in faith, ie produce there are two-squared ternary) numbers indicated by the character but explaining shows that it must be placed times and multiplied in order in fe to generate squared ternary cube] of numbers, which the character QC in say This therefore the preceding we will apply to the following problems,
root. Quadr. cubes. squared. Surfolid. square cube. Problem In the Polyphonies, sing the melodies of many voices, of every note, which yet fitufj the value of the waters fìnti the changes of the words in that order they grow, by which you can make algebraic explosions in numbers. Let it be, for example, the purpose of a tetraphon, or a 4-voice clause of notes in position value of equals, that is, it follows that anyone wants to know how many changes there are from the two, with voices Lih. yilL MujurgiaMirìfica. Jocfbui etne'rgant, so proceed; is assumed to be the root of the development of the Combi Code itself the number of characters that each word has, as in this example, is g. eiufq; combine according to i. let the combinatorial table be of the development of the Cossic harmonicg. Here therefore the farmer was twice placed, and in so ductus will produce Square, which shows the changes of words: of which vna- each of which has characteristics, the value of which can be changed to For when the first word changes ri postit singing the first one cx sexipoterit the second all sing the same in time singing the first, you make your voice sound the second in the interim, sing the other bit And thus, while the first of you was singing, the fex completed the changes, another disappeared, and yet; bc the platform, why two? voices can be changed. Hence, for the same reason, three voices mu they can be carried because just as thrice placed and drawn in order produce cu boom jka. they lead like a harmonic cube, that is, the changes of the three voices contained In this way it is placed four times in a row, and in the fedncta they produce a harronic biquadrate icUicet jfapó natationes vppulti. there would be voices, each of which had the characteristics of z, would be produced from placed in phenarijsorden in fe led square-square harmonic square, namely changes in words. V nrn iS A i alG, ,, iimpmtmqms f pmhomoru. ; Voice Voices Voices Voices Voices Voices Voices Voices
. The harmonic root
Deaf solid harmon.
nirai ldoi Square-square qtiadr. harmonic You see in this one example how to proceed in the rest; as if e. g. voices if there were several of them, each of them would have known values, each of which would have a value that is, for the root of the dignified and dignified power of the Cossico-harmonic statues; by replicating it, as was done in the preceding example. So the root is placed twice each of which consists of four equivalent notes. If it is placed three times when you draw it into itself, a harmonic cube will appear, that is, the changes of the three terms, and so on teres But for a better understanding of things I will here explain the eight harmonic roots.
Each of these roots twice, thrice, four, five, laid down and brought forth in faith they lead the cosco-harmonic powers of changes, which can be made in two, three,
four Artis oPbîagntù Confini, Dissoni auatuor, five, words, thus the root repeated eight times and drawn into itself will give QQ Harmonic square, changes of voices, each of which has notes
Problem Given any number of words known to the waterless situation, the water value,
to find the same combinations. . i (J i Let v. g. voices of fex characters, of which, however, in each two binary) are found-- You will proceed in this way, dividing the number of combinations of characters per quarter then the binary combination), that is, by the number of change will be tus, and it will be the harmonic root for two, three, four, the powers of co-harmonic, or what is the same, sought to trace changes. Not an example I add, since everything can be easily recognized from what has been said.
Given Voices of which the first are known, the second consists of Be faithful to thousands, the quarters consist of different value, find the changes of all words. Tt this prefent tetraphonius, and I know who wants it whenever the voices can be changed, he will proceed in this way. With the first voice should have voices, all of them equal, &intra. ud". JrZZ—— the interval between them shall be determined according to the aforesaid Probi, his combinano But when the fruitful voice three only the notes that are quiuslent, within the diatessaron iq- according to ta bula Combinatorial, leaders in and you will have prim changes? the fecundity of the voice; if I go on to three you want combinations of words, but the third word which Why does it have the same characteristics as above? proceeding, combinationé quaternari)per diuidesjpro- rich i2, because draws will give i72S. three words any changes If finally I call changes de- But the fourth word of the stars should have marks, dissimilar, etc. let the ordinary combinano be there will be changes of words, that is, Problem I
Given the deadness of the consonants, they diate, diapente tuning fork find their changes. There are species of Xita, diatessaron. diapéte, diapason, vtj cited place for is settled, nothing else is required to solve this problem, except to tation Lib. Cheap qIMusurgia 'Mirifica'
the titions of the three diatessarons being found, the quaternary combination is tripled; fi- ue diatessaron videlicet for this triple number produces niUtations of three the quality of the said fpccie; to the changes of the five species it must be combined with a diapente ime quinari), which in table and for They will pay changes in five days, but for changes, seven spe- the diapason of the censer is feptuplanda in neniendas combinano octonarij namely will come forth.
v-Corollam, v, ; Of the changes resulting from the different methods of Stue The seven types of diapason constitute different modes, each one; really mo dus intra Jlaviu# trisdiapafon can be changed according to I. Probi, - times, hi mul multiplied by will give changes of tones, if each? eight last con they would star; Are you mixed up? are taken, the square of this number will give namely changes. -VjvXi
and r': n: mute. r, , bytincliuc rmtnsi imd s I I Ti IJ 'J (i ihf) or v fG MVSVRGIA RHYTHMIC OR POETIC CHAPTER V T I
I know that the hidden and hitherto impenetrable power of the nature of motion in let it be by which we see that it is possible in another, which he himself does; which is not external only with the motion of the body, but most of all in that motion which the tongue of the fiction becomes m words and bursting into song. For we see Velvnum can so much so, to make others do the same by a kind of secret power, (whether by fear, -vt in panic, shaken by fear, or in the instinct of joy, vt in dancing co- dyes) to arouse; which, when it occurs in other movements, certainly has its place chiefly in voices human For the human voice, when it is nothing else, but a kind of artificial movement guages formed according to man's intention to signify something, exactly that to others we see him doing what he promises; For experience has taught him, with one song or plan
a nation, or whistling or even yawning, to arouse others to do the same. that the truth of this is in the sounds of the voice, and of the rude and impolite drink; certainly much more, i in It will be verified by the correctness of the words and the context. They noted this hidden birth ra vim at the beginning the first inclination? Teachers; hence not the praises of the immortal gods in any fortuitous context of words. ; but clothed in chains and thrown into their prayers To some extent they restrained Monika in this way; as the very words are the measure of the inner soul prxeise concordant with the affections, vt or hence a kind of first sacrament; recognize the rude poets fcas where? for at that time, so at no time I do not know what the gods obtained among posterity in the minds of men; For let him not only be sympathetic to the Geniuses, but also to the Gods he rarely stops his neighbors; But I can change men's hearts into anything they believed Where? Horace teaches all things so clearly soAvAcAutTcs; as to his words It seems that nothing else can be connected.
A low voice but to imitate as long as cat. : i-jfifmn Either they want to benefit or to delegate the Poet
Arits Magna Confim i Biffini The men of the forest are sacred to the interpresque of the gods
Dr vitìusado is decided Orpheus It is difficult for him to calm down the swift lions Ditius Amphion, the founder of the Theban citadel In what sense once Poetz beasts sa they have drawn. aqi; nt)3vvl Rocks moved to the tesludin, and a gentle prayer To lead where he would, was once this impatience To separate the public, to profane the sacred I wander forbidding intercourse; to give the rights of the husband Oj? pida to plan, to cut laws with wood 'v What is the honor and name of the divine gods? It comes to poems) I put these remarkable Homer
TyrtaufquèMares souls in trifle wars u fi He sharpened his verses, ditìx through carminasorts b. no, -r: y. ILt vita monfìrata via esi, gratia Regum. Pitrijs tried the methods, and the game was found. Qiicnidrr: 02 yes conouamtn cc ti i' i tlditq i fciib ormqul; mania. Ti-t r
Of this divine and impenetrable force, I will speak with Plato, but not of its origin to have but a harmonious emotion, we have given it elsewhere; especially if it is internal let him respond commensurately to my affections, he will also respond commensurately if by the brevity or length of the syllables reduced to suitable and harmonious periods, let the speech be cut short, even if the quick emotions are the same, the mind should be quick and quick sura; slow and slow: and although h$c sure in metrical or rhythmical art a wonderful possessing, certainly, a much greater energy in poetic or rhythmic music, com for it is joined to this, as if complete with all the prodigious numbers to obtain exactly the results of inanimate men, the almost infinite records of Historians they testify; For it is a little before that; I said, I don't know what happened between our minds and the sympathetic harmonics and rhythmics, vt at the same time as the metrical harmony to the ears the mind is agitated by various emotions, now with joy] in the way of love, now with sorrow, com let him give signs of passion, ir$, groaning, and other sorrows, which only from time to time in it has growth, that is, the mind does not know that it is contained by internal barriers, external ones as well members responding to actuspattiemati? will excite The truth with which we have become in our Art Magnetic book. we will show about MagnetismoMusic Tarantismo, that Reader-, we let go
So, therefore, I also sought Music; Harmonic rhythms aptè&sinev! lo erro- they should know how to re. coniMngere in this place Rhythmic music or Poetic harmony for it was thought to send; so that they might possess it with an intent affection. We understand but under this metric our art is not only poetry, but rhetoric; that's all to bring about the proper periods of the speech, and the appropriate pronunciation of the syllables to the music apply them hard, that they may be so. rn uucuhtit hzi C A dP V T you m bda 2nari mu not tnftiici'ìomu. ruu v md ziitilanoUèio aiio. v mu2 i ono CiVr Ju Ij. tDiu i unumo; Of Accents. .1, one
A Ccent is nothing else than the reason for elevating or depressing as to tone, syl- slide: And with the Greeks it is threefold. Sharp, Grave, Circumflex. Latin They rejoice only in the skin and in the circumflexion, it has been said without regard to the grauivt. And it is acceji- you are &utus the syllable is raised, the effect of which is ie esteleation; high, which it is irimitur, 0v loves; But they are called from the fact that the song or re- n
yes Lib. I was Mujurgia Aitnfca.
the numerous citations should be moderated; Whence and here and there the tones, the tenors, the voicing- nes and pinnacles are called vocums, on which see Cicer, lib. z. he prays about, then Quin linden l. i. c. f. Gelium c. 6. Martinus Capella) who calls the soul an accent the word Si mufic$ the seminary; As the unpolished stress of the syllables continues, it does not show them the syllable above which is placed, be it short or long, thus the harmonic tenses, not$ also do not indicate the length or brevity of that syllable to which it is applied indicated is attended to. Whence the triple quantity in the syllabic can be considered pronunciamone test, it is the first time that we dwell on the concept of fyllabg before its promulgation
let's not stop prooun they say it is short or long. to bring out the short story piety. it is clear that the ancients, viz. Quintilianus teaches, long syllables they pronounced the gemma vowel, viz Maater for Mother, demit for deemif, pipe for pipitipooni for puts, puunit for punishes. Sccu nda quantity is the intensity of the trend, qua- the tone of the voice is lowered in intensity or relaxed, and this is seen tur in fcal$ musically degrees, why the same syllable or longer- he cried, as if he had gone by grace; vt is clear in A; but let it be bent round, two more severe; vt is seen in B The third quantity arising from the accent, is the delay, in which not so much the same syllable, as the image propagated through the air, lasts in acre, and the space that occurs with the air. Now he penetrates and propagates many like him in the air, which syllables are pronounced with a high, or with a phyllabic accent. It is not unlike being on a string Inteofuis drawn, how in what? more relaxed, and from here it is evidently m, vt see syllables and litas there is always longer than tall; considered, of course, the delay, not because while it is in the mouth of the prose It is insisted upon by the rent itself, that is, by which his ipcciesi lived in the air, You see, therefore, how from the stress of nature little by little music grows and directs the business of human conversation, so that speech may be so much more elegant how much more distinct he was in his accents; Hence all the nations and their own nations they have a stress peculiar to the nation, and by which they are distinguished from other nations. since all these things will be referred to other treatises, we do not wish to be longer here. Just like you there the stress gives rise to the phyllabic pronunciation, thus the musical stress, harmonicâv and certain from the syllabic pronunciation of the rhythm, now swift, now slow, with the movement of the feet proceeding, it is born, and thus the harmonic rhythm. Therefore, according to the nature of stress, now what? The rhythm remains to be investigated.
1L, q 1n the enemy. it; Miffili zuamaMe c eudtkìq esistici; ussi tbb zwibioawprs Qidmtm cngir. da J. T) Hythmus, therefore, according to the time of the Scmotus, both PoesiSiu&Qt&tosibus, as Jx. It is common to musicians, that only when these voices and certain periods do you separate the pores They differ, however, in this, that in foetas all syllables are short let them be of the same brevity, and all of them be of the same length as the mlongirusiini Si of production; on the contrary among musicians, the correction of syllables is not so precisely taken according to nature, produ ction; hed half a tanjtùro long or short in trisyllables; in tetrasyllables yerò, penultimate long or short is attended to, as the shortness and length of the different values of the characters— they measure, as will be shown a little later. JS. yi. n: Rhythms. I stopped there Meter feet here and there different aunt
so called Rhythmus, which Plato of the Laws ML is motion; Aristotle but xenus Xywv, that is, defines the order of times Time may be the same in Rhythm, as sound in Music, in a Geometric point (5c Mitasin Arithmetic; For rhythm is made of definite movements or slow times, or in a faster order, which is detected by the pulsation of m tones, choruses, and chords, which is detected by the arteries. And from this Rhythm which slowness and speed of time and motions in itself the length and brevity of the monophonic voices set the shining, Music Rhyth- is called mica, for the harmony of the movement of the voice from high to low, the dimensions of the required items, according to en unless the soul clothed with its Rhythm approaches But how much Rhythm differs from the gravity and sharpness of the sounds, is evident from ver its simple pronunciation, which is: it is neither raised nor lowered; but the same you keep knowledge from beginning to end; This is also evident from the noise of the drum, the sound of which while by beating they indicate the various circumstances of the war, let the rhythm indeed be kept but they are incapable of any seriousness of sound, they exhibit no acuteness; With any with the intensity of the leather you strike, so that the sound is perceived by the same; and yet a remarkable m excited the diss of the soldiers obtains any one of them, especially if the Rhythm is precisely observed, and that cb a certain analogy which the first stroke has with the following, or that all They make a lot of money. For immediately the first stroke of the two following the length of ae quat, and immediately the last one answers to the two previous ones, and so on the others that I have mentioned they do it in a double, or in a hemiola, or epitrite manner. As a result, I'm widely rhythmic if it is nothing else than a certain sound proportioned from slow and fast movements, or that it is the same composed of various degrees of sharpness and severity. Strictly speaking the cost is nothing else than a certain conformation and clothed with the character of the quality of the voice, by which the voice, shaped in this or that way, completes the Rhythm; Aristotle also in To imitate the motion of the rhythms in the order of high and sharp tones. and all the rhythms of the song iy mpbonijs are said to rejoice so much that all the movements or dynatis and bound by certain laws of rhythm If, therefore, Mulurgus uses poetic rhythms, harmonic rhythms, that is to say, numbers if he does, he will not be able to surprise the audience. Why not drink? test numerous melodies? and the more elegant and appropriate the Rhythm, the easier it is to hear He will move the tores, through whose courage and theses, clothed with feet, he will run, moving he will wander gracefully: so with long, heavy feet, but they are expressed as pyrrichius, choreis, tribrachis, peons, and cheerful. we must discuss these more thoroughly in a moment. blUp. ciUlll'Jj )L 1i
C A P V T I V: um tending, that loium ìpectat, vt ioni per the houses and seats are suitably arranged, which are as well De PedibusRhythmortirn at the end of the Meters. i i j ÎR1DÌUI3 i Uh Es Metricus, then, is nothing else, quafn verse, 'Metre, or part of Rhythm in a certain syl defined by the number and order of the lips, and secured by the feet, thus the meter vo food is measured by long and short feet. However, there is a great disagreement between the feet of Mufurgis and the poets. For poets the number of syllables in the feet of the meter should be calculated more precisely. ve ro vti& pauso ante quoque tiictumtist, to produce the correction of all syllables they don't even look back, they only look at the middle or penultimate syllables let them fight with the first; But they do not care about the other quantities of syllables, or those Jongaesint, or breues. thus the bisyllabic feet promiscuously choraeo, Iam bo, the Musurgi receive pyrrichio, when they hear in the bifly the slowness or slowness of the movements let it be let him be imperceptible, for he who hears two hofce feet (Puts can) as much as one does another dance buy Pyrrhiciusidifc? when each is uttered in the music of the shark in time. Intnsyllabisverò the penultimate or middle syllable is only attended to in Mufurris, thus.
Molcsus, Bacchus, Antibachius, Amphibrachyspro on the same foot whose penulnmalon- ga becomes, is attended to. Not so Dactylus, Trybrachys, Anaptus, Amphimacer, for They are taken on one foot, the penultimate leg of which is the middle of the legs. They are like that Breasts, to read, season to give birth. In the same way, in tetrasyllables, only the penultimate syllable is taken into account by Mu- rise up, so dichoreus Dichoreus, Antipsius, Iormus à minore, pxon tertius, and Epi with the harmonic iyllab, whose penultimate line is the Proceleusmaticus verò, the first, preon fecund, choriambus and the like whose penultimate syllable is corrected, uuuu U U O v O t m O o
for in this it is clear to govern, to conceive, to be born, to give birth, equally for one and the same foot, taken away Quisemmin these two-footed Orators honored fylla- bx perceives the amount of the speaker heard? Whence I marvel at those who measure the size of their feet a measure of rum plus xquo superstitions in music to be used to excite the spirits. I think it is: nt. Certainly, those who experience it more closely than this, will see nothing in the harmonic feet I will give the penultimate obituary of the syhabs. But all the rest is superfluous; siuea for I will declare it as an example, in Sapphic v. g. chcramm siueiambum siue pyrrichiu, siue ipondxumponam; idemiemperin mysicissonabit It is clear why this is so. This Confessor of the Lord. cratus P e Consejsor to plead with God The Sanflue Councilor listens to the Speakers. Among these, the poet is the only first truer who agrees with his debts on his own feet; the rest There are two Musicians who do not observe the measure of the feet, and the rhythm of the tar. they were adapted to the verses. Separated by the number of syllables except the penultimate, which always requires an acute accent in this meter. Now all that is said at the end of words or polysyllabs is not admissible to any laws of meter tight; for it is done, while above any one of the Holy Scriptures, or above every other ver let's arrange the modules by solving the Boro text; For as I said little by little I was loosed And the numerous oration belongs no less to Rhythmic, than it is tied, that is to say, in meters poetry But if one applies harmony to verses and meters composed according to the laws of prosody, as we teach in what follows, so much more absolutely will work how much more artful was the poem or the meter, and more exact in the passages. It is true that you can see how you can reduce metrical feet to harmonics, We will present the poetic feet of the throats in harmonic notes We promised a certain declaration. It should be noted, therefore, that as in the case of the Poets, only one syllabus of brevity and length the species of lips is considered, so among the Musicosp Jures, for the variety of value dimi- of the notion of marks: for example (psnce) is espoused among the Poets specifically one is But with the musicians it can be complicated, since all are known following the pledge be able to express Lih. V11L Miraculous Music.
Therefore, even from this single example, it is clear that Music is much more open to Poetry, major Artiš M agna Confini, tz- Dissoni and to have a greater variety, and consequently greater in the corititlnds of men. Let us tell the truth about each one. emotions, to obtain energy. Let us give the true paradigms of each.
boria peers ojq n t i Jî V n un u i
But these are the feet of the harmonics that will correct the feet metrics, in which these are to be observed first. Rimò, Not all such feet fit into metric feet, nor all from everyone can fly. For if any one this pyrrhic (Cyclus. ) feet in harmony cis-in the fourth or fifth column would use the contents, totally difficult and unpleasant not without exasperation caused the auriculation which ordinarily occurs bissyl labes in which there are frequent consonants. or in these biflyllabs, full of fusion the viceroy of the bearer, and the like, who love slowness in pronouncing, so with his feet
which must correspond to the longer ones which the first column contains, contrary to They abound in bisyllables as much as they abound in vowels, because they love speed at once, so they are more productive which must consist of harmonious feet, for in these, read, flee, evils, and of this kind; St Secondly, it should be noted that the bisyllables are expressed with harmonic notes as slower, more fpo- the pace of the Daic is set to be faster and more pyrrhic to love The dance, however, is better facilitated that the two known points having collided, will be expressed, or the pause promised ly ncope, vt inj The following example is clear. Hearts up Alas for the sea Alas for the sea Legal
Illegal Legal The iambus, however, can hardly be tolerated in the anabasisic ascent because of the grauern accent, which in the ascent, the very syllable: it forms, with which nothing can be heard more insipidly. For who does not laugh? ret I find the sics to be the worst stress in music, and it is beyond what can be said so wings Lib, V1IL t&MuJUrgia Mirafica. . read
A Os feet harmonic trisyllables.
Rimò, the triplet can be considered a harmonic progression in three-syllable feet iriflaios 0L7j0To$. Progress is confirmed when it is moved upwards whether this be done by steps or by leaps. Ifobates is progressed when the foot follows the above- he walks the same step. It is katophatos when the foot is down or through the steps the leap is moved, as if the triple system of progressions is so important in metrical music, vt without them nothing can be properly established in Musurgia, as will be seen in what follows. Secondly, Arpheus 8i Theseus should be regarded as the greatest in trisyllables, because Molos I am tsiwnìv he would begin, he would make a ridiculous speech; otherwise it would be if he wTumfymf him will bring forth Thirdly, Certain trisyllabic feet are more suitable for the perfect tense, for others the imperative tense done; but what these are will be seen a little later. Fourthly, the notes which have been omitted do much in the correction of words; The real thing is for let's take a closer look. Therefore let us advance more solidly in our Musurgy; metric feet We will adjust the harmonic feet in various ways, which you have seen and examined, then-? let us decide who is better and more suitable for musical forms:
First, therefore, the middle syllable must be considered in trisyllables. who faints uis. cst or long, but between the legs, which one? they have a medium-short cdDabiylus, Tribra- chys, AnapeJiuS) Creticus quos à ideò mefobrachoa vocâ. t, Qua? but it has a long middle these are; Molojsus, Bachius, Antibachius, Amphibrachys; whom we therefore call mesomacros; In the first way some adjust these to the harmonic feet, viz let them answer perfectly; it follows
t O ICI LU Di" u Trisyllabic feet that rebuke the fertile dung of Mefobrachye.
Arms. Maps Cretan îOti,
Trisyllabi fedes qmsecundampoducuni siue Mlesomacri. Molossus Bachius Amibachius Amphibrachys I stood fortified by the îsidi
ibitàdnjMjdmirri. rudbWîds. gnolsiimi'a, Here is the method of some of them, which are called metrical feet, thus harmonic modules to be adapted, vt fyllabcebreues correspond to the marks of the minor tempqrisdong, of the major. Which I do not prove by any reason; and huge errors and ridiculousness in the syllabic harmony it can cause pronunciations at all; especially if the ascent and descent of the characters no no account is taken. And this I show for the first time in the feet, which rebuke the fertile For if one were to run this dactyl after singing the notes to be sung in the 3c column pronounce jis necessarily fecund iyllabastu, nature would make a short long pio è appears from the side, which thing can hardly be said, that in- '5-f iss- then he brought the harshness to his ears. The same should be said, ZS, eftde tribracho Anapesto, quiin all pa- rfl Run they proceed with a single step. Whence the vehemence I wonder thrice why Meriennus proposed these notes as a paradigm for the dactylic Cantus harmony Vniuerf. Sol. jjf The great art of Cottson, Disson I will be; i. r
joys poster he: For who does not see that in this dactylic pronunciation the middle femper is almost pronounced at length, with the greatest torture of the ears, the harshness of which increases so much the more they have been marked by a time, a major, or a major leap. The same inconsistency occurs in The Anapxtics can be your example; In which there are several in order according to the notes there when placed, it would grow cold; it's a phillabic song It would make a totally ridiculous statement he would utter a fertile breiufcula, the last however, it would sharpen more, and each Anapx- then at the end he would have a high accent. not if not with the laughter of those listening, as appears in the example, where the first and most fruitful development will be the accent on the grain, the Latin being useless for pronunciation, in But in the third example, even if the vltimanon is a baritone, the middle is still produced because of the jump. From which it is very clear that the nifallor, the musical modules in this manner, are in metrical feet It is not possible to correct it with any reason, when thus taking the infinite soloecisms in the pronunciation to give birth But those who wish to advance successfully in this business should follow the following method let them make their own do it The surest and most suitable mode of metrical p e de sharmonic, exa&èq) naturally at the end of the danger of fyllabtcce pronunciation usually they are beginning to be adapted to the boot. Therefore it must be noted that no us in the trisyllables primce&vltim lyllabxfed me so much for the day: whether it is corrected or produced, to have reason, as a musician the progress in the trisyllables the medic looks at the same amount of lyllabx. f Therefore, for one and the same foot, those four first feet can be smoked. mesobrachysiue, which is the same, having a short half; For three Let these not be different, to the four said feet; I made it easy for him to make words, to spare the messenger will square off. The same must be said of the four feet of Mepho- let me eat these words mefomacra, laboring siue ready, Queen therefore the same harmonic stress will be perceived. note LibJPìlh Musar gì a Mirìfica v bandaged brachorara you were anobated at the end of the afcensiuus by degree speech, pronunciation, npn will be devoid of sollcecism; for the media of short stories do not know this progress the violent production it will cause will be so much more absurd, as it was false Major, why was it clear from the previous example? Against the progress of the catobatos siue defcensiuus in whatever way the natural accent of those feet will be born. obrdf progvesius Pedus Mesobrachus Where do you see the Isobaron progressing evenly to hold the middle like a shark? therefore, the greater the intervals between the greater ones, the greater the force he will bring to the ears In'tnsyllabis, however, with the feet of Mesomacris, or having a long middle, progress on the contrary, the accent on how-. no matter where he was placed, he would serve; But Catòbatùs destroys it, I do not know what forced production by following the middle syllables, which are clearly revealed in the following example.
-r-ii4 Pedus Mesomacrorum prpgresusillicitm.
Kuti a r. t Plowing the dead plower i
The speaker To be noted from the safe Mesobrachus foot the quantity of short semi- It does not agree with the short notes, so the peduttiquantity of the Mesomacros is not well half- jnimis; in the worst case, he met with a half-shot L half-shot because of a certain natural True to these "thus pre-noted we will give some rules, by which the perfect accent har We post monic modules
kegulal. Mesobrâchi feet su n t catobate or isobate; But the feet are mesomacrous anobate or isobate lemon Mesobrâchi feet comfortably for all after the smallest nai? they are applied to known values the norm, because of the similarity of the inherent speed. Mesomacri, on the other hand, where the progress is stunted, because of the natural slowness, which is so well-known as it is jyllabisineft. Rule II The feet of the mesobrâchi acquire a perfect and natural pjacent, if they are medial However, the effect of beginning better hSbesot in; catabasi rquarn anabasi -Mesomacris but the feet will acquire the perfect adeintus; If the first note is preceded by a pause
the smallest Let us give examples of each one.
Pro- jgf A rtis Bounded, Dì foni yiejabrocborttm penatisi.
to comply with The worst and most perfect pronunciation of the twisted ones, whose middle they are eliminated p un fio season they give birth
Whosoever hath heard of these trisyllables of Mephobrachys, he hath no fcfolcecifmu let him convince himself that he would agree.
The speaker composes The progress of the feet of the Mesomacros was permitted; :5sE r S Good progress The best progress ss) of the most perfect pronunciation. iâT"
"TA The Huntsman will follow the Dancing Chapel In this example it is clear how well they can acquire a correct pronunciation in a short time sas by syncope; But if you reduce the aforesaid notes to the perfect tense, these feet will appear in another month I give them constant numbers. IsìOìZ Ji. The feet of Mesohrachus according to the passage of time.
th. Lìk FHL AîufurgidMirifica, Tri(Jyllabipgdes Mejomacrtsecundum tempusperfeélum.
Will Hunter follow the Chapel Dance?
In this example you see the tense of this kind, so as not to see a defect in the syllables prorîu- ciaconctegere So you see who has the most harmonic feet to pursue enun that they must smoke, to whom we have thus shown, let us now proceed to the tetraphyllabs. v-i. r
p edtbus tetrasyliabis, flue four syllables conflantives. Feet tetra syllable Feet tetraphylla Penultimate long Penultimate short vit. tO Oratone Proceleusmaticus u w y v redeemer) Difpondseus Dichoreus u u to fight Diiambus Antecedent
liquefied Ionic major The third pawn v u y to celebrate Pton first they shone u nobility y y miracles y y y spike y y y will be taught j: y y y calamity Epitritus the fourth fortunate Epitritus the third you cried out
The feet with which all the poets compose the meters are exemplified give more with an equal superstitious value of the marks i For the smallest marks pe they apply the long, feminine short legs that I see, but those who laughter more truly than they could excite emotion. Whence again I wonder why Mer- fennuscoetei um perceptive, yet in its universal harmony, this note with me what does he think of the three-footed comparison? For who does not laugh at this bete thinks You will experience miracles. bad It is therefore clear that in the harmonic pronunciation there is no or short syllables rum, except only the penultimate: syllable: , the reason is to be 'hàbédam', Thus vt all eight pau lo the previously enumerated feet producing the penultimate, they stand for one and the same harmonic they can smoke Again eight feet correcting the penultimate, for another harmonic foot and they can be taken, so that there are only two tetrasyllable harmonic feet; One who is few let him rebuke the mother, and let another produce the same. But how to apply these known feet whether they are, remains to be investigated. The penultimate long legs are either anabato, quameatabat or isobato in development, harmo The following example shows that the only pronunciation of the supporter is vt.
"If it is known? pause pr a? missa fyncopenror, autpunctò elidantur, acquire periectitm prompt nciationctit, Win open the following example.
Žtiduilp f. ÎCi Here the penultimate tetrasyllables are long process; the best of the fi pfiS
Speakers ziSmhsk: y9z: zizîqb fi. 'IjÎEE
You see, then, in these few examples, by what reason the penultimate metrical feet of Jonga no they must be adapted to the harmonics, so as to obtain perfect enunciations, now from d pe- Let's move on after correcting the final deshafmonicos.
-sq 'im rrron incpilcqa n biti: 1 The feet of the tetrarchsyUabipenultima hreues are not sent through, (tprocedant -ityld there
If a point is omitted, or the pauses prefixed are syncopated; best pursuit They acquire a as is evident in the following exemptions. . You are allowed
ÎV6 fltâlluî Best progrcSSHS. W tiîsd niabc
rniètèz P Vprri- Lib. cTMusurgia Mirafica. An example according to the period.
You see, then, from these examples, by what means the harmony is adapted to the metrical feet bet as the harmoniously adjusted words will be pronounced gracefully. C A P V T V Of the variety of Meters. In every verse there is a prayer of a certain kind, number, and order of feet, not without a conception bound A verse without cocetu would not be distinguished from a spoken speech, with which it is not he postulates without any particular number, and in order of feet. superfic. cs è linee motu, the body arises from the production of the surface, so the foot from the syl The laba meter is made up of feet. He whose feet are of infinite width They also set up an infinite variety of meters. Of whom they take another the nomination of the number of feet. Some from the excess and deficiency of syllables; some on the feet, and on the other in the number of limbs and limbs, of which in each order spring Iambics and Trochaics are usually arranged in the number of feet, of which the first-, it is a dipode or two feet; for no meter can have less than two feet thick, for at other times it would not be a meter but a foot. I am therefore one meter from the pole but meters consist of feet, and such are the lines which they call dimeters, they are constant; on four feet If, however, the grass stands on its feet towards someone three meters, if eight grouse It is said three times to the poet. Because some verses also denominate by syllables, vt ab syllables, hendecasyllables verse. But not so with meters of a certain number of feet they were almost measured, and at the end from time to time there was not a lack of syllables, or they abounded, hence The poet calls the verses in which the syllables are missing at the end catalectos. to whom nothing is lacking they call them lectos, but those in which there is an abundance of syllables at the end, they call hypercatalectos; If, however, these were missing at the end, they are called catalectus with a whole foot of two arms. and this is the first verses and a simple dimension. The second considers the number of meters, which they are called odes, for if it lacks strophes, it is called a monostrophe, that is, whose strophe is unique the verse is absolved; If the strophes are versified by two, distrophosjcuius by three, a tristrophe, of which there are four, is called a tetrastrophe. Or by reason of the diversity of the meter It can be considered as a division of meters, if the strophe consists of two types of verses from be followed, it is eKxaMvid, with two heterogeneous meters, if with three, a tricolon, if with tetracolons it will be said, It can therefore be vttetrastrophon be dicolon, vt occurs in the Sapphics, which ver They are similar to each other, and unlike Adonis in one way And from these it is clear that there are innumerable kinds of verses, all of which I read I would show you, if you do not know this combinatorial Poetics of Arsi? I had reserved it, for I was there He will deal with these things. Wherefore we return to our own institutions. Of the Meters of immutable feet, which are conflated in quantity; Are there any meters, which? He admits different feet, that is, those who do not have cer so fixed footing, see Hexameters, Pentameters, Anapstica, HE- decasyllaba, Alcaica, Choriambica. other flour of this? sule i But others are contrary to what? fixed unchangeable foot station They are in sequence.
I am going Who feet caralekt from the catalects What distro I mean loss Adonius, which scraper fuses the dactylus and spondeus at the beginning. Glyconia, in the first place I always pledge dcmdc-two dactyhs con- l that fuses with the spondaeo, Iambo cestirà longâ, then two- bus dactylis {You see the white snow on the high Bet.
Asckpiadceum choriambicum consisting of spondeo, dactylo, cestirà longà& two days [The Mecoenes of Ataui publish the kings.
y Iambic Euripides is composed of three iambs, but it can still be in the third place with an etiatru. to admit spondamm pyrrichium vt [Aue maris Stella
In short, Archilochus is both a cataleum and a hypercatalectum [Deus powerfully aflra vt the ancient race of mortals. Next to these come Phaleucius, the hendecaphylla; sapphic And htec meters om niu are most suitable for harmonic modules, the care of numbers in these contented with farithms, they can be applied to them in perpetuity and with great error. . As we shall see later. fJl! G A P V T V I.
yes u u" On the application of metrical poetry, and rhythmic feu
to the harmonic battle. "I In the course of the proceedings, it was declared in a poetical harmony, not to be precisely observed in the syl the quantity of lips, but the stress of the song to be taken into account, which is especially important the middle or penultimate syllable of a word is highlighted. It is true that it must be true, however important it may be an expert, however, can equally animate all kinds of meters into harmonic concerts i here, first of all, the measures most suitable and suitable for business are to be declared. NamVrsti-- It has also been said before that not all songs are suitable for harmonic modes, but they are as soon as they obtain a certain and unchangeable station of the feet; As they are dooia, Glyconica, Qmedam Iambica, Phaleucium, Sapphicum, others of this genus, For hexamctra, Scpentametra, Anapassiica, when the various feet are cast by lot, st dactylum with the pledge at the end of the hexameter. let them have a foot; hence j vt is not so easily adapted to moduli, also to harmonics they would be able to do so, unless anyone were to constantly observe the same foot, which, however, is different ie it would be business. Hexameters and pentameters with thousands of unsteady feet not through harmonic prosody but through Rhetoric; prayer numbers to write We think that these things should be adapted to the most important modules, a little after aj
De Carmine A donio sitte; kVamuis speaking in rigor, from two Iambics, Chords, Pyrrichias, Spondei a compound word can be called a meter, since it has more than one, feet con standing, because, however, he was only listening to the tetraphytes because of the shortness of the time the tooth fades away easily, and does not even present a proportional movement. ideò à Poetis metric tank is ineptosreijcitur. Therefore no tetrasyllable can be properly called a meter must Therefore, the pentalylabe is the first merit of the meters; for this pentaphyllum the first and I do not know how pleasing the proportion of movement it presents to the ears. tasyllaba, Adonia nuncupata, costantq; with two feet dactylo spondeo, vt sequitur cloud etc. Cheap Mirafica
The dark clouds of the Mind are sharp Metrometer Adonija Carminis Seasoned none. Ingenuity Imperfect tense They can fill the f
Sy der a light iti In&enlWue It is a terrible obstacle Anxiety
i-O o o perfect time i O O O H o yes J U. Oo O H We have already shown the quality of Adonija's meter nor, let Adonius explain the method of the metrometer for we are not encumbered with such things both metric, but also all kinds of meters, queisMu- Let us distinguish poetic meters, we will call them. So while we say Adonis Musurgicus [Metro- meter] Glyconic Musurgic, Iambic gicum, tras, corresponding to the accents of the poetic meters whether they measure the song itself. For this notx ap folded into the words of a certain meter, it is perfect as well as they will measure the time, then as to the accent: of the kind we have set here, i z Adonia Mu- the furcica was expressed by known metrometers, which for each and every Adonijs ver they can be beautifully applied to their condition, even here the curious reader will wonder let me learn a variety of harmonics. For if one of these signs was performed by Adonijah while various combinations of different values will appear z changes, which are they can, even if you do not change the state and location of the features, such as the fuse above in Musursia combi- natoria demonstrated fuit can be expressed with brooms. However, we have selected only twelve more suitable ones from a mouse; which will be sufficient for an abundant phymphoniurge, to express any kind of metrical
give Now we have put Musurgic astemia in the imperfect tense, and in the perfect tense, At his pleasure, Musurgus was able to do so. The truth about the explanation of these fuses in itself with those Anstophanica iambic may be recalled to Adonia the First, even though it is in two iambics they are consistent, and in one syllable without being added, because yet the first three iyllabx dactylum har they express a monic, they can be usurped for adoniusMusurgicis. as the following lines. Floating Varata us Through the valleys The sacred table Welcome Metaurus This is the month above Nor will I whisper Addiction Thank you Catfish He is afraid of falling. MUJl I. tzM Of the metro Hefias I will bind, Iambic Euripedaeus Metrometer Adonius dactylic Am that follows Adonis in order is Adonis dactyli- t ît Î with a meter of six syllables, it is called dactylic because it con- T îî j it stands on two fingers. And there is a neighbor Adonis, or thence He found the first name. For if I had changed my husband to Adonis dactylum, you will have dactylicum, but in Musurgics if it is penultimate double note, you will have Musurgica dactylica, vt appears here in in the following example. Take off the lights To the wandering stars See the Gods Bright gifts. according to j. o î rtîriî O o O O O O, o oî o In second place follows the iambic Euripides. Iambic metrometers of Euripides equal ratio hectasyllabon, scd differs from the previous one, that a dactylic consists of two dactyls, this three iambics, of which the Ecclesiastes is the most popular cushymn O star of the sea Mother of God And still a virgin Happily the gate of heaven And this kind of meter is very much tetrastrophó The monocolon vc is clear in the example. To these I have attached Musurgical Iambic correspondence the mouse, applied to the said meters, measures them perfectly: both as to time and as to accent vt in the preceding each one of which lis can be adapted to strophes, V. g, vt harmony equal to fitfingulis strophes one from these hectasyllabic mufurgic Iambics is given Notaz Metrometer Ana Creontic verses o. y y y
The great art of Conson, Disson Iambic Musurgica o. nfoo Ttt Î s? O yy O? t y y y o T T T Î roror q o a o a a o. y o o
Of the Anacreontic iambic, I will bind the heptacy meter. The anacreontic ambic meter is the heptasyllabon, con- and it stands in three iambics and one syllable. And it is double before jn the beginning of the setnper Iambo, later he rejoices in the anapesto Consider an example of both in the attached figure. mm? tmt î t? t rîî y o y y o o y mm OO O y O
to and thrice four times happy He has all this pleasure Cicada, which is above Stimulants are raging In the green trees And a pair of flying celery You will drink a little Where does the sweet honey flow? You enjoy singing sweetly, Fleeing too clingy O O O R O R o o o o o q. O R O H o R B j y o. y y y O O Anapstico î î tica in notes Anap$stica follows. Those hearts strike with a bite, ttt TT? Each of these twelve Anacreontic harmonies is accompanied by each strophe modify pkbtest; Whereas the latter has an apaste at the beginning of the strophes; have bis Musurgica Anacreontica anapstica, if the previous notes in each pentalylabe in two prior ones such as diuidas. vt is clear in the attached example, where you see resinduasquialentes dniisas, vt have anacreontic anapsticum however a Napsticus is octosyllabic, but it is the same as Anacreontic heptayllabic Ipect the accent, or the pronunciation of time.
i IS Uh. cheap. ÌAufirgiaWrìfca: De Iambic Archtlocbio metro oSosytlabo.
Note Metro meters Iambic Archiloctiij tf f î f f t Ost hcptasyllabum meter followed by octosyllabic cantati-? t î and the genre of the poem is thus almost like a hymn in Breuiario Let him meet a Roman, who does not agree with this kind of poetry, even if if something else is composed of musical modules suitable to this gene-
they are hymns. The king's banners come forth. fiTfttVtt0 Come Creator Spirit. Etillud, oooL o'Joq. Enough of the funeral, enough of the tears
Satisfied is given to dolonbns.
o o o tj noooo Music$ notx to be adapted to these are here added i with hu- The meter of this type is the most common metrometer of the Musur- can be applied to each individual
De Metro Enneasyllabo3 fit nine syllables. u j il i t Do you know Metrometer? The iambic of Archilochus OO. yO. y OO y0oo y y y mmu Ennea- T which is the meter, that is to say.
Working on the planks and gelling The iambic dimeter is Alcaicus. vt They love parricidal poisons.
Vttiufquc meter known metrometers Mufurgicis ijfdcm mesu- i tatur, as is clear in the attached Paradigm. I will decapitate the meter; BOO OHOtJ. fi. OfiOtiOiBHe Ambicus Alcmanius trimeter. It is a decaphyllum catalectus, of which it is itself which verse You look at the beautiful tresses of the Virgin. Veriim, when this song of this kind is divided into various mixtures, let it have bile, that idea, or less harmonic poetry: we reject it as appropriate. If anyone, however, ijs as he would, he set the measure towards here a little or tè perpetuò immu Syllabus with no business preceding to apply metrometer marks? y f f y yo he has decided Arùs téMdgrue Confini, DiJJoni. VII. De mqtra hendecasyllab Phaleucio }Sapphtco Alcaico daftylico vulgà Horatiano. NotatMetro metro Phajeucius. many? rtrt rt m rmrmod: Endecaphyllabum is a variable mctrum, we have three sele out of many we go to a more suitable harmony, of which Phaleucius is the first; And this, because of the numerous chords, is most suitable for harmony. Nay, the Italians are scarcely more frequent in their kind of poetry, vtun- to add to the harmony of the faith, as they usually do Anacreontic heptasyllabum. as will be seen in what follows Whoever, therefore, adapts this kind of meter to the music of poetry let him sit, let him express as much as possible and they consist of frequent chords, reedted dactyls, anapostis, and tribrachis; and will have easy intent Notie Metrometro è region apposite; they seem, any of which-- that you will be able to apply from
Next is the Sapphic Hendecafyllabum, the most popular song of all time. tristrophon dicolon, that is, consisting of three strophes, to which at the end is connected a a gift and he came to the two different parts of the meter that constitute the dicolon ctum this gives at least an aptitude for the most important harmonies from form-1 you give For this type of meter has hidden in itself a kind of harmony so dry for the Tyrone poets are wont to sing this in a different way; a clear sign in the greatest sense of the same kinship with Music; differs from of the former hendecasyllabophaleucio, because it is pure chords chorooslambofque, this is also consistent with dactyls&anapostis, These are the hymns in the Breuiario Romano: Ijie Confessor worshiping the Lord, The hymn is also customary to be recited on the feast of St. John the Baptist. As if the loose fibers resonate The mirage of your famuli Only the polluters are guilty San cry John The most famous fané meter, on which occasion Guido Aretinus He found figured music, as shown in the books of the fusée Joh Jol'. I was NotE metrometers are attached here. Note at this point the well-known metrometers of Phaleucius Sap- phicisjvti Sapphica phaleucijs to be accommodated without scruples poster. Adoni) but in the attached tristrophe you will take the notes of metrometers from S. i. huius, v Iambic Hypponacteum can be accessed by any that's the way it is. Ternos Vetufli Congiosfalerni He was the powerful nephew of Romulus A bold ruler, judge of kings, Metrometer Wisdom figs of the song O, O
TT? ? -orrrttm, ROO O OO. J O CR Re IOO K OO O O OS etc Third: Lib. Vili- Musuraia Mirafica The third idendecasyllable Alcaic dactylic is vul go Horatianum, eq that Horace had no gene of poetry it is often called An example follows. You see how tall the white snow is or afte, and let them no longer bear the burden
When this type of meter has the penultimate bre- true, not the metrometer of the proceeding hendecaiyllaboru they cannot be applied, but notometrometrovtri Adonijah and the dactylics together will give Horatian songs nis known metrometers. as it appears here and in the region. I
Hendec metrometer Horatian syllabi. -rr rtt t
O O O O O-LO O O OQO O y y O yOO. yO a. oooa. c? oo. ?o cf o O O O. yOO. y O c P o o
Of the meter dodecasyllaho Odecafyllabum is often followed by Afclapiadoum Choriambicus with two choruses, of which kind is the one following that of Horace; : Atauis issue meccenas to the kings Why do you put me in lyrical vats? Sublime series ver tic is der a. Is this known as a metrometer? they are the same as when he proceeded decasyllabi metrometres, vt still dodecafyllabon fiat, quarta-, the note in all progressing metrometers is to be divided into You will be two hundred years old, and you will have known metrometers for Asclepius as is clear from the example Porrò whatever glass syllables run meters, that's the torso from those who proceeded, it was either compound, or so many feet varied he obtains the status of the Musician of the poem, and after the Hexa- meters, pentameters, and many other Lyric genres, which I consulted we leave it; If, however, anyone wished to compose them, it was said that he should write one letter it would be necessary to keep the tenor by the foot; Verù visà mature verse suitable for music rum, nothing remains but, as here also some combination of the same composition let us establish If, then, you cite Adonius Spondous, you will have a Pherecracy poem If you extend the bond again from the dactylic gift, you will have a Glyconic meter. If you continue with this same pledge, the Anacreontic Iambic will be born. If you join the two Adonias together, an Anapostic will be born. If you join two dactylic Adonias together, you will have a choriambic Asclepiadeus If Adonio and Xerisadon are dactylicum, you will have Alcmanicus dactylicum Horatian. If, however, you proceed to the Anacrontico spondous, you will have a third meter, that is Horatianus, or the Iambic Archilochus.
The spondous profixus Anachrontico generates the Alcmanic iambic-. The same prefix in the Iambic Archilochus generates the hendecaphyllum phalleucus. You see, then, that the foot of the foot, thus added to the poem, produces another femper, that the business with the infinite is close to combination, and cannot be produced any further, fcd I decided to leave it to the consideration of the curious reader. But whatever we have said here only known metrometers are to be understood. I will tell you more about these things in practice composition jirtis Consoni, jj Dissoni
In everything to the scientist)1, give there vn& prin chip ale fun damn Order Taboo larum for Cani. o- his wife tion wonderful mvsvrgia part EXHIBITING MVSARITHMORVM MELOTHETICORVM PRAXIN. C A P V T I. About the author's aim organization. We have promised to deliver the method in the previous ones, which every one, even unacquainted with music, to pursue the knowledge of composing could arrive, at this point we wanted to pay the promises where before, in which we will explain our coming. By frequent experience I learned, one in all, and all in- There is one thing that must be observed to be contained in a wonderful way in everything but with the faculties and faculties there is one principle, to which a fruitful analogy is made. if all the rest were recalled, I had looked more shrewdly; but that without the perfect Not being able to deal with the science of birations, I founded the art of combination my mind? exhibiting the senses, the principles of all sciences, thus through various orchestras with the eyes of the representative, it could be seen more easily than with their help in a short time to arrive at an exact knowledge of all things: with such a wonderful combination I found the power of things in all things; so I found it most of all in Music; Don't miss anything else it seemed rare, except as the principles of Music, more fully explained in the previous ones, here in the method tell us the tables which we shall call Musarithmos, or harmonic numbers,
which having been conceived in his mind, he immediately sent orders to leave. But let there not be anything in Music, which also hides the ignorance of Musicians; We have composed three lyntagmata of tables in which several Pinaces are melothetic whatever was rare and excellent in all kinds of melotletic music, or compositions ed cttdine, by what method? it follows, we have said. First, the Syntagma, contains ten pinaces or tables in which each Musurgia is performed we present poetical or metrical poetry, thus that you can compose a melody on the basis of the petition. Heptaphyllabos pedesj we understand in this Pinace only polysyllables, quo rum penultimalongaest, vt the table itself? the forehead points; but at the foot of the columns Are they familiar? metrometer measuring given feet Pinax II presents to us the Musarithmospedum of polysyllabics correponding to trometers and vnitui, the penultimate of which is short. Pinaxl II. presents to us the Musarithms for the meters of Adonijah, dactylic, etc oven? they are: The joys of the world, Take away the light. pinax IV He presents Musarithms for Iambic Euripides and dactylics, the form of which is that most decanted hymn Aue maris stella for such a verse there is no problem. oppo this board? you will complete the desired melody: the rest is a smaller table of its own, from the place ex they will fold Pinax V. presents Musarithmos for Anacreontic meters whose form is, ter quater quefelix, one with well-known metrometers and all correpondents, in calce co added to the trees. Pinax presents Musarithmos for Archilochic iambics with eight syllables; some of whom Lib. VUl Musurata Mirafica.
the form of which is, Come, the Creator of the Spirit, and we have placed the body in one of the four columns when tetrastrophisid by as many strokes as one with the known rnetrometer correfjpondé- to each and every one of them. Pine? : VII. contains Mufarithms for Iambic Archilochic enneafyllabis, quor& the form is, Amant 'vencnaparricide', but we have arranged them in four columns teta- strophes next to four strophes, one with the corresponding rnetrometer marks What did I say? show contains Mufarithms for decasyllabic meters, the form of which is ver that pig to Prudent; : The Great Creator of all things by the columns of the tetrastrophe, notes metrotnetrasin was added to the kick, disposed of. it contains Musarithmos prometris Hendecafyllabissiue PhaIeucijs, quoru it is a form, glorious Virgin Mother of God; next to the four-pointed columns trometrisin arranged in shoes. X. contains Mufarithmos for faffic meters, next to the tetrastrophe columns and arranged in order with known rnetrometers. contains the Mufarithms for the meters of the Asclepiadei Choriambic dodecaphylla- twice, whose form is Give the patrons of the kings next to the columns of the tetrastrophe order not even with known rnetrometers, arranged Syntagmasecondum, contains VI. We present flowery and artistic Musarithms, I. contains Mufarithms for Adonijs and dactylic meters, florid and artistic with the progress of the words, one with the notes of the rnetrometer and each Mufarithm annexed, located II. contains Mufarithms for iambic meters Euripedans, Heâafyllabis, fl with a laugh and an artistic development of words? one with known rnetrometers for each Musarithm annexed, arranged III. contains Mufarithms for Anacreontic meters Heptafyllabis, florid arranged by the artistic progress of the voices by the notes of the metrometers attached to each place. IV. con tinet Mufarithmospro meters of Iambic Archilochic octosyllabic, flo with a laughable and artful voice arranged in an unequaled progression through the notes annexed to each one. Kcontinet Mu fari thmos pro metris Encasyllabis decaly liabis florido ar arranged by the progress of the tified voices, Pine VI. contains Mufarithms for Sapphic and Phaleucian hendecasyllable meters, arranged in a florid and artistic style by means of well-known metrometers attached to each one.
The third syntagma contains the Pinaces tree, which, however, I decided to omit in the work. the mouse for reasons to be opened later in its place; not only Mufurgia's poetry but also Rhe- Syntag. III. adapted to the toric, with which by syncopation or ligatures, artifice-j the progress of figures, all Music; we express gratitude contains the Mularithms of polysyllabic feet, which are known almost to each one We have attached metrometers. II. contains the Mufarithms of the previous feet. III. it contains the Mufarithms of lyncopations, and various ligatures and more of the principal, and of those more apt to be excited. IV. contains the Mufarithms of artificial fugues with which the beginning of some câ- tiles can be installed artificially. V. contains the Mufarithms of Polyphon, that is for Mdothesiapluri, as to be established in four voices. Pine VI. contains melothetic Mufarithms in both recitative and comic style, theatrically adapted, procreating chromatic and enharmonic style of music? com containing the system of placing. And with these three syntagmatics, whatever in the various Musicians elegant, beautiful And we grasp the emotional merit, vt in the progress of the work the reader with admiration will see cons In which con- fittac new put this together the reason What Palim piety The composition of our new Mufurgia, especially in the artifice of the columns by a combination of lotactics, from any kind of fact necessarily always a new result bit harmony, so that as the compositions of this kind are infinite, so are these also infinite a diversity of monic variations is born, e. g. for the whole world from the earth to the firmament can be more easily filled with sand than with God the richness of the harmonies resulting from this would be exhausted, nay, if all the writers of the whole mu God from the world coditofemper incu to the description of the harmonic combinations of this kind they had eaten, but had not yet exhausted them; True, hee alone is the mystery of numbers butis, when they are known, to pursue them further we will demonstrate the fuse in part; that also I will check the slander of the to come out through the same. We do not dwell on ignorance of the truth of these things, I give the truth itself he will gain experience. Whoever, then, dares to turn these columns into mobile tiles according to the rules in the fourth part of this to be preferred, numbers harmo he knows how to properly transfer the nicos into the melotactic scale, he also knows how to give any tone to with whatever words he may compose whatever artistic modules he knows situation, just as in Algebra Logistic, following the regular trend of paradoxes he completes the elucidations of certain questions, with that ease, that is, working himself, what he has done, ne let it be known, that the unexpected effect of the logistician is produced by scarcely thinking, so here is the rule Melothetis also followed the tenor of the sect, yet the desired harmony will emerge. It is true that we should not suspend the reader from listening any longer to the artificer) of our Mufurgici ar let us come nearer. G A P V T II. From the Requisites to Melodie I will become ours Musarithmic. Vsarithmum, vt has been said in the definitions, we say nothing else than certain a certain aggregate of harmonic numbers, by which I measure by notes tras applied to the mufarithm is brought out in perfect harmony; they are raised to be represented. Requirement I let go of the Phonot. Vm all mathematical science finds its advantages in pointing to the truth I will give, as in the vagueness and many obscurities of opinions I am subject to disputation to spin; to the demonstrations of meliùs perceptivendsfenstbilibus them signs it was absolutely necessary; Hence points, surfaces, bodies, numbers, and other characters Did they find infinite wisdom? The teachers, who wrote on the paper, the sense of the mind rerumq; they would reveal the meaning of the concepts. This is not unlike the reasoning of Mufurgi, ad to bring into action the speculations of demonstration and the senses to be suggested, signs They found a certain way, by which the sonic and the imperceptible signs of the visible they would become acquainted with the site. We must put these theories into practice
first we order the phonotactic palimpsest. But Palimpsestus is nothing else how leathery is that membrane made from the skin of an ass, on which boxers without a writer) li wares are composed here and there, and with which the modern musicians are very much superior to all this for in this matter it is easily written, so that what is written is easily erased. Phono v
Anis Conjom, Discord I do not know, especially at the beginning of this book I wanted to add here, to see some of the to whom the statins, seeing these things, object to the music of women birth Signing of the Tenor Pentagram Sign of the High Pentagram grams Lib. V1IL Mirafica. We call it phonotactic because the individual voices in it through their pentagram (so for we call those linear which are musically known as harmonic intervals are inserted to be indicated) through the stairs, the doors are adapted to each and every voice meeting. A hard song with a natural flow. A soft nue net song. ct= Go out ZZI
The ear is marked by the pentagram chiefly by three signs, and the principles of the musical scale they call such, and they are F. C. The symbol F or the beginning of the scale in the pentagram The base is placed either in the middle line or in the fourth or in the fifth. In transposing the song with them it is mostly placed in the middle, and then the base is sounded deeper. If it is placed in quar that line then enters the medium and the voices maximally natural semitone lower indicates the nation; Finally, in the fifth line, which is rarely done, the deepest miditone à preceding infer io remaci e notes in Follow this base có- the signification of the rest of the words, as is evident a little before. And this is the first the seal, which they wish to be hard or natural. The other tzsi is soft which they call fidiam And it differs in no way from the preceding, except that I apply to each of the words in the appropriate space natur is clear in the second order. It Note this for the reason that vbiciirtltqhoc ffgnjmifprin pofitSnase- pènéS, 4hiFclauem to be nouerišV'ÀB for this up or down, counting baş gate to sanem modu! a: ii)avm spcritùr. 'dduémfflus 8Sfeliflfe?
then by counting up or down you will come to the notice of any other person he sought with nails; That in Alto or Concra-Tenor Canto also be offered. In the canto, however, you see the fme voice in the upper part of the line on which the closing G is placed, of the rest You will wish for the seat of a pillar, but you are ignorant of this music The whole system of phonotactic palimpsest has been added here. chef Cantus Pé- log High Penta a gram Tenor Pé- log BafisPcnta- a gram Consonance, qjttifioni
Chard Beristnus siueroarù modi stgnandisyftematis sound tactical.
For a song For a song For a song For a song For a song For a song For a song for a song Hard na tural I Soft na- I Hard not J Soft not 1I Hard noni1 Soft not IIHard tra- natural natural natural, j natural placed placed
And these are the ways of signing voices here and there from Musicians usurped above whom us-ta- on which baifm and foundation we will base our Mufurgia, and however others
or pticato igitursystcmatephondtàico-iamad let us approach the second requirement.
-al tnsmSiiSnjstoiqcdtB ómbqup t$diio4 i mil aimmo -datteri cullili immnjp: RcqUliltUîll II. jsmiiq ib 5td âupiA. 13is. q olusq start enjdonogrctphica, The preceding phonotactic system is a certain material "dipandaruhfprmcipiujntahoc not undeservedly formal that principle ap- 'est, quam Tones juxta diapason Ipecies im ccilutòîiiš every tòrio pròp. rijS) a fruitful representation of its harmonic numbers True, instead of more fusible words, here we put the whole list for you, O eyes: not in any way In the preceding books we have dealt with the tones and their nature and condition, but here again cjjiiâ'ji. . ms, îihon n i nsucnn lt- a:
ŽilSIg mÙÎOMp, iiiir'. ijfri: : njffhnp. nUii 3; d
'The table Lib. Cheap tìMuJurgta onographic table. -OuO As tas To ours of war things Happy wanderer Laughter movement Hilarious Ams- nut More than that ligiofi enjoy Sad what light up you would next to so
confidence full Soft vain Great fig tree Or go country hemes Names na anti which lydian Hypo sleeping Phry right Lydius Dorius Dorius Hypo- phryg. Myxo- lydtus Hypo- mix Lydia Ionian Hypo- lonius Iastius Hypo- cheaper Signs tio Soft Soft Hard Soft j Hard Hard Hard Hard Soft Soft Hard Hard Soft Toni
II XÎO Jliv CtjtiJV 'I went We thus weaved together this tonographic table with some mysterious artifice, vt tasprorsus combinations of harmonic modulations with very few columns com- Notandj. we will take it, we will come to this Tonographic table with a not undeserved basis foundation ca of our whole Musurgice can be said to be wonderful We call the ecclesiastics and the ecclesiastics we call twelve, so that nothing may be curi- so the melothets lacked an immense variety of modulations. But not with rigor let the Tones be undergoing perfect changes; For the rest of the day, Toni wanted the same thing they fall into the void, or by some other method of change of the hard into the soft, than the transposition of the vo cant asici, they take their own difference, as it will later be called; the natural order of the tones in the table the order of the numbers is not as good as the difference between the intervals it would be clear: you could name each one by a suitable name; The old ap We have applied pellations to each one, each according to the nature of each one but if you wished to animate the harmony, you would find the corresponding tones you We set a tone for each one (hard or soft), i. e. if anyone had a hard tone The character of the past; I sang hard at the right time; vt quoq; couenienti no mine every one. mus, each one's nature, viz. viz you long to animate the souls, find the answers, that is, of joy, of love, of co- passion, dolofs, mourning, disintegration of the mind, religion, vanity, ferocity, indignation, if and a thousand to the hearts of men by stirring them up. Na vti modulation juxta first I don't know what effect it has on people, on religious piety. and to incite the morals of the gods, so that against militarism and ferocious and it is the characteristic of the sixth tone to raise the sparks of the soul. In the first true column in order closed by the seven letters ABGD E F G. indicated, like quandarstotius opifici] no We put the soul and the leader of Sir Musurgicus; for h#c is a column of tones running through, each one in some tone of the intervals with the nails it manifests its guarantee; as will be seen later in practice. nidnV require To be warned about Tactfl. Artis t&lagrue Finini, DiJJorii Requirement III. On the value of notes (f the measure of time.
From Mnisic imperirusin this Mufurgicus found some delay in our business ret we call the metrometers we have decided to set the value here. Since then it is the greatest of harmonic motions (which are all in one modulation many words come together) of variety, so that some are fast, some are slow, some are slow let them proceed at a slow pace, the sight of Musurgis was a sure sign to avoid confusion, according to which the singers should direct their voice, to order, which indeed is a sign of the cune as if it were a certain rule that, having lost the harmonic motions, it is not immobile met, therefore at the motion of the hand or of any other object held by the hand They put it in a state of motion or depression, which they called oiv&Qifcnv; They call the Italians the battuta, Boethius applauded, and the other touched and measured, we call the Chronometron. Co and to stand this measure in two parts in one position, as kim, in the other elevation the hands, as the ancients say, will respond to the movement of the blood in the body, which Galen
cvsroAn calls It is therefore certain that there is one pulse from diastole and systole veins; thus from the arsi and thesi the entire time or measure is completed; chrono but the characters of the meter are well-known: ÌII5 music$ is commonly visited, the value of which I am pointing out here we put our eyes before your eyes. Table I Notaruml The former note denotes two measures; the second one; measure the third middle the fourth is a fourth measure: a part, a fifth an eighth, and a fourth one a tenth It denotes the sixth part of the menfur; by the decreasing portion, thus bisfumed by the females, it constitutes a curd; At least twice he established a femininity; Semiminima bisfumpta minima; Shot taken twice riiinimdm i Semifufa, finally, the spindle was taken twice; Again half of sixteen, club fetnimihim$ 4. minima du, vnifemperfemibreuiequiualent. Verùmh? c in type se? , open to the two daughters
u n nnw w w u club t t t t t t t t t t t stay t Î t T minim$ f Smallest t Semi-short
Where are the best things to be perceived about the time here I have something to say. It is therefore the perfect time for Music hil other than a certain and determined quantity or fr It is clear that the content of the process is vt. And it is comes at the beginning of the modulation marked with this character Imperfect O-quo indicates a short modulation in all effects, perfect, that is, to squialere three fembreui, è to the side; but when it is used at the beginning of the song that is to say to the two women, the truth with which they were lost in their progress it was said, we only wanted to recall these words to memory. You are from Pau. fa li
No matter how many voices are in motion, it happens that from time to time it is still. From this they are thought to be known, by which the phoenixes are indicated, as much as the rest of the time they must know, and call these marks groci mtuout, the Latin name changed to pauses. It's true nothing else seems to be required of these intelligent men than a synopsis of the pauses, which you have I present it here.
Table U Your pauses.
3: :ir, tii. ay! .Ofjfhiq The lines inserted in the pentagram represent the pauses in this diagram, the fuprapofi numbers? They indicate the value of the pauses, that is, how many touches must be made the first sign of the pauses shows eight touches and seven quiets, the third six, quar these five with the second, and so on to the last; For the last one he showed quietly pores, the penultimate of the time; I should have lasted the penultimate or half of the season But here they are very easy and known to the first Tyrones; so also to be explained to others I did not take it, I only put it in order to prove it to the Musician who was completely ignorant of it by some introduction.
Requirement V Mnjarithm information. We do not say anything about the rhythm in this place, except that it is counted as harmonics tis metrical feet of the correspondents and inpinacesseu tables of the method the case of the reduced aggregate; With this new title especially applied, the art np- it was thought to be honorable. For the Mufarithmus is the same as (iwxKot âeAtm id eff nu the accumulation of mere sounds in harmonic periods, aptiflima vt later vi- due jyf %4pUa'Còufmy &TÀjpmi it will be due, whose division of the cimi in the first chapter is sufficiently detailed if they enumerate We don't want to go any further, but to demonstrate the practicality of each and every one of them, no We wanted to hang the leather on the ropes, and immediately we wanted to surround ourselves
G À P V T I IL De Counterpunctosimplici how is the first Syntag- with the Musarithms to which also Music can be done without skill
Yntagma I. preser io contains duospinaces polysyllaboru Mufarithmoru, primus the pinax contains the penultimate long polysyllabic; The second penultimate polysyllable, brei, with the help of which every counterpoint can be made simple and easy even for the quinces Astuspraxi took a little time to explain, but we promised him the syntagm of Musarithmoruno as more simple than the rest, thus making my beginning from the easier and simpler ones
we would feel difficulty in following the knowledge in the rest, and not in the didactic business a'0cJhg Shall we proceed, following the style of the mathematicians, of the whole Mufurgia? our technique through it seemed to point out some practical propositions or problems. Then the matter let us be with the good God. Ihl: Problem Given any of the words on the theme of q) in what tone, the requested song to compose a simple counterpoint from the first pinace. YES then to whom artišshowra? I decided to take a simple counterpoint experiment first of all the Phonotadic Palimpsest next to the second chapter of this par- ponédVróo- tesrequisita must first be prepared. Second, the Tonograph table so he chooses a tone appropriate to himself. Let him therefore implore the grace of the divine God, the first theme of the words: Come, the Creator of the Spirit. Quce words with hope confidence in they denote the divine mercy, with these at most the sixth tone will be squared or hypolydius. as the title of the title shows A pentagram of voices in a palimpsestophonotatic soft song will mark the character, that then, in the region of the column, I took the keys separately on the tonographic table so you will apply the column of the Sixth Tone. eBonsbilqx) gstî-iâtiv šypcup zii. :irnh I didn't go there.
mnìio: #i no rm: upl[tijmbib imtkîirlin pacti ac t mumdiiiW ii M. disirai; :sd -un if himahi jua. ivn3fîO; i 3v sfniSiiqe zibaaraiiqxa tib ninâ a ìioìonol mmotsm -idsfe Prepare Lib. Vili MuJurgiaMivifca; ; i ittiiZOV21H. Paradigm
â Z? I; Filter Locker Tone Soft
Having therefore prepared the phonetic palimpsest and the scale of the keys corresponding to the tone selected tooth, we distribute the pentagram of four words into as many spaces as in the assumed the mate are syllables, as the scheme teaches, then you will be able to order melothesia in two ways. Either by dividing the words of the theme, or by combining them, or what is the same thing, by several columns correponding with the words of various themes, or through one entire column to a foot riod assumed the theme of correpondcnti. For example, when the subject is assumed to be re- the following trastrophon, as if consisting of four periods.
Fill above, grace With which you create Hipefìora. t each strophe or period should be eight syllables j from the eight-syllable column pi- you have octoiy llabi excerpts four mufarithms corresponding to four strophes, if- They are to be followed in a straight or broken order; Mufarithmos i. as follows here. u: i; yJj-r. miii n: v-nur. Li't-ì
Uvt M usarithmm I. Stanza L Stanza. .Stanza III Stanza IV
Note that the first four in each Mufarithm of numbers you will strike, which which Toor voices, Cantui, Alto, , Tenor, Bassiemper correlpondent Bassin indeed vlti- but the series always and immutably represents the foundation of the rest there the three voices may be changed at the will of the composer. For Siue the first series for Cantu, for the Tenor, or the Alto, or if you depute the second or third series of numbers, around it is the same, We have described as the natural raxta Iiteras and the region apposed: for by C the supreme voice is siuo for in QantuS} it is indicated by A Altus, by T. Tenor, and finally by B. Basis. you should observe the transects and place them before the tepalimpseslus, prepared a little before one with the scalàclavium of the sixth tone of the column applied, as in the proceeding paradigms it is clear By doing this, you will thus wish for melothesia from Cantu inim by doing When therefore in the first series of the first Musarithm Melothesia of the first voice it will be repeated many times, see to whom in the column of letters as Cantus give or a number of five; and you will find the same answer give C. in the pentagram) therefore the Cantus in the space to which C
you see the ram inscribed, according to the S. syllables you print eight points, cc
and I would have the song recorded.
Second, for the voice of Alti, see to which these numbers correspond in the column of the sheet of paper and you will find that corresponds to letter E. Therefore, in the parallelogram Alti jn spa do or sign the letter E, print points Tenarius follows; See to whom Melothesia Alti answered in the gathering of the letter, deat 8. &inueniesF. terra F. you will print a point; when indeed after the octonary nu- only in the series of numbers two later occur deat literceJB print two other points in Ipacio E, and when we return let the number of the Alti musarithm be an octant, you will print the last point in the space designated F. , and you will have the perfect voice of Alti. Let the Musarithmus of the third tenor be see which letters are in the column of keys let the binary number correspond you will find that it corresponds to G. And so in the space of the Tenor Pentagram, the space of the letter G represents the Tenor Melothesia, to three puncta iiixta triple binary in the Musarithmo Tenori oc you will print the current i then see which letter is in the filling pad answer find A; The ternary autecus is placed twice, impri- GGGAAGGA mes in the Tenor's pentagram space siterà A signati in celiai is or in the following two points, and again two other points in G. for two binaries follow res, the letter G. signifying that, finally, the last number is ternary, A. literg If the column corresponds to the key, print the last point in the space marked A, and I would have a finished Tenor's voice,
Fourthly, in exactly the same manner as the Musarithmus iBasis contains these numbers and in the column of keys let the letter C. answer; you will print in penta three points assigned to the gram Basis space of this literg; then with z occurs in the Musarithmi series; but three in the column of keys answered Melothesia Basti deat A, print in the space of the base of the pentagram the letter A. represented by whether punctumydeindeob octonary immediately in the Musarithm se- hundredth point in the space of the pentagram F literg designated CCCAFCCF (for literTzifF. corresponds to the column of keys. ) posteàlia two points for a double quinary immediately following two other points in the pentacle space gramliterte C. deputatos enimC. literg answers) finally for literte F. re you will print the last point in the pentagram in the space of F. ; and I would have The base voice completed, and then the harmonic intervals of all four voices, are determined by certain points. Nothing therefore remains but, viz. meters of clothes What you will accomplish with this practice. If the counterpoint is simple, and consequently it is equal to time, if ile which is the same in which the syllabary and note correspond exactly to the note, and so on each note in the four words belonging to the same syllable had the same value; you will receive at the foot of a column of octosyllabic characters any series of characters, unless er rate Lik Vili, Musùrgia Mirifica. is made fair, it will necessarily have as many marks as the points of the fspaces of the pentagram printed put the suntjas and notes above the base points in order then hafce the same notes psi- ctis Tenorifi the same points of the High, the same deniq; you write the points of the song; have However, you will carefully observe that they do not impose on their fpacs the punctuation marks indicated precisely tur. verù look at the paradigm presented in the proceeding, which you he will teach exactly. Exactly the same reason method for the rest of the fme periods throughout You will animate the harmony of Mufarithmossuos. For in all the rest it is exactly the same will be practiced. given the theme of the words, and a certain tone, the counterpoint of the simple We made haste, which had to be done. Melothesia follows. With the Spirit of the Avenger, fill the bosoms of heaven with your visit
"m ir s-r r, .j. l zzoèizxiJHxzii ee? e$e
True, in this place the practical Musicians would object, for this reason the same beautiful
would produce, and consequently not that of the harmonies, which the Author extends, in a variety of ways tate will result. With these we will easily close our mouths, where we can marvel at the variety or We will demonstrate this with a single example. Therefore, it is a false objection It will then be clear that it is capable of infinite variation, whence we first prefaced it. I say, therefore, that this theme can be varied fourfold. First of all, the reason not the transposition of the Mufarithms; Secondly, by reason of tones. A third reason is to be noted to be attached Fourthly, in the manner of the columns, as by the different feet, which or it has a single trick, it admits of infinite combinations; but let us examine each one more closely. At the beginning of this tetrastrophon this theme is completed in four polyphonic Musarithms; it is certain on account of the quaternary) number vti in the first part of this Musurgix Probi. i. fusè it has been shown that there are twenty four times variable, that is to admit combinations thus As a result, a new harmony emanates from the former. For any of the said four Musarithmis can occupy the first place six times, for the rest of the variables, which and when all things have been speedily demonstrated, we leave the Reader to him. So this is possible the theme of the tetrastrophon in the early twenties is changed four times so that the harmony is always the same. The serous ratio of the Tones is again changeable twelve times. For the scale of the clay mo bilis moved to each column of Tones, essentially different harmonies it will produce a variety of tones. If itaq, you lead in iz. we will now have mu tations, with which this mentioned theme of the tetrastrophon is variable. Thirdly, it may be changed according to the ratio of the different marks and according to the iz series of marks in the kick a column; placed in the first place next to the simple position, zqzS. juxtacombina- but the relations of the characters to each other, made in any way (they are born tions and in so many possible ways this only tetrastraphon is variable in rigor. What New hzc I composed it is methodical able at last it is a variation you Variation ra I will hit the road muse rhythm Artis ìAagn# Conson, God blooms All the things which I have shown in the first book have been amply deduced from the superuacaneu m I am we will show all this care in the above-mentioned place, viz The country is not in the least obliged to doubt twice, and ought to be. infinite as a variable, if that is to say through distinct pe- riodímetrical feet column? be ordered I have tried to clarify the matter by example, so let it be. Problem A L I V S M O D V Through the difiinfia members, the syllabus and the subject matter are divided into modules to animate The other way is through the distinct members of the period, or according to the metrical columnar feet a collection of adaptations; that according to the assumed theme, having broken up the syllables, you will begin to arrange the columns in this pac When the theme is assumed, let it be: Veni, the Creator of the Spirit, and the first word of the theme, Veni you will set up a column of bistiles; but the second voice, the Creator, should be the penultimate tristle. long, you will receive the penultimate column of long trisyllables in the first pinace, appo- and even to the column of bistillabs. When indeed the last voice of the Spirit is a trisyllable penul fear of breuis, you will receive in the fertile pinace the penultimate column of trisyllables of breuis, and you will order it to the previous column, and you will have three columns next to the three stro- the feet are arranged. Note, however, that at this point it is not always necessary to take complete words for each pe dibus, but to be able to approach one syllable to one word, one or two, or as many as you wish from the word ce immediately following, or even two words combined into one, one something lysyllable word can refer. Quadruple is again infinitely variable. In order that they may not understand these things better, it has seemed to me to attach one example from it you would understand our mind in the rest. JOn r ih Hay Come Creator Spirit Creator Spirit Creator Spirit Spirit Spirit I came, the Creator I came to the Creator V eni Cre tor Spirit I came Spirit
Here is a diagram of the variation of the theme for the feet; For the first thing is that he has himself by way of manner
The octogenarian was shown in the preceding example; According to the method of three foot. Tereus in the manner of two feet, the first of which is bistyllus, of course The second hexasyllable came, and I saw him and the Creator of the Spirit, very much of the word. Fourth! it has at the beginning the pcntasyllable pest, and at the end the penultimate trisyllable of the breu. Why? tana with broken and cut words, at the beginning it has a trisyllable foot, see cet VeniCre deindebistyUabum the third trisyllable Spirit. The sixth of the abstracts with the following VQCabuJo two syllables, which he joins with the first to complete the tetra-foot syllable, remaining in the second tetraphylla tor Spiritus. Septimuml, y eròvt medium let te- a trisyllable borrows a syllable from the last word. You see, therefore, how, on account of the diversity of the feet, which we conclude on the assumed theme can cause changes. So you have seen the changes, now to the point we are returning to the paradigm. Let it be Librili, o&îusurgìa Mirifici j-p Therefore let the purpose of the theme be ytfuprteni Spirit, unite the individual pe while the columns, it was said. After this is done, arrange these columns in any way sows, as long as the Musarithms always answer to the Musarithms, always the new one It is necessary to issue a warning. V. g. in a little way before the three cplumni for melothesia having proposed, let us take the first three pinnaces in the columns of Musarithmorsi, of which the next corresponds to the diagram.
When this is done, place before you a phonotactic palimpsest Byss. with each column of notes the columns of the sixth tone, vt prius; ap- II, folded, look at the numbers relating to Cantus zz to which letters they answer in the column of keys, toT r, G; z. A, 6, Di 7jEj y, Ci4, Bi A. you will find to answer jim- therefore pressing the points in the pentagram See number rus today iti colurpna clauiu letteris respó- Veni deât, find answer tbS K, F, to Ej tb D. And finally t&T Ej printed in the pentagram Others in the spaces of the said letters with these points, you will have the places of the characters. Not otherwise in Tenor ScBafis Musarithmis in Pen You will proceed to transfer the proper log, after which each foot is marked in Have the corresponding columns of the each be attached to each word perfect harmony A true example will teach you better than I or a man I will be able to declare in your words,
'Creator Trisbre III. zz r
Spirit Go! .VI. Toni Key Tone
And in this same way you will arrange the rest of the tricks in order. Each example If he has understood these facts well, he will find absolutely no difficulty in the rest of what follows. You see, then, how easily any melothesia can be facilitated by this practice. And do not be ignorant A musician of our art could object to us, I would always sing the same song, they will easily agree with him about the almost infinite changes of the proceeding paradigms we demonstrated. For it is stated, in the transposition of these three columns, variaq; application of a much greater variety of combinations than in the previous one rere: The changes of these are so great that they are scarcely capable of being comprehended by the human intellect. Siigiturè of the three n columns varied by the application of such inconceivable changes va a variety is born, such as from or even by the transposition of the columns do we believe the emanation? It is true that the idea of the power of silence is generally paradoxical with it to be iniiolued, which we have taken to be declared by the fusiis. Just give a sample at this point we will see, by what reason the haze is subject to the change of the different Tones in the same way essential indeed at first in all tones except which due to intercurrent- a false fifth, he does not hold this clause; unless corrected by É. The great art of Confitti Disson These tibeles to all to be applied can ex- ceptis IV. fiE V. with whom no all Mu- farithmi co- fire Jfj; îJ'IOlij? -iL'i i LiHn iii (ii Olissi
TA G M A I Melothetic mufarithms. PI N A X I Melothefias at the end of Oontrapunâifimpliris The f olysyllabic words have a long penulcima
you ìi il from wmbo; q 2Uciis! OxJ; ;u. :; p nv
-cv rnrjno -Biytisyyr I! núb; undressed UN there i
Note the corrcspondcntcs numbers of the Pinac.
n tîî î? r! TiOCjOpC
G" i Lib. Cheap She muttered wonder
Pinax II MELOTHETHIGVS. Simple counterpoint. Polysyllabic words: , qua; has the penultimate Breuetn.
Bilill. Trisyllus Tetraphyll. Hectafyl
The notes correspond to the numbers of the Pinac. .jO rtt rtt OO. yO? ft Ce0O L0j0o0 THAT'S IT
Mr Mr no rt u. COO
-t-oq oq. jHoqofl. 2aoo. yo
OOOH -fOHOqOB. Ijftf HÎ
Art Conson Disson First Scheme The change of the compound theme from the sixth to the first tone of the key- Anyone wishing to change this subject to the first tone, that column he applies to the column of the first Tone, and in the phonoctic palimpsest to the first mu tet charaâerifm soft song in hard, which stands by the removal of b, then carefully obseruet which letters. excerpts from the three columns of rhymes. For always the same Mularithmos ma we want to spin; that the greater variety of these may appear. For if in the pentagram I wrote fpa- You will print the points indicated by the numbers of the letters, and proceed with the notes next to them the paradigm of metrometers, as it has been said, you apply to each one; you will have harmony in tone first composed, essentially speaking to the sixth tone, as in the first example, follow it appears in this diagram Where the first note in the column of the tone of the first rat is that is the senario number attached to the scraper really b. who numbered t&B on the hill the nail should answer, always in place of the nails b. where and when it is found in the pentagram of any voice, know that I will not go to that one, instead of occurring b should be preferred soft, i. e. in na appears first in the first tone and in the fifth note of the High. and in the third note of the Tenor, which all they must be noted very carefully. For whatever we say in this place, impostcrumirreuo- they must be carried out with skill. Note, in the second column, that the number is marked with the sign S mitoni), and to indicate that wherever and whenever the pentagram of the voice C is located When it was found, the number of the first tone column in the column of keys indicates in that place where the note occurs, the sign Z must always be prefixed the following day ascended, or was final, or was immediately followed by a pause, by omitting but if it descends, it is only in rare cases, of which elsewhere. What also about the tone of others rum columns, in which or any other number marked with this sign was found, You know that it must be understood, you have an example in the voice of the High, where I noted the first and sixth you will find it marked with the sign S, immediately following the ascending note. In the voice of Cantus but you will find the last note that is final marked with this sign. A fruitful scheme I composed a variation of the theme from a soft sixth tone. But who would compose this theme in a pleasant and flattering style? he wishes to place, he chooses for himself the second tone, which will happen if he closes the column he applied to the column of tone hypodorij; For if I speak in four pentagrams Literally, the four Mufarithms are indicated in the column of keys, marked by dots, vt di Where is the metrometer, having signed, will the harmony of the new come forth? kind of nice by subbing, and in a flattering style, such as Sceunduston contains, composed, vt secun da column shows the following universal system: carefully observing the interim, vt wherever in the pentagram the four notes in the E key occur, b mol
le, by the number in the column of the fertile tone, to which you will find the knot of the ball, indicated next to it admonished the first one to proceed, give him a warning; siterà per gg indicated occur he laughs, you should always check X on a similar basis to this well-known one; If, however, I said that the following note whether it is final or final. You have an example of B. soft on the fifth note of Bass, and on the third note Tenor; gg semitone) but you have an example in the first and sixth notes of the Alto. exam II. tones V11L Miraculous jurpa, The third scheme. i uv c The change of the compound theme from the sixth tone to the third tone, I went on to say that someone would change the composition of the first theme in the sixth torio into the third a mournful tone, and suitable for sad things; It will get the intent) st the key applied to the column of the third tone of the phrygi j. For if in the pentagram the places of the letters indicated by the numbers of the Musarithms in the column of keys, pun when first, and then as it was said, he had signed with the known metrometers, another news will come forth the kind of song sought according to the nature of the tone, as the third column of the following list he teaches beautifully; observing, however, with all diligence the places of the Sgsemitonii, or even I b. according to the precepts indicated above.
Scheme four. You will apply the assumed theme to the fourth tone, st column, key to the column of the fourth tone. For if the places of the letters in the pentagram by nu with the mere points indicated by the Musarithms, and then you will sign the appropriate marks- a tone suitable for weeping and wailing will come forth; Video scheme tone IV. sequence Systema-, you Why should any one change the said song from one tone to another? in these four tones, if he has correctly understood the method, there will be none in the rest as well he will have difficulty eating Therefore nothing remains but a system of general change taking the theme according to the twelve tones, a single synopsis for the eyes of the curious reader for from this it will be clearly evident how to proceed with the rest. SjsJema 'immersale quo assumed the theme through XII. tones essentially changes l I. Tonijfiuedorij II. Toni hypodorius III. Toni Phrygis j jrtis Conson, Disson IV. Toni hypophrygius V. Toni lydij Tone hypolydij. In this tone he did not waver
X. Tons hypoionij XL Tons lasti) XII. Toni hypojastij. You have here a reader of one theme in all tones transformation in one system You can see the immense variety of Musarithm here demonstrated. who but if a different value of characters is added, a variety of the same changes emerges inconccptibihs, that all ideas here fusiùs show to you, but now say something about the value of the marks and about the change of time mouse
Scheme V A change in the characteristics of melometers.
By reading the first part of this book, the head of St. Ritè, he will easily see the changes elsewhere, the subject of which js a different time, scarcely being Estaijtern double te- perfect and imperfect pus, of which it was said in the third Requisite ifat, I don't want to be too long here, but finally I will explain how it is the theme of our various app can be loved We have attached the marks of the perfect tense to each column of the Mufarithms, which we call well-known metrometers, because of the numbers of the Mufarithms let the mere and tense correspond perfectly, and indeed the former without number of proportion noted; they signify the tense of the imperfects of the quintessence of time have a prefix, they are called not of the perfect tense, and are generally called triple. And however yt fuptà I said, ex-octomotaru with the absolutely infinite variety of emnety we are yet to be facilitated, so to speak, Mufui; - We have chosen only twelve of our group, as we have agreed to the above the variety of modulations to be protected will suffice. So our theme was first baked ptum in the previous system replicated twelve times, for it can be replicated as many times as it is applied For each of the four words, one of the twelve numbers of any series. That
As you may understand, it is to be noted that with this passage we are delivering a simple punctuation mark iaivov, that is, the cequal time proceeding, in which, the heir is known every four vo food will be applied; sitfssCere vnam' nxquatu or words to be applied which series, if he were to apply different words to each other, the whole of this series the nuns would be destroyed, since the time of Miiarithmis would not have been at all suitable for her. This is so that pre-noted, vt see the method of application, and here more perfectly p3Fefiatii'nt5sbasia- easy hceciemtibris ditiicWl Vârietas, ati-V&iitis in m o dulation ne asse ctu s' excited; For yti SjMma
Come Creator Spirit V. vJiit&upq Tisriison men Ariti Conson, Disson And so you see here n changes of characters, the edges of which are different and more important, others leaving innumerable others, which I leave to be added to the experts in Music. therefore whatever ex you will apply a series of twelve to the lower base, the same rule for the other words you will know to apply it tenor. I will sit in the perfect tense too Let us show the paradigm. The scheme of the sueTripU major.
zsErg Schema temporisperfeBi su trtpU minor, fiuehemiola. 3I5šâfc: :ptÌlšsE: :ii"išs5Ìr: flctniCKMsrSritus
Whoever, therefore, wishes to change the modulation of the imperfect tense into the perfect, is vo ces and notes will sign here in a polished method, and will also have a change from everyone For the rest, you will find a different time of this kind at the bottom of the tables, under this one tulus: triple major3 triple minor You will therefore be able to choose your vtramuis, but where you will be marked I would like you to continue in triple meters for each step, and not to mix it up in the imperfect pore, but in non-metrical words we leave the triple to the discretion of the composer. It is clear from these few words that I am not mistaken by fate, that our artist has wondrous strength, which is derived from the same number of three When mufârirhmbruriitièh is changed, so it is born into a race and a wonderful variety. However; therefore, the melothesia of the theme of the first SÈìieaffumpti was called, after all the rest For the mode of operation is the same in all, whence here the artist; It is thought to go over the method fully, so as not to repeat the same thing over and over again we will be forced to hesitate, so we will send the reader back here.
C npOift' v. Lib. Miraculous music.
CHAPTER V T I V Of the Muferithmic Canons, or Cautions in Melodie- using tic operations. The musicians could object to us, something in the practical environment of a musician to grind, that either we did not see it, or that I encountered other difficulties we could not be given, because we decided to add the canons of the whole art to the directors, who but with singular diligence, no difficulty will ever be met with, as noiL- it is easy for Tyro to overcome even -ws, canon i. Of CharaBensmis fentagrammonirti fitte about the way of signing voice in palimpsesiopbonot attic. Harmonic notes, which are called any scale, are given different seats on the pentagram nent, therefore, with caution, that sign must be used Lest then Tyro of this art in uncertainty he errs, so he will work to compose whatever melody he chooses first out of the twelve prescribed above, a tone suitable to the meaning of the words, as mentioned above is When this is done, let him see in the system of change the characteristics of the twelve tones of the pentagrams, fiue by which the arrangement of the keys or scale is in the column of the tone which-j chosen, and with this same characteristic he will sign his pentagram drawn in the palimpsest, if the character was hard, hard; if soft, I would still advise the Tyrones to be soft, by accepting that signature of the scalee, which they obtain in the system of vmuersalisex order nor the immediately following tones more suitable for voices; For if any one begs for that kind of scalze, what have the first Si three tones of the vine, here he will give voices, more of a quality and incongruous with the voices of the singers However, those who are offended by this type of signature must be left alone, and let them know
that we had here placed twelve tones, which had been visited here and there in the Church, and which I judged to be ours putting the best, not unaware of the greatest controversy about the quality of the tones, which In the following books we discussed fate. CANON Of the Musarithms and their organization.
We have declared that the Mufarithmus must be in the proceedings, for it is certain to be in harmony the aggregate of the numbers of the cores, as they contain each individual cell columns, distributed in a series of four numbers, the first of which he sings his song, the first voice, the fertile second that is the High, the third that is the third Tenorum, and the fourth quarter that is Basin; And you can't hit the Base immutable never take the place of another's voice, surely you will not take the place of anyone else's voice base can undergo. but you shall strike the base of the glasses three times, for choice, if necessity compels you, in- they may be exchanged in any way. I said, if necessity compels; For it is bound under certain conditions hence the tone, as I now hear each voice from the musarithms, now more deeply as you can heal, they are by exchanging words; V. g. fi Song or Tenor would be too high, either voice would have to be changed to High, and the voice of High would be Cantum or Tenor, namely al another time the other voice Let us show the true matter by example. In the vniuèrsaliscollina system all the voices, marked by the fifth tone, rise higher, therefore, to the meanness you should transfer a certain Canto into the Alto, and here it must be changed into a Canto, but the Tenor He will hold it below, and you will have your voices reduced to their natural state, as follows. IV.
Artis Magna Confont, Diffòni l. Prtternaturalis ll. ReduBa to natural breath, III. Signing of voices in nature High Voice in Singing changing this to High ji les exceeding the limits, having attained mediocrity.
mmi fWi Ititfi The voice of Cantus in Alto these changes into Cantus having attained mediocrity. 1 T"X them
'Iw-. v Jj VOv TPnnric The voice of the tenor medio- hcemutandce into high having gained courage. :iIrÎMTTrF i
l. o To be changed
Come on, Ofj! LUi-IIL here V I i! i hmm m
in Cantus V I I Cheap to be changed in the High to be changed KKZ in Cantus is, -mu? rà ibpi; ifl High. to be changed 7TÎ3TOj "; a. Mi He is to be thought in above ilEEilEši in below. to be changed
I put etc. Fil I. Mujurgìa Mirifica.
We have placed here columns, the first column shows the excess of the words of the old man the actual constitution of the ascendants; The second column of words relates to mediocrity shows the change of the leaders, so you see that the voice of the High is reduced to mediocrity Cantus must submit to the place, and Catus, as he has mediocrity, must give way to pain tall; But if the tenor has no mediocrity, I should go an octave below. If you strictly observe this rule, you will no longer have any difficulty in proportioning words culture of rgpcries; For it is thus compared to the words of nature, viz a diocrity, the change of it into another necessarily reduces it to mediocrity by excess, which the mutual transformation takes place especially in the Alto; for either the Tenor or the Cantus ex ceases, the other voice migrating to the High will be considered reduced to mediocrity; however, in the octave it suited the tenor better than the canto; deep as if he were going below the notes of the Basis, when it happened to the Tenor, then the Cantus with the Tenor he will be able to change his seat. I will continue here to clarify this constitution in more detail let them drink, as the third column shows, that is, more than each one would descend; then mu- How then they would be in the voices in the fourth filter corresponding to the first ones, so that is to say, the song of the voice through he points out On an equal footing; as the fifth column shows, if the voices went deeper than the blind then to be changed: they would be, into words such as the sixth column shows. namely Cautus in Al then Acus in Cantum, Tenor velin Altum or vti Basis to be changed in the octave below he would drink But when these examples are clear, we will not dwell on them. usually here two he could meet Tyrone twice, by which reason the statin changed his words. '
I answer that nothing is easier to do. For if the places of the keys or letters in the pentagram mi) The song, the same in the pentagram of Altus or someone else's voice, with the points noted signs, you will have a place. For there are places of the keys common to each of the four words nia, and it is exactly the same, whether you place the places of the High keys in Cantu, whether Cantus or Te you set the storm high; Whence it follows that in every Mufarithm there are three nines the series relating to the three remaining voices after Basim are indifferent, thus vt first fe ries as high as it befits the tenor, fecund and third as well for the song as for the high and you nori The indifference consists only in this, that in one voice from time to time a deeper or pro let them proceed further, and in this case the voices shall be exchanged in the said manner. True as Ty Let us give some satisfaction here; Let the voice of the Cantus be followed by the example from ex with the departure of the Luo to be reduced to mediocrity, this is to be changed from the High; so you will work with the first leader not The songs consist of F, the third in E, the fourth in C, the fifth in B, the sixth and the seventh in C, and the eighth in D so you will work in all other things; Where you will also note Tenor Cantu, so that they are similar, vt nul with absolute scrupulousness one can smoke for another; as in pentagrams only in one they are far away from the terinilos. Therefore, the only transformation from the other to the High must take place, which is from God with these words, it is very far from ditone or diatessaron. CANON III. Designate b b within the columns of jTons occurring. N columns of Tones occur from time to time in certain tones hxc signs Where we lay out, those letters, which by number to which bxc Jitera b. it is registered, to be indicated whatever they may be found in the pentagram, they must always be b. prxfiged, saying the same thing it is of the square of b, and of the sign Z of a semitone] major; for this is almost always in the number of af it is fixed; what letter then? by this septenary number is signed in the stair scale, no it also requires being affected by this sign, not always but when the following note ascends it hurts it is said, either it was final, or it had a pause following it; but see what I was about these signs We discussed it in the first draft of Change VI. tone, in the first Where examples We have given; of the universal system. Drus Maina Conson Disson Tenor base You see in this example that the last note of the song is the final one to be noted here; In Alto the true first, and this was done by the same sign. for since this is an example of a fruitful tone; yes if you apply the column of keys to the columns of the fertile tone, you will find this sign of affection. The letter F is to be denoted wherever, therefore, in the pentagram F runs, it is there known by this sign Affections must be placed, as it appears in the first and sixth note of the High. Moreover, in this tone, first, in number you will always find the b soft effe placed, which is reflected when E tat in all pentagrams, where these letters occur, there must be an affected note re letter b. In the first tone, however, he shows the note on the b string, however hard, b is soft yet to be marked, vt in the diagram of the first tone of the upper system is clearly clear, where quin ta note base b soft vti& tenor is considered affected by this sign. But here is a brighter light, When vtfufms deserve to be treated, why to other things. CANON IV. Of the election of goods. MnesMusarithmi to every twelve tones at will and promiscuously adapted nor they must and cannot, since there are many Musarithms, who are in certain tones because of the illegality of the intervals (about whose information we shall deal more later) occ usmus, applic they cannot Hence we would consult the convenience and ease of operation of the tones, to each of the columns we wrote the tones appropriated to the musarithms of the said columns; with which, without a doubt, all mistakes will be easily avoided. The fourth and fifth rarely They are in his eyes, and they are adapted to only a few Musarithms, I told him that he obeys them the occurrence of frequent intervals All the rest can come easily. Hence I suggest that Tyro should first practice his best in six tones, namely y. S. here
let them be the principal ones, and let them come together almost in harmony with the rest, for every harmony they will suffice for an abundance of modulation, nay, it can scarcely be assigned a song, and not next to it one of these six tones should be composed. If any one, however, to the rest of the fex also tones to ma We do not oppose a greater variety if we wish, as long as it has been said, cautiously, let him proceed. it will also be better for Tyre, as before in II. VI. let him practice his tone. 'massive'): vsi
ca- fst r Lil. rin, Musurgia. Mirifica. CANON V. Of illegal intervallu euitandU. It happens from time to time vt changing the tone, liter$ fall into illicit interludes $quc vt I would like you to be careful with all your efforts. For there are the greatest absurdities in Mustea, and the ears Illicit intervals.
In the first second column you see the fa, 3cfa against the miabfurdifllmum inter- the rampart was brought back by the change of the hard song into the soft one: In the third and fourth In the fifth and sixth columns, you will have illegal intervals in the soft cat, reduced by the change of ci tus soft and hard, having dropped vtroq; b, or from the hard in the soft vtroq; admitted, You see, then, on what grounds the prohibited intervals must be reduced. And when you go then you fall into one of these, or the clause must be changed from hard to soft, or from mol li in hard; or what I have consulted, the Musarithmus must be changed: that which stands; st another of the Musarithms of which the first two numbers are in the bast, and are different from the former, you will have the whole business done without much fuss. Whence the canon thus formed mouse
Whenever the numbers of the Musarithms fall into the forbidden intervals; then The Musarithm must be changed, which will happen if you receive the two most powerful FB numbers from someone else in the base they are different, let this be an example. SintMusaritbmo balis two strong numbers who in column V. tone incident on Facebook and let the song be hard, they will have a night of silence, as the second pillar of the mountain strat, of course forbidden. So ask another Musarithm based on which number is have but v. g. applying these fi the same column of foil will come out d-ux lit Artis tââagn#. Johnson ds measure T"onorum ra G C. placed: therefore in the said places there will come forth an interval, lawful vt è the side is clear. Or do you flee from labor in another Mufarithmoquare ndo, ora- 3j You will arrange the matter with the most easy business, if you use one of the keys with no gra- two high promontory, as you see done here from the side; Nana is the first filter na tone the vicious interlude prostrate; the second column is one step higher prò mota so vt Let G answer the third time, now the interlude prohibited-, he complains You see, therefore, how in various ways it is unlawfully-tiallamenda-; we can really CANON VI. J)e mutationonorum at the end of one and the same song
F It And the Musician may be able to obijcerc us any one, us in the Mufarith- Epitomic Column to have no variety among ours, create a mixture, We wanted to deliver it here in tones; but this mixture intclligantTyrones of tones, music must be known in such a variety of ways to be your father's lover, vt there in the same song whatever he was absent, the tenor of the tone assumed perpetually, and the same femper mter- they do not please, nor bring any pleasure to the ears. if they had been waiting for a while Hence more skillful Mufurgi, with the closings of different tones, rustled the vellum
tones The first Musurgical artifice was ingeniously interwoven in this way. di tones to be deprived; I will show this canon, by what reason if so I could adorn our Melothestas with thousands of fabrics, but nothing which in this DostràM'ufurgiaDmisisse we were seen v And so it became known to the prince; and the bosom of some song should be begun by, and should end in the tone which is assumed for the theme: you
ZFi black j f t tis Ideo fe que h s hy th u s, iste m qui fuprà, fuprà: sext u mito n nu 3umtjiis: luM HI. k buÈjEav tmtnab n i; vriEfliE: Veoi. oMpifistu&meutgsorumyfe: t13Rogp jbbflŠmneumdsmfiuM
the beast competes with the soft, fertile trick: accommodate, so do promote the column, to the tone one step up, so vt no longer F but rd G. should respond, and after this Musa- rithmiquamuuis ijdem, but the tone of the salius will be divided videlitsefcundumrr for Lìb. Musuraia Mirifica.
Since the clause vt is clear in the second stanza, we only experiment in this place on which basis If you advance the column of numbers by y again. degrees, i. e. i or respódeat D. vt is evident in the second application of the columnar, then according to this metathesis If you print the points of the pentagram, will come out. a mixture of tones; to the third metathesis a mixture of tones will appear, as the third period shows; But the fourth period will be vt before the sixth tone For as we have said, the beginning and end must always respond to the tone upon which the canticle was principally composed. So you see how easy a business it is to mix tones. Therefore, in the song above. the soft tone of the composition of the song must be carefully guarded against application or promotion so that the column of numbers should touch at a level which properly corresponds to a hard song, fi the canticles will be made in a soft song, there is no mixing of the tones that belong to the hard song. by reason they can or should, except in certain and very rare cases, while of course a huge number we want to hint at the change from joy to sadness by art. In order to recognize them Qpandocunqsseligis for any combination persicicndà tone II. you know the same the mufarithms of the fecal tone can be changed three or four times by the tranfpesitorious bacilli of the foot. if indeed you have received the first note of any Musarithm in one third of the height;
you will have the idea of closure a perfect change of tone fi vnà éuartàaltiorcrn you put; then one fifth; denied that you had returned to the former tone: but in the example of the matter cJucefcet more clearly. Let this kind of Musarithmus be with the notes of the second tone, if you wish to change this one, apply the color of numbers mufarithms to the column of keys or li- foreign music; so vt let the first notg musa- rhythms, that is to say, in G. this agreement will appear for the first verse the first clause of a certain meter of the fecund toned veròpromoueas the number of the column, so that corresponds to it, and If you reflow the numbers of the mufarithms into notes, you will have the first one a change of the previous clause vt appears here. if indeed a filter you will apply the key, then next to this application no If you resolve the mere mufarithms into notes, it will be revealed-- da change of the vthic clause appears; if indeed cqlunwro gume-,
the number of rorum will be applied to its radical number to D according to this application the numbers in no a third change will appear when you are repressed, vthic appears. But the fourth clause will be the same with the first
I. Musarirh. H. Toni First Change The Second Change The Third Change
These. SeSI-eI iilMfea Whence we form this rule. In om ni musarithmo II. tone, four changes ri possuht. prima coiltingit, if you apply number of the Column of numbers to any third, any fourth, and one fifth higher than the first note of the first Mufarithm; for it will be perfect a mixture of tones.
ca- CON! Artisti Agno: Confini, Discord CANON V II On the avoidance of intervening prohibitions.
yr, XVando any song is marked with the characteristic of a soft song, nu- the letters A E, as the base intervals are properly hard songs, except What is the nature of nature? would be inserted into the tone, they would also fall into illegal intervals. to but to all the remaining letters the said number i. or may be applied. ! If the canticle has been marked with the characteristic of a hard song, then the number i or ne however, it must be established above B. and above E, and this using the signs b unless, not unless: if these two rules are carefully observed, you will advance without any danger in the mixing of tones rarely: CANON V I I I On the placement of chromatic onesigns b b In each column you will find dimer appliquéd chromatic signs as well than those attached to numbers; by which we have signified that, whenever so.
the number of letters marked with the same sign occur If either cell of the columnar is empty, it must be left out. So on in the first column C you will find the letter Z affected. and the corresponding number tem in the same manner, by which we wished to indicate C. is not to be affected by this sign, but to be completely omitted. Again, in the same neck, the seventh number is also marked by this sign L astcâpm rjeperiesjCÙîE corresponds with the prefix b. because the letter is deprived of the sign L number is deprived of the letter b. the sign for you will be i and both in this tone, so the letter b quamS, dmittestdiimL. all of which must be carefully noted. But the column advanced, of numbers in one degree v. g. from k in G. you will find the number marked b; with a true sign Z affect. which numbers, when E&F correspond to the same marked signs will tell you vti ras E prefigendum b. itsFK' be prefixed gg. I came to see that this is the rule of every fall be after Whenever the same number corresponds to the sign af having met, then let the letters demand the observance of the signs; but only one or the other daitfiNota, too, the sign g is not a scraper, as we have warned in the third Canon that it must be placed but then, when the following note comes up, it may follow immediately, or even if nal sit. But all this will be dealt with in the next part. wherefore the Reader C A NO On the Multiplication of M usarithms. -aB Tmamiemietatemin we would show our liturgies, order this Canon We are here. The multiplication of the ear m consists in this, as from one number elsewhere Musarithmi let us form a complete Mufarithm. Let it be for the example of the logarithm of the first theme Paradigm. astuptussequens to which they correspond
pndept appears to be floating. This Musarithm You will be able to vary your mood with this technique. And for the first time
indeed Lìb. Vlll. QŽidusurgià Mirafica. indeed if eight times for the number of syllables in the assumed theme. Come Creator Spirit rite, put that is the first note placed in C repjicesj and then the second period likewise eight times in F. likewise eight times in B i the last voice bring the ordinary cadence net But from the following example you will better understand our purpose. Come, the spirit of the creator, refreshes the minds of those who visit, fill with divine grace. You see in this example of the above paradigm that the first note in C is actually eight times here folded next to eight syllables, but the second note here in F likewise multiplied eight times the third, similarly, in B. , the fourth in C. , however, the first notes in C, the second in D; 2inC, i% vltima tandeinFponas, vtin paradigmate. thing, you will be able to accept, for each note, one of the twelve notes in the bottom column cctofyllaborsi contendarsi series. If you don't want complete periods, you can Musarithmu to divide in any way. Or indeed to double or triple the first note of the paradigm in C or quadruple or quintuple make the second note in a sextuple, or a fifth ple, or quadruple, or treble, or double, as is clear from the following example. :iz$z
Come, come, come, come, come, come, come, spirit. Behold, in this paradigm I have selected only a few from the almost infinite combinations-' a mouse; the first? the three clauses correspond to the two characteristics of the previous paradigm, viz. in pro the base of the pentagram is evident, the fourth and fifth three marks of the upper paradigm, the sixth to the remaining five, and all this in infinite ways, as I said, in variable and replicable ways biles fu ntiAs for the first? , so very much? they are multiplyable, i. e. , at any time you give to As we shall deal more fully with these in what follows, it is superfluous here I thought they would stay longer. It follows from these that the ease of negotiation by this method con those who are commonly called false bordone] can become a hundred. For they were given v. g. Musarith mi translated notes gift, if the first? the third? in the first member; then the first? in the fertile member, and where that note? you express the value by long, as follows.
K Who lArtis Fini, Discord To these, indeed, hymns of every word, and finally of psalms you can control And this bad thing? generally in the singing of psalms and hymns by musicians They are scattered here and there, so that when they are vulgar they are not to be considered widely. réhuius modifososbordones method of composing only the insinuations suffices; let there be nothing in music, into which our Musurgia may not be said to extend its impertinence can. y; CANON l ui? orup N Pinace I. we have put polysyllables, the penultimate of which is long; In the second Pinace against the polysyllables we have placed the penultimate Whenever, therefore, a voice whatever number of syllables occurred, the last syllable of which was long, the first pinacus lysyllabis vteris If indeed the penultimate was short, the second pinac as the title of the demon Strat, Mufarithmis vteris; But in the kick of both of them I was forbidden? known column; Metrometr? dict? , given any polysyllable be measured perfectly and in many ways. E. g. if these words are to be composed, Magni let my soul receive the Lord in the second pinace in the penultimate column of the tetrasyllable instead of the Magnificat, let the Musarithm be to which correspond the marks metro. me-, tr? ; for my soul, you will receive in the first pinace in the column of pentalylbor, which Mu- a phantom, to which every kick of the meter marks corresponds, for these pentaphyllaba, although the penultimate nature has a short, it also has a long sound. Or, if desired, a trisyllable for Soul; and for my bissyllable vti you will be able. all of which already have been declared above.
CHAPTER V T V On the Poetic Metrical Rhythmic Musurgy, which Contra- with a simple point, or with equal words to be constructed in progress. Syntagma II It contains melothetic tables, Musarithmos of all kinds applied three times, and I added to this place all the poetical music, as far as possible can tratiabimusj vt there is no nation in the world which cannot prevail over any other verses constructed in the native tongue Smphonias of all kinds (even Music; they were unskilled) to construct. Which I do all the more willingly, since it was not so long ago that this came from Syria To the Arabs, and to our fathers, the Indians, and to the other provinces of the various Provinces, more urgently it was required, and it came to pass that I know of no one that it has been provided here and there. For when not femper of every place, those who know the melothetic art of the master, sing Li? however, either to arouse the devotion of men, or to theatrical purposes, or even Was it necessary for them to enjoy their own recreation? they are OpetL price will make me I thought that if, in this place, I were to convey the manner in which all the peoples themselves have been given above I like verses constructed in the native language, I adore any harmonies and any artifice born to be able to compose; This, indeed, could not be better carried out by any means protects, than through the poetic Mussirgia, qu? with a speech or a dinner of words with text Lib. Cheap Miraculous Lady I did not write the text loosely and with a loose pen, but I played the same metric under a certain syllabi but apply the bar and the narrowest and most numerous and restricted Meters to all languages They can certainly be a great help to us in reaching our goal. bet brevity, but leaving aside the detours of words let us proceed to the matter itself rice verses will begin. Just as, therefore, the body is made of various members, the tablet is made of various pictures, and harmony is made of God with different voices springing from different feet, different lines are born, meters or rhythms, for therefore a verse is nothing else than a speech tied to a certain kind and order of feet, of which there are nine species; some twenty-four; others more, paucioralij po they sewed of which I have spoken individually in the second part of this book: leaving us with these poets for arguments, let us assume those kinds of meters which excite the affections of the mind they will seem to have more energy, and more aptitude for musical numbers. In order therefore, progressing naturally, from the smallest verses to the greatest, each Mufarith-
we will apply the appropriate custom through the tables, viz Mufarithmis verses can be found. But generally not one verse or verse pha, but many seem to be gathered together, all kinds of verses are in the tetrastrophaid qua- let us divide our tricks, for thus the easier business in the art of Musurgica may proceed to Tyre.
i i I J V V Given the meters of Adonis Melothefia in a certain tone, though infinite to compose a certain variety. QVamuis Adonis verse is not only a tarò polystrophe; but as a great deal of faffics tristrophes are usually joined without, but here we have a tetrastrophe for the theme we assumed that we could better apply our art to him. Let it be (Etrastrophon given to Adonis, vt follows. Adonius Tetraslr. No courts Seasoned, none Pour pojsune Stars of light Dactylicum Tetraslr. Take off the lights To be trusted in vain Look at the light Bright gifts. It is requested that music be composed over these verses, so I will work. First, select the appropriate tone for the words, from the universal system, or from the tone table graphics Second, the phonotactic system is marked by the characteristic of the song, which the tone refers to. hard be hard, if soft, soft, that is each of the four voices of the pentagram with its scales We have proscribed claubusvt in the Tonographic menfa, and infràpetet, they are to be signed. contains fertile Dactylic; they are selected that give four Mtiiarithmi four strophes tis competent, vt follows. These yiagne Consoni. A DiJiòni
We have not selected these Musantis in the order in which the column follows, fed promiscuously, vt would see that Tyro could accept any Musarithms without discretion, and likewise to be either in a straight order, or in an interrupted order, or if you take them across, or even obliquely. {Î carries the natural order of the columns. Excerpts of Musarithmis, this with practice you will animate them into notes. Fourthly, let it be Tone VI. seek the melothesia upon which it is to be built therefore you apply the column of this tone and next to it the column of clauiumj. the margin is clear. Fifth, take the first series of Musarithmiprimi numbers you saw cet and see to which letter in the column of keys they correspond, nies to answer CCACC; print, therefore, two songs on the stave points in space C, and one in A. in discrete for three syllables [IV, hi, bus] fpacijs vt you see then two other points on the sword C. of the same pentagram)- in discrete for two and two la, three} fpacijs. and I would have for the first strophe the places of the consonances Filter Claudius Toni
Dark clouds they will not pour any stock starlight Sixth, for Alto take the second series of the first numbers of the Musarithm, vi to whom these numbers correspond in the column of letters, and you will find AGFEF. in therefore the fruitful pentagram Alto in three fpacii discrete space AGF. correspond with these three points you will print, then one in the space E. and finally one again in {paria F. there would be certain harmonic places in the high pentagram. Seventhly, take for the tenor the third series of the first numbers of the Musarithm, see to which letters in the column of keys they correspond, you will find CCFGA. im first, therefore, in as many fspaces, discrete points were seen in the places where the letters were affixed cet Lib. Miraculous music. cct first two points in space C; you will have the third in F. the fourth in G. and the fifth in A. Eighth, take for Basis the fourth series of the first numbers of the Mufarithm, vi Find the FEDCF in the column of the letter to answer the question. print so many points in discrete spaces, and in what places? they will correct the nails on the Bass staff. and you will have the places of the base determined, as in the previous diagram it is clear Ninth, having established the points of these fuprapones, take the following method into account columns, you will apply any series of notes, and each note to each point, so that all the notes in each of the four pentagrams corresponded to its one syllable that of value; and the first harmonic strophe will appear, as shown in the above scheme.
Tenth, the rest of the tricks are exactly the same reason and method by which the first we will, you will be glad. For no different system of operation can occur in them. Give therefore we assigned the meter to Adonis tetrastrophe, and to the given tone of the song, which it was Do not bring another into the frame. In the first place, in metrical compositions of this kind, observe exactly the same precautions and that the throats were to be observed, as if we had handed over the canons as we proceeded. The more successful you are in business, the more skillful you must be, if there is any difficulty, etc he ran; you can decide what to do; For we have solved in those canons what difficulty can be encountered in any Musurgy. True in the following statement we will not assign any particular rules; to whom whatever is omitted here team will be compensated. Note, secondly, that such musarithms can be adapted to any tone, ex they do not admit them to those who have taken them, even though they are half-diapant. Note, thirdly, that accidental signs should be observed. for without these it is easy to err could happen Note the fourth, or by means of one mufarithm, the application of the same to different tones, to produce an effect which is adapted to different strophes by means of different musarithms. Note the fifth, to insert the mixture of tones more artificially in the 2nd j strophes, order the natural bearing of the columns; so what is the first column? the first? fecund fe cunda? ; third party? the fourth quarter? For all things correspond to this covenant our error will be avoided; and the song composed by a natural process, will strike the ears more sweetly Where? everything must be observed with the utmost diligence.
Pinax is followed by the Musarithms. o o
i MVSIC RHYTHMIC P I N A X III. Containing Musarithmos suitable for Adonijs Sc Dactylics
O. j OHO HOO a. OOH you're welcome
from OOHH. OH- Oh my gold OO fcfRe
Take away the Princes. Dactylic
NotoMetrometrse n? r rm rt? rt? ?
JYtrt n t rt rt t rt as rt ttt rt0 T T? tt? ? what?
ROOOOB HO OO OH tjcoo fcj. aooo0. I was Wonderful Musuraia, Proposition Given the iambic meter of Euripides, fp) given any tone above it to compose any harmony. Eurypedxura's ambicum is a hedtaphylla meter, the Mufarithmos of which are in four columns PinacislV. In the second order of the syntagma, there is as many three times; oops We have lived, as the title of the column indicates. Let us assume for the theme of the meter, vul the most famous and famous hymn that follows. Alas for the star of the sea Mother of God And always a virgin Happy heaven's gate. Therefore, anyone will want to compose a tune over this tetrastrophe He will proceed to chant with four voices. First, the columns were broken up in that order, where he wills he will order or even Mufarithms in four correpondentesix strophes he picks separately; Let there be four Musarithms in order according to the order of the strophes from picked up, as it follows. Tons
I. Stanza Musarithmi
Excerpts of Musiirithmis, of schligetonum, who sitv g. the second, this time. to be excited; It is more suitable for devotion. then columning is applied a column of fertile tones appears on the side. With veró tone mol The problem is that each pentagram of the phonotactic system is appropriated to the keys
You will sign the characteristics you owe (which you ask for in the promises), as you see expressed here
Hail the star of the sea, God's mother soul, and always a happy Virgin at the gate Having prepared a phonotactic system and distinguishing for each syllable the same number of spaces, you will order the composition, as it were. First, you will prepare the first strophe of the Mufarithm, then the rest in order. Look then with which you carry the best of the shoulders of Musarithm, strike if and find GABCAB. the places of these lireras in the pentagram
Chant, where you print the dots, you see, then see which letters are in the column let the second of the numbers in the first Musaritsimo correspond to and you will find DFG GFG the places of these liter arum why in the pentagram of the High, and there print the points: three times see which letters correspond to the third series of numbers in the same Musa- rirhmo, and you will find her answering BAGGDD. Why are the places of these letters in the Pentateuch? Errammo Tenor, and print the points there. Fourthly, see which letters are in the cla column whose Basis Musarithmus answers; icpericsqne GFECDG. these letters Mark the places on the base of the pentagram carefully, and print the points there. Those who were impressed take any type of metrometer (which you will find at the foot of the columns) series; she that one and the same one with every four words, to be sure, that is to say, su for the points printed on each pentagram, for these points show the sword in which bus not$ and the corresponding points must be placed, and you will have the first stro a composite pham; Do the rest of the steps in the same order. therefore, in the iambic of Euripides' tetrastrophe, and given the tone in which it is placed, compose the given melody we did what had to be done Dissoni's great art of music Jota in Pine em IV- X 7T the melody of the strophes should be considered more sincere, the mufarithm from the strophes are selected in natural order. That is why we advise you not to I have taken from here and there, without any selection, to supply some who are less agreeable to me let the praises flow, from here we have provided, as the musarithms in the natural order of the prompting femper through they would present a finished harmony, which consists in an exact mixture of tones. that Stu we have already begun, and in all our pursuits the pinacs must be struck down. This is not the reason why I would like to point out that in promiscuously impromptu mufarithms no harmony should appear; étiirii femper, in whatever order you put them, it emerges; let them exhibit the which fall down in the natural order of the dk columns. If anyone In this matter, more practice is needed; from the arrangement of the numbers, it is also easily understood then, by denouncing them from one side to the other, he realized that he had been executed. l. Places SE b, with the utmost diligence, according to the projects handed down in the proceedings, they are given Vi lH: ' Or a single musarithm will suffice for the perfect harmony of strophes; if you in the proceedings it was said, by means of transposing bacilli of different tones, or the same thing is to be applied to the column of several letters. this interim, as the last strophe femper first to answer as to the tone. Yt. These are the musarithms of the stanzas for all the tones in the head column you will be able to apply by registering; but this, by striking, as if in the voice any voice al- he was more or less depressed; so with the other voice, as it is said in the canons, you change. .J A
PINAX Form a m etferit. Alas for the star of the sea. Lib. VIII Mirafica. P I N A X IV. Euripidea's penultimate long iambic. Stanza I Stanza III. , Stanza 1V. I r. i. ii. in. iv. îx. xJ T. 1. 11. IH iv. tx. x. r. i. ii. nuv. ix. x. 1
Notes of the Season. ;
O. j d j Y? YY YT î î Y O j OJ. CO C. fi
Yî YY YYYY T-tîTYY y y YTTTY0 i o. f î î YÎ? Y ÎYYY riTTYî Y Y Y yoo a a aa
ao a a a a a a a a aa -uo a a a a a a a a a e a
mo. Proposition ILI M Given the monocolo Anacreonticus meter, Juser id quamuui har I advise you to settle yourself. . v-KLyiin j;
it is given as a tetrastrophe as followed by the double Anacreonticum properly said, &Boe thrice four times that he liX He has all this pleasure CcJafiprems Anacreontkum Stimulis agi, ] I will do Boctian. In the green trees And celery by flying You enjoy singing sweetly It strikes deep hearts with a bite. Whoever, therefore, desires to compose a harmony upon this meter; it is so proce gives it becomes tone given for the form of cantys.
I. Take the quoslihetMufarithmosmxta. strophasdifpositosenseque- ton. vi. il ri pinace, as is clear below.
II. They sign the pentagram of the pasimpfefti phonotacticharacterilmo can tus duri as the eighth tone relates. III. Applied to the column of stone to the column of clay, punctuated in sin Artis Finini, Dissoni tas, with the same method energy, which we have taught in the previous ones. when all is done, the tetraphon or quadricinium will appear, as follows. Not the metrometer he applies, they are perfected from the vacation time to be divided imperfectly
Otet quaterq; happy Cicada that supreme You see in this paradigm both the imperfect tepus in the first two stanzas; perfect or triple in the two following strophes; But you will do better if the whole present the tetrastrophonfab in the perfect or imperfect tense at the same time. PINAX Lib. Son The Wonder Woman P IN A X V Anacreontica penultimate long.
Stanza [. jStroph. li. Stalked stanza IV. Stanza I. jStroph. II. Stroph. IIr Stroph. 11 Ton. LH. m. iTon. LlI. m. Ton. MI. ni Ton. MI. IIl Ton. IJI. IIl. ! Ton. I. II. III Ton. I. Il. III Ton. I. II. II IV. IX. X. IV. IX. X. IV. IX. X. IV. IX. X. IV. IX. X. IV. IX. X. 1V. IX. X. IV. IX. X.
Note: time. Note: Time.
î vjoo j0 ycooyoo yoooyoo yoooyoo? rtm i"0 r yOyy yOO mrr rr rr? rmr oîtttr nm
OOORVRR. OCOROR. OOCRORR OOOflOtitt oooaoaa OOOHOHHCORORR e OORVHR
E rrorcrh. RHOrOrh. EmCRCRO ruororh RRORORH RROROHH t ttORORR R ROROHR you are ypOyOC
H OOQC. oh, oh j) lj 0JC. j' -vy oyoojyOyOyOO î yJ Arùs Conson, Diffom Proposition IV Given Tetrapros ho monocolo meter Iambic A rchiloch ct, and given tone to compose harmony
Let the next Tetiastrophon be the hymn most sung in the Church. The banners of the King come out
The glory of the cross shines In this life he endured death And by death he brought forth life. And let the first tone be given, upon which any one will wish to compose to spin harmony, so it will proceed. Apply columnamclauium column$ of the first tone. Then you will sign the four voices of the pentagram in palimpiestophonotactic tone first, who is the character of the ism of hard. II. Take the Musarithmos quofue from the following Pinace from which we ae we have received such musarithms corresponding to the strophes. I. Toni
Then work by puncturing the pentagram, as it was said in the preceding, then apply the points of any of the marks at the foot of the series of columns, we here triple we have chosen, and the harmonic tetrastrophon quatrain will appear; as it appears here; carefully observing the position of the c chromatic signs Z b. to be done in convenient places. I said, "How can the compositions of this kind of cantilena be varied in infinite ways? " mouse in the canons, which they consult, and in the first proposition of the first pinac. Interim you su I would like to point out in my interest that above in Canon II. we warned; If the voices in any to they would no longer descend to the heights or depths, to exchange them among themselves, as mentioned We taught PINAX Lib. oTbìufurpa Mirafica P I Ns 4t XîyfV I Iambic Archilochica octoliliaba penultimate breuia
Stanza I Stanza II Stanza III Stanza IV To. V. VJ. VJIJ. XII. T0. .V. VI. VIIXII. To. V. VLVIII. XII. To. V. VI. VIII.
OOOHOflOB iJ: tiOlOQOB-O. Q
they will go cno $jjpm. isl3b03. yes Proposition V. Given Tetraphlophos meter Enneasyllabi datumJus er her Attis Confini Dissoni
It is given Tetrastrophon monocolum enneaphyllabum, vt sequitur.
Hail, Queen of Angels Woe to the medela people Saluefon vitasalue gate From which the light of the world arose for us. Above this kind of meter let the harmony be composed, and the tones of the 7th. be given; The prepositions and signs of the palimpsest pentagram, according to the tone given. select
You will apply excerpts from the Mufarithms column by column tone VII. and then to work as we have taught in the previous ones by signing sin Gula pentagram with its points, which are then known as the first clothes. whose the way we have here received the notes of the minor treble, it will produce the requested harmony. Tetraphon was as requested, and it follows. Hail Queen Angelot Hail Itiedela populor u Salue And you will be able to vary this paradigm again in other infinite ways according to what was said above retreating, but nejeadern we are always forced to repeat. Reader to canons diagram We sent them back. Having therefore given Stone's tetristrophe, we have completed the requested harmony.
PINAX The form of M. 'Amantyenenapamc'uLe. Lib. Cheap Musar is already wonderful P I N A X VII. Penultimate long iambic Enneaiyllaba. Stanza I To. y. vi, VJIÎ-X. XII. Stanza I I. , Stanza I I I. , Stanza IV. T0. V. VI. VIII. X. XII. To. v. vi VHi. x. xii. To. v. vi. vin. x. vii.
î Titittr r î? îtt îî jOOOHOBOHH'- oooohohohp
"Immin i Proposition M I Given the verse decasillabo, stue Iambic daBylico, harmony I am dying to finish. y son lv
Equens Pinax VIII. is arranged for iambic meters Alcmanius trimeter brachy- catalectiš cuiuimodiestsequensversus You look at the beautiful tresses of the Virgin. If, therefore, any one stock will compose this kind of polyphrophic harmony if he wanted, he first chooses Mularithmosjde for the purpose of the theme it was said in the proceedings that it should be returned, and that which had been intended would be accomplished. At this point we will only present a single trick instead of a paradigm He will therefore compose above this v. g. th- ma, . The great creator of all things. Take any of the entire Pinace Mufarithmos, see- cet the following, then select the tone vthicnos Vl. deindo applied column elautura columnre of the sixth tone, work according to the precepts handed down; and the following harmony will emerge. : Arùs Magna Conson, Disson Thomas VI.
The truth of all.
u i, t N, s-ro You will then be able to continue this paradigm as a consequence through your tricks. Seruan- dointerimpreceptai& rules in the preceding fuse handed down. Given therefore, that! mm?
Affinities; OOQCXpO t! f Î i i PINAX Uh. V1 IL Musar già Mirìfica,
P I N A X V L The penultimate meter of the Decasyllaba breu.
Stanza l. strophe I I Stanza I II Stanza V
V. VI. VII. Cheap XI. XII. V. VI. VII. Vili. XI. XII. [V. VI. VII. Cheap XI. XII. v. vi. vii. wine xi. XII.
Note; Metrometer: nr îSiSiBì nrn; Mt. , three! tt ît tmm tt îî tt trtî, ooo nmifîît0 n tm jOOOHOHOB OH jHOOOOH OH ooohh z'oOOOHOH jBOOOOBOfl 2OOOHOHOH OH? cî- nw? o yo
Pro- Artis Magna Consoni Dijfon Proposition V I I Given the Hendecasyllabus trtstrophe requested above id to complete the harmony
itdaeumHendecafylhbumtristrophon cxHoratio, vtsequitur. Three old houses of Falerni The powerful grandson of Romuh A bold ruler, an arbiter of kings. Prepare the Phonotactic palimpsest stave with his keys Column column? apply the given tone, then select in any order from Pinace Musarithmos following then work according to the given rules,
Ternos yctusti congiosfalerni This paradrgWqtia reason can vary infinitely, you will perceive from the traditional in the process
with the teeth of a reptile; for which reason also, given in one Mufarithm, he was slaughtered by means of a mixture you will perceive our varirepbssisfjiquandd &vbigplace how, given the Hendecasyllable meter, the desired harmony results from it. Given to you tur tetrastrophe hendecasyllable, Sic. What had to be done. WO So
f? i PINAX Tons î. II. III. IV. II. they were able to accommodate Uh. I was ePMusurgid Mirafica. P I N A X
for Phaleucius Hendecasyllabis Form Meter. glorious Virgin Mother of God. Stanza I
mT 1ttti T4f Tîfîfîîtt? oo
dead rmrtinr Z ooonocoon. ilO-liniili HttOOOC îîir, î4 fî ofofîfo enîîfofw yy Yî0, ffî0 vîffiri00 îtt i? r? Tîr? ? t tt r îtt
L Art of the Great Frontier, Disson Proposition VIII. Given the Sapphic poem tr ifìrof ho I say that in animate harmony And next Pinace we ordered the Sapphics Mufarithtnos, the first? three hills they hold the phone But the column of Adonijah Musarithmi is contained, each Adonijah. after the Triasaphica they always join
If any one, therefore, wishes to compose this meter in the most appropriate kind of music of all It would not have worked otherwise. But let us declare the matter with a single paradigm. Therefore let the theme of Melothesig fafficum ti istrophon dicolon be that most famous hymn we have sung John the Baptist, used to be sung at the feast. As if the loose fibers resonate The gifts of your servants are wonderful Solvep. o liuti libij liability Saint John Having therefore prepared the palimpsest and signed the words of the pentagram, excer on foot from the pinnace following those three Mnfarithmos with Adonis, whom de thence applied to the column of keys assumed by the colonnade (who here followed it is the tone) you will live in harmony by jopering according to the precepts if the rules having been handed down, the following harmony of words will come forth. Tone II I I Adonius
With equal diligence you will be able to vary this one in infinite ways, but read the Canons about these the rules given above. To note, however, that in this place I saw you precedcht pinacem to be able to smoke this for fappjhicispromifeuè; For the Musarithmi of both of them I am a sapphic they can be accommodated by tro, palaeus. Given, then, which had to be done. PINAX Lib. VIII oIusurata Mirafica. P I N A X For Sapphic Metres. Adonijah: Stanza I Ton. I. ILIII. IV. IX. X Stanza II Ton. I. II. III. IV. IX. X Stanza III Ton. I. ILm. IV. IX. X Tones I. II. Ill. iv.
ochoooochr HOCOOO. OORH j $mî zArtù Great Conson, Disson Proposition X Datoquotlibct firofharum Jsclefìaddo fuser that harmony to complete the set It is the theme of the meter called that Asclepiadeus Horace. Publish the Mecatnas to the Kings, May he like to decorate it with harmonic modules, so to work; Select any of the Cuentipinacestropharum Mufarithmos. Then applied the column of nails to the column for the tone which you afTumpfist for the theme, to work according to the precepts rules handed down; ha- and drink intently We leave Melothet. And these are the ones that depraxipinaci I have given you, in which the industrious Tyrus exercised himself a little, I have no doubt of the five with the greatest ease, any compromises imposed upon him are concluded without any pledge cturus; For here nothing else but continuous exercise is required, I swear vt carefully evaluates them, qu? of the requisites for this a tempusè you give in the beginning
we give First of all, let him make the canons and rules of music and poetry familiar to him. Who When instructed, nothing will be so hidden in simple counterpoint, which, as I said, is not easy business is about to penetrate
PINAX Lib, FUI, téfylujìtrgia Mirafica, P I N A X XI Dodecaphylla was the penultimate brevia. Stanza I T. v. vi. vii. vin. xr. xir. Stanza V. VI. VII. VIII. XI. XII. Stanza V. VI. VII. VIII. XI. XII. Stanza IV V. VI. vii. vni. xi. xii.
NotceMetromdtrg. o? mrttrr Arrmrtî -Wrî? rrfîîo rm? itirm rt cirnoo. m. to hmm? îrt YTîT-tîî rt mrt m what? ?nrm tm o. nrfoo7frfo rt mrt irtrrr oooojoo. ooo
OOOO. yOO. OO-O nOflOO î
mrt YWîfttm? m Expedite ra to change tones Arthur Magna Conson, Diffom Rule in Poetic Musurgy. From now on we are forced to repeat the same, here we will lay down certain rules, which in We are directed to melothctic operations, and many difficulties will be encountered we avoid it more easily. The first rule When the poetic Mufurgia proceeds through polyflrophic periods; They note while the first is these harmonic numbers of the base f. i. or z. L. vbicunq; meet the same tone applied to produce the same femper v. g. in the sixth tone, the femper falling from C to F with a significant fecund tone, the cadence from D to G, etc. do not attack; same thing The sound and tone of Melotheta Tyro should be perceived among the Mufarithms of the base, other than God Let us ask for harmonic numbers such as or or or anyone let them meet others, and with these the femper will be able to use them for the second or third stroke; The first for even the last strophe must hold the tone assumed at the beginning, because it is so much greater variety is perceived in harmonic modulations; We have given an example in the previous one ti composition, where you see in Mufarithmis the basis of the last notes arguing that with the notes of the Mufarithm of the first SâvltimL from which the harmony of the other to is consequently born It has been said. For the first strophe has the form of the second tone, the fruitful strophe, but it has the form of the ninth tone, the third strophe the form of the fifth tone, and finally the fourth rum is reflected in the second tone assumed at the beginning. Therefore, this rule it is to be remembered. For if one were to take the same numbers for the second tone harmonics, that femper would make the same tone, which, although it is permissible, is still to the ears it is not so agreeable when a mixture of various tones intervenes; vtifuprà quo which we taught in the sixth canon. But if any one did not find different numbers, he would be condemned The easiest practice of all is indicated in the sixth canon, promoting the assumed tone Column after column of nails applied in one step or two or four or five steps higher; And the Mufarithmi continued into another form of Tones there are many, and this is the most expedient method of mixing tones. adequate it is opportune to establish any variety, or even one immovable Mufarithmus by four for the column of numbers to others other degrees of the column of keys for the application of the movement emerges in four different harmonic strophes. Let it be e. g. The mufarithmus of the base is brought before a pause 8764. fi, vnus through a variety of tones the mixture to be presented in four strokes; So proceed, last Mufarithmi nume apply rum or above the assumed tone, that is, the second tone, or the same is the soprano G. and will come out with the harmonic composition of the first strophe of the second tone. Again, apply the first quick octave number to the last Mufarithm of the first base above D. in. a column of keys, and the second strophe will come out composed above the ninth tone. App the same number is then folded over B. It will be produced from the composition of the numbers made the third strophe composed above the fifth tone; Finally, it will be applied in the column number the number of roses is the first or eighth above G vt in the beginning, and it will appear again
then the last tonstropha; I command myself to be diligent in the interim (firn è these two rules. The rule of seven. Whenever the song was hard, number one or number eight they should never be placed above B. or above F. and only rarely above E and indeed with ar tification but you will be able to promote all those letters above the rest. Rule teytt4 Whenever the cantus is soft, the first or eighth number in co the column of numbers must never be applied to the letters A or E; the rest I imputed to all they will not be able to be applied. The fourth concerning the position of the Chromatic signs b b quadrifide quX fuse We have said in the canon of the fiòsso rule of the proceeding chapter, above. IV. about their position then of the figures. It is true that you are not always forced to adhere to the said rules, but here we will put others much shorter. Whenever the numbers or what is the same as correspond in the column
no Lib. Vili, téMusurgià Mirifica. of the letter C F or G C. or F B. whether the song was hard or soft, then never the pen or letter which corresponds to the seventh number in the column of numbers must be affected if gno L Whenever the numbers or of the Musarithm base, in the column smile EA. AD they answered, then Utera, which answers to the seventh number, in its own right requires the sign L. if, however, the note after the note affected by this sign ascends immediately, or the final following descending, however, is known immediately: following, it must be omitted. cation We have demonstrated all these in a previous book. Porrò whenever in the soft song. r. inciderintinDG, then the letter quo refpo- det, it will almost always be a soft B, or the note on the B chord, Lemper b. it is necessary to It was true that the song was hard and the numbers fell into the letters AD. then sit together to which answers ordinarily b will be, if notte is to be placed on the string B: , b soft if gnanda: they are, that is, in tone What rules, if you obey, will you produce harmony I was subject to absolutely no failure. From these follows the first individual tetraphonic Musarithms, according to the rules produced by a mixture of tones four times varied, to produce four strophes of the harmonica Coroll. L absolute with all numbers, even if they are marked intervals in each of the strophes but, on account of the diversity of tones, they essentially change, and the most agreeable au They present a harmony between the two things, which, however, does not happen if the Musarithmos are long between the eaters they would only be applied to one tone. There is so much power in the diversity of tones. The rule of thumb is the change of one meter into another meter. It also follows on what basis from the iambic Euripodeus Catalectus becomes Hypercatalectus. And there is that Iambic Euripides hypercatalectum in which a single syllable at the end abu- gives, because this appears in the following tetrastrophe. Alas, Virgin of Virgins
You will be terrified. Whoever therefore transfers the Musarithmos of this meter into a particular table with pit. There is nothing else in the profile, except the penultimate number in all the Musarithms Pi- nose IV According to the iambic of Euripides, it doubles, that is, the number given twice put, and will have a particular pinacem of Mularithms in Iambic hypercatalect and of borrowers, let v. g. Mufarithmusstropheprim Pinacus IV it follows From the catalect it becomes hyper- Alas, the star of the sea, Mufarithmus Hail Virgin Mary gulisMufar. vt follows. By equal agreement of the marks of the metrometers, you shall either double the penultimate in each series, or you will bisect the penultimate one into two corresponding to it. and will also have metro features Iambic meters adapted to the hypercatalect, according to the example of the progress of the notes can open From this it is also clear that the Iambic composition that had been composed a little before the whole can be changed into a hypercatalect with a very easy task i if the individual strophes- Coroll. II. the penultimate note in two taken together, corresponding to the penultimate dividaturdict. From this it is clear, in short, how the business can be accommodated only by dividing it into two similar parts known as initial or final
diviso oquipollentes And this with the first, before I had advanced in the third year I took Tanda, as Melotheta was trained in all things to the practice of Tyrus, and he was more quickly brought into practice would wear There is much in this passage about the multiplication of Musanthmoru; a variety of combinations there was almost an infinite number of words; It is true that all this is inconsistent with the canons of the proceeding We have delivered the chapter, therefore we send the Reader back to them; For wherever we said there They will also be able to adapt themselves to this poetry. Why to other things? N Great Art: Confortiy Dijfon în Mufurgia Poeticam fute R rhythmicam. oist aioi eieb. -f. bi oiaraytfibmijq-jl xup 'ta'3JÌÌ38tn
RactauimushuCusque de Musurgia poetic monocola that is, what industry that- we have been able to animate a homogeneous type of meter with musical modules, but already ostc- it is to be given by what method and heterogeneous energy the meters of various kinds are joined together (qiix Prosodiographi now dycola à mixture of two verses of different genera already three call the atrium of the meter tetracolon a mixture of four verses of a different kind usually) to establish a greater variety of Musurgical operations, con- they were to be sent We will complete the whole task in a few sentences. Synthess I. If therefore the Musarithmosex column I columnce I. Pinacis you will have Mularithmos for the meter Pherecratus, of which kind is il following game
R: Thank you Pyrrha under the cave -K3 3rist rqurbon filtfc Black raven yes -j. vo He hopes that the wind is unconscious. Synthess IL Si I. Column of Adonia Pinacis III. put it twice, you will have Musarithmos for Anaptestic meters, it follows. Gird your laurels with your laurels. Synthesis III. If II. Columnâ Dactylica Pinacus III. you will be doubled, that is, you will be placed twice you will have Musarithmos for the meter of Asclepiadeus Choriambicus, vt follows. Why do you put me in lyrical vats? Sublimiferiamsydera top. Synthesis IV. If you join the first column of the first Pinac with the second column Da- ctyiic Pinacis tertij, you will have Mularithmos for the Glyconic meter, vtsecutur. Breathing ether with voices He put on wings of peace. i Synthess V. If you join together the first and second columns of the third Pinacus, you will have Alcmacumdactylic and Horatian, vtsequitur.
I am often saddened by the burden. Synthesis VI. If one of the columns of Pinacus V. pi you take the first column of Pinacus I. you will have Musarithmos for that iambic meter, namely for the third line of the Odes Hora: . p v: u He mourns those who are laboring and freezing. Synthesis VII. If you choose the first column of the first Pinac, one of the columns of the Pina cis Musarithms are born for the Iambic Alcmanic meter, it follows.
ioti You look at the beautiful breasts of the Virgin. A cheap synthesis. If one of the trisyllabic columns of Pinacus I. postpones the column of Pina then you will have the Musarithms for the Sapphic and Phaleucian hendecasyllables,
Synthess If the fourth column of the pentasyllables of Pinacis I mark the column; Dactylic Pinacs tertijjhabes Musarithmos for Horatian meters of this kind qu$ lcquuntur. fuiq
Synthess X. If the two columns of Pmacis V. or the two columns of the heptasyllabs Pi naci put together, you will have Musarithmos for dactylic pentameter. p u Auernus, with his terrible mouth, will smite the waters -sito bfc And Like a son. Musargia Mirifica.
And here I joined together the columns with the columns, and spread myself long and wide the tribes will be born. For example, from the first and most fertile pine trees, in which Mu- We have described polysyllabic hymns, with various combinations of all kinds of meters where? For sure, the said combinano runs out almost to infinity, so it also goes to infinity He looks at the meter. But the column of the first and fruitful pinacs, with columns poetry? combined metric? , again innumerable harmonic variation? the fobole will give birth Let the reader understand the vastness of our craft. Polycola, at the end of the different members of the meter, you will have heterogeneous odes, if you join the columns of different pines. V. g. if anyone was there during that hour he would like to compose a harmony given the Tiana Ode.
You see how deep the white snow is crying Sorrow often: let them no longer bear the burden They are working hard with ice Let the rivers stand still. It will work like this, the spouses of the first and second column of Pinacis III. bis; attach to these one of the columns of Pinacus VI. then a fertile column of Pinacus II. finally One of the columns of the Pinacus V. habebif and the Musarithmos arranged for the Ode. Otherwise you will complete other syntheses. But are they to be assigned odes? Polycola? pure? or not pure Hate? Polycola? pure? they are said to have heterogeneous verses. For if any one Iambic-Euripeda? Anacreontica, he would assert Iambic Archiiochicum; And to this Adonius in short, he would have tetrastrophon tetracolon. Hate? not pure? they are said when meters of one kind are placed twice, thrice, four times; and then give something else the meter of the verse type is added, viz. the sitin of Horace's Odes, where the first two meters are of the same kind, but the following two are of a different kind, whence tetrastrophon tricolori it is said that Odepaulò was quoted before. so in the Sapphic three verses of the same gene to this is attached Adonius of Diuersigeneris, whence it is called tetrastrophon dycolon. The same in all ours? Poetry? nis tetrastrophis Pinacius IV. who sings the lythms of Euripedes, and repeats another of them Pinace V. and here another from Pinace Vl. deniq; to this he would attach the first column of Pina cis he would have the Musarithmos for the tetrastrophe tetracolo, of which The meters are of various kinds, arranged in order. the first of which was Iambic Euripe- d$um, the second Anacreonticus, the third Archilochicus, the fourth finally Adonius. From all of which it is very clear, if I am not mistaken, that a certain force and power in me is infinite shining through your combination of different columns. The truth is that all this is more common In what follows, he shows that in our combinatorial art DEVS nods to life they will be dflifc M De V er sibus Hexameter pentameter. A meter or Heroic meter is worth a foot. the fifth female by Dactylus, all the rest are either Dactyli or Spondei; A pentameter without which consists of feet, all of which are either dactyls, or Spondaeans, or Chorae, Pyrrhic; Indeed, this kind of meter is inconstant because of the great variety it admits; nor should he keep his feet fixed in a certain place. we are At the same time, he would like to construct a symphony based on similar types of meters; He will easily obtain his aim, if the Musarithms of the first and second Pinacs are metered he ordered the feet of V. g. If any one were to ponder over this distichon,
Everything is a thin pendant of men And suddenly they rushed to take advantage of the situation.
If, as I say above, he wanted to compose a tetraphonon with these verses, then the feet vtriufq; verses from the columns of Pinacus I. II. He picks out the Musarithmos. for p take co lumnam II Pinacius II. for here the penultimate polysyllable has short breves; for the other foot. [fin ÎJUl'v [they are of men] take column III. Pinacs of the same. for [thin] take again for II. Pinacis II. for [pending] column III. Pinacius II. for [silo J, finally, the first the column of Pinacus I. or II. Coordinated with this energy every column was transferred. You will be able to select a series of Musaritlims for Melothesia petitions; and then work We have very much written in the previous ones, and he will publish the hexameter in musical modules ornate, vtpetieras Exactly the same reason. You will need the pentameter, for it is in om they have the same operating system, iiue solutes, within the columns the polysyllables will be assigned to the given theme. Syntagma II development of flow M usurgia metric flowery artistic we have already delivered our metrics, we will show this chapter the way in which you even the uninitiated in Music, not only in the simple Contrapunto, but the Me- to complete the lothesia, the bedstead, in which reason they were fauscan with an artful and florid style. Dactylic hexasyllables. The second Pinax contains the Musarithms for the Iambics of Euripides. The third pinax contains musarithms flowy and artificial for the meters of Anacreon.
cis heptasyllabic QnartusPinax contains florid artistic Musarithms for Iambic meters Archilochic Quintus Pinax contains florid artistic Musarithms for Enneafylla's meters- twice decal'yllabis Sextus Pinax contains florid and artistic Musarithms for the faffics and quibusli bet hendecasyllables Behold, with these fex Pinacs we present to you special Musarithms, harmoniously cukntas, the church containing the most suitable symphonies. NorMetrometie vnicuiqjvocisMusarithmo are peculiar, in which it differs from known ones The metrometer is in I. Syntag. it suffices for each of the common words. Mufarithmi's voice is peculiar to him He declares that it is noted clearly that it should not be changed. although they cannot be separated, it should not be necessary. Hence how many numbers are there in any one Mufarithm, I must find so many notes in the corresponding series of notes. Cceteru way of working Lib. FIlL ofiMusurgia Mirifica. xo3 MVSVRGIiE RHY IH M I C JE Syntagma ti P I N A X I. M E i, O T H E T I C V S In which the harmonic numbers for the meters of Adonijs Datty are legal which, but Florido they are arranged by an artificial 'progress of speech'.
strophe i. Toni v. vr. man live xr. xir. Toni v. vr. VII. etc. XI. r.
îîr. Consoni, Dissoni
ìwAdonia, Dactylica. vviîvif. viir: ,xi. xir.
Tone V. VI. VII. Cheap
For JLib. Cheap Miraculous Myfurgia io jt Proposition X Given the iambic meter of Euripides q) in the first tone above Melothefiam to finish it with a flower. Xpedes this proposition by the operation of double, simple and mixed, vti in proceeding it's done And indeed you will be able to establish a simple one with only one Mufarithm meter tricks? to the respondent, who then replicated it through a change of tones, imposed Melothesia alîìgnet, because in the first operation we proceed immediately; or more Mu- farithmes, of which, however, the Musarithmus base has two different last numbers from numbers or as has been said, the first; true fourth; tricks; the tone becomes the same, ha- and drank what he asked for. But let us give a paradigm of promiscuity, so that it is not always a double operation we are forced to give an example.
Let us therefore have Melothesia completed with a florid style above the Euripedes' Metre, cit- this is the Hymn. Hail to the star of the sea, they are plucked out by the thunder of the Musarithmidiuers, We have said that those whose numbers are the basis of the Mufarithm are two thousand numbers or yelsi nonreperjantur it will be folded
Here are Musarithmos strophes correpondenting Iambic meter, nosob fpacij angu I have omitted the marks of the metrometers in each of them in the following pinace, which we have omitted in the study however, with great effort, Melotheta superimposes the points printed on the pentagram. he must, as the saying is, he would animate the said Mularithms into the requested harmony, to carry out, as we have taught the previous ones, and the following Melothesia tetraphon will appear. Remember in this paradigm rcgulf about the position of Z b. Nothing remains of this instead of further admonition.
v v i PINAX Artis MtgwCwfori &Disiom PIN A iX I Mufarithmi Melothefias Florida fiue Artificiosa for meters. Iambics, Eiripedae, Hetasyllabs. . Hail to the star of Matthew. Stanza stanza
ooooyyp f A. VT Books To irifica Iambic Euripedxa in the style of Florido for all comfortable tone Stanza III Stanza I V 54-izrr
Pro- jo ì. Cotisoni, Disson Proposition II. Given to Anacreontic and the second tone imposed on him To perse'cere the elothesa with a florid pen,
He rides Pinax III. for the Anacreontic meters in a florid style; In which w the nace will be exactly the same as those in the proceeding. Melothesia should therefore be instituted above some such meter tristrophon; excer We taught the ptis Musarithmisvti to everyone, one with the knowledge of each Mufarithmo ap you will set up a simple or mixed operation; But a mixed operation was instituted he rubs through the simple Mufarithms from Pinace IV. Anacreontic predecessors syntag- m tis excerpts, the flowers of this pinacus Musaiithmisaptly brought. Finally, this warning the mouse, delivered carefully to those who are proceeding with the regulation, so as to achieve the intended end and you will reach But let us add an example to make matters clearer. Paradigm Melothesias. all the world PINAX Lib. Vili, Musurpa Mirificaî jop P I N A X III, Musarithmos MeJothesias Florida and the Containing For Anacreontic meters. ter qttaterquefoelix Stanza I Toni 1. ii. in. iv. ix X. Stanza I Tones I. II. IV. IX. X.
JIO Artis MagnaConsonì Disiavi Anacreontica in the style of Florido.
Stanza Ili Toni MI [if. V. X.
Stanza V. Tone III. IV. X.
. u; mrmmiir iì rmnr--rHu:
Eîîmî? T where i x IH? :
-in Lîb. Mirifica. V I propose AI I ll 'i Dm to present a flowery flylo
EquensPinax corresponds to Archilochic iambic meters, and contains Musarithms adapted to a florid style; to spin Here he animates excerpts of Musarithms for numerostrophes into harmony, the operation of Empisci or mixed by the application of the rules, canonmque iti priceden- the outlaws be
Now this kind of meter is most suitable for harmonic modes; here and there in Breuiario Almost all Roman hymns consist of this kind of meter. Vuilam Lu to believe in this, Christ is the Redeemer of all, the Creator of the alms of faith. The banner of the king's prodeunty L similar to huiufmpdi, and only a few syllables away from the preceding anacreontic Wherefore should one wish to adapt the Musarithms proceeding to these; he will do nothing else niti vtpenultimum vniufcuiufque voisMufarithmi doubles the numberUm A note indeed correponding in number, this is the penultimate division into two diirifaî eqiipollentes; If he has Musarithmos for Iambic Arehilochic quafitos, Exeroplttin damusvt Ty he has a place where he can practice igma
id&artificer Pre Iambics Are hilochijs The Creator Spirit of Wine.
Stanza I. : Bif'U P Toni v. vr. víl virr. xi. NK sent
strategy Lib. Cheap Musurgla Mirafica Archilochic iambic
Tone V. VI. VII. Cheap XI. XII.
Jl Oy 'H Artìs&lâgn# Confini Dissoni Archilochic iambic. Stanza III
Toni li. In. IV. IX. X. Stanza V Toni I. II. UUV. IX. X
îrmrrtTYfftS. tmn niîttnr
To dress Florido Bylo. u He, therefore, whose mind it is to animate these kinds of meters into harmony, will work side by side the rules handed down in the proceedings, extracts from the first Mufanthmis appropriate to the meter? then the notes of each Musarithm were added, suitable for printing in penragrammispfl- distributed to those After all these things have been duly completed, you will draw the requested Melothesia. For the penultimate breves of the decasyllabic meters you will have Musaritsimos, if penulti each Musarithmiiequentiequentispinacis doubles, and note the penultimate one you will be divided into two hundred and fifty: I
Let the form of the meter be given; They love the poisons of parricide) assignatufq. Topus II. Except for from the pinace following any musarithms ynà with the notes ynicuiq, prpprijs, vt sequU: rir.
Stanza I stanza M, Tone II. Stanza
Hofcc you will first translate the mufarithms into the proper pentagram of words, then iu after the keys, which numbers indicate the points of the pentagrams at intervals the first, to whom the marks of the individual musarithtr. is were superimposed; And you will have what4 For as it has been said above, each of the tnulimthmi has tofnotas è region answering how many numbers they have; so if you print the points of the whether there were more or fewer, the sign should be clear to you that there was a mistake somewhere; you will repeat the operation until you are satisfied with your wishes. Example in we do not present, to give the musician Tyrone some opportunity of exercise,
tINAX P I N A'. Xo V. containing Mufithmos. For the meter? , Ennebis DecalyUabis.
stanza II. : Toni UU. iU-dl&lX. ; X. TO0Ì I. II. IV. X. Arùs Màgjue C onsoni Dissoni jC; îTobì; X. r vi i nj uu j
summit00 cfTrriiTt? mm
I went. ' Frau e? YfY? y0' sbny 0VTTîî9îtte r riivn
rîînwii 0'tfrftTîritî Lib. FHL M usurgiâ M iris ea Enneafyllabay Deeaiy Uaba.
Stanza III Toni l. H. ilUV. lX. X i vV v Stanza I V.
that time inside. ,M, ttrtir III7IO7I7I
For tÀrtis Confonit Diffini Proposition V. q3
Given the sadness of the Sapphic tone she imposed upon him. he constructs the harmony of Floridosiylo, ' er1ifn'tTV'T Apphicym meter is most suitable for all musical modes, and for theatrical festivals. uifqtteconcentibussidonfcum; that if I were to put on some musical mods yel- let him constantly apply to himself the tenor of the rules prescribed in the preceding provisions Let him know this, and he will obtain his intention, but the Cimi Sapphica hendeeasyllaJbasint; banana The rhythms described here can also be applied to Phaleucius run Who then wishes to compose the Sapphic Horace above. V
Lamsatis Terris rituis Gentesgraue was afraid that he would not return Hail's father sent and blushing Pyrrha was followed by a new monk Dextersacra shot, castles Every time Proteuspecus acted high He was afraid of Vrbe To visit the mountains
He chooses from the fequépti'Pmace any mufarithms, and applies them to any tone in this menu, according to the precepts handed down in the past, he will dispose, and obtain with intent; E. g. Let it be the first; strophas muBrithra us, Cdlumnx III. Applied to the tone, as follows. jji. Toni.
fi- i; who v. 'i K(r Signed therefore with pentagrams the Cantus, the Tenor, and the Bass with the appropriate keys,
superimposed characters corresponding to each of them in the region? have- Asked twice.
i ti; I. â itrYj y Ic-Ji. He
rîî ms iTÎITY vv v v -àiSI PINAX Booklets Musar already M iris ed. tly P I N A X Musarithmos Florida? For meters of sapphkis any Hendecafyllabis. So that the loose fibers resonate.
Toni MI III. IV. X.
Phaleucia, herself Sapphic. Arìts éfyîdgna Confini Discord Stanza I I. Toni l. II. ili. IV. IX. X.
ttîtirtîtr0 otfttrrtîuî hmm Tî-tîiîmQO trtmtî? OH
riiînfiTfn ritttmjtraritm? ! riîr'tîrîi'riiîrv0 J sent LA I was oZMufurgia Mirafica, Pinax remaining for the Phaleucii and Sapphici. Stanza I I I f: psi Ttyii I. II. III. IV. X.
NOTE Artis Magna Conferii, Disson. žbidfqf, V xi "TsJ O T A In the appendix to the fourth chapter, we read about the mixing of the two kinds of meters the traditional bisce can also be applied to the Thus Phaleucius with Anacreon- It is very suitable for musical instruments. True, I have seen what was said in the appendix We discussed the business of combination. j -Tr i And so, from metrical music to various verse adaptations ctatu, there is nothing left to show how the Mufarithm has been reviewed for everyone that they had common languages, and until now no language, no idiom, in all Why should he be so barbarous? but not in these Musarithms of ours for every kind of meter to be animated by harmonics,
Proposition VI. Datù metris A donjs DaBylicis petitam Jùperea M elothe (tamperf wax
A simple or mixed operation can be established with the help of this type of Musarithm. or that which is the same, homogeneous, or heterogeneous with the Musarithms we only regret one pinac; Mixed or heterogeneous, with Mu sarith- let us mix flowery Musarithms with simple Counterpoints from the above Syntagmatjs Pinacic excerpts. Let's explain the vti and the method.
The first operation is simple.
We conclude that it is a simple way of working, with only one Pinacus Musarithmis
we are angry; Veruni and Mufarithmi in the pines from time to time almost all the same three times let them have a threat, that is to say, let the same scraper be used, the sixth or the fruitful one three tones z which you will know from the last two numbers of the Mufarithm base, which always will they be i or or48 which thing we have shown in the preceding passages to be disagreeable to the ears; iHincvt obtain the requisite variety in Music, the sixth Canon of the mixture to you will guard them carefully; But let us repeat the ingratitude of Tyion in this place. i; i, .; J i Ì nrv Paradigm I And so he went over the clustered adonias to a certain Melothesia with a flowery pen to be eaten Let the words follow. The joys of the world, soothing, remiss, anxious, religious. And one Mufarithmus may suffice to animate the words into a flowery harmony test this agreement. Sjt Mufarithmus floridus sequens (and tone given from the following pi- nace excerpts:
Take a dress or bimember in canon the sixth purpose, and let the first or octa number be established, the first column of numbers above the fin column of keys, those of the sixth e. g. tone is a character. Then you see which Ii- of the first Mufarithmus: let him answer, and ih- come to answer CBAGA Inpentagrammoitas of the first voice or the song as much the first points I have attached to each of them if the notes and the region of the Mufarithm have already been resolved see Lìb. Vil. Musurgìa Mirafica.
that is to say, if you superimpose them in that order, you will have the first compound voice, vt in sequence It is clear from your paradigm. Note in this place that the hxc signs denote pauses, which we carefully for by omitting to observe all harmony, confusion will be lost. Not the truth I will here repeat the above allegation that Tyro will be hallucinated by these things.
ZJF You see in the first pocket this sign that is the value of the pauses re m to note, in the fertile pocket in eight, in September, in six, in five, in five with the middle. the writings indicate, thus the sign in the pocket ""one touch; in 15. lo the culmination marks the first part of time, and so on the order of the rest. Whenever, therefore, a pause occurs between the marks of the meter, she you must be carefully placed, but there is little between the quanampentagra put it in the line of tnorum, for they can be placed in all, but vsus got it, that is, either within the middle of the lines, or at least within the sparsi that the note occupies the immediately following pause, they are assumed But here briefly suffice it to say generally about pauses, Purrò si the musarithms of the rest of the following words in a similar radon D by application column Dimere application of marks ijs corre- gjc If you resolve the spondents into harmonic forms, the singular vo "gg" will come forth when the song vt follows in one Adonis pointed out. Time to pause Column Astteye.
The soothing joys of the world give way to anxiety re li gio I will continue, if you would like to continue, assuming for the theme of Adonia this same musarithm you will change to another tone by this agreement: apply in the column of numbers or a letter C. And you will have what you want; Magna Conjom, tz- Diffom void, they will give the second member of the harmonic, as is clear from the paradigm. Again, if you promote the number i. or write the character D in the column of keys And then, if you refine the Mufarithms into the harmonic forms mentioned above, a third will be born the harmonic clause of the member Adonij.
If, in short, you either repeat the first Musarithm at the end, or ce you received, repeated you will proceed according to the rules, and it will come out for what it is to Adonius, the fourth harmonic clause, as it is clear In this example it is very clear how graceful the harmony is, even from the only Mufarithm At the end of the fertile diversity of the mixture of tones, Verù emerges no more Doubt cannot be encountered, nor can there be an occasion of hallucination for Tyrone, here at first We have set some rules to protect him. Regular In the song of the soft number i. or in the number column rum, they can never be applied, or they must be in the column of the column
litcrg Bfaii no. in col one applicator respóderit E sim in general, without the addition of a soft b, the number cannot be applied or A. if the number correspond to E with the addition soft so b B; for Melothe would commit the greatest error those who would use this application in the change of tones; In the rest, however, he will be able to apply with impunity to all the intervals and this is the universal rule We have read in Canon V. about forbidden intervals. Regulall. In the characteristic song of the hard number or nun which they may apply. square in the column of nails itayt number to answer the Fin column of the lock, neither the soft B can be applied, if the number refpó- derit E. In all the rest the clamps contain the free application of the said numbers can bear, vt therefore he regulvniuerfales are. Rule III So apply it anytime in a soft song for a change of tones tion of the numbers or occurs in B. then E requires the note b affected by soft, and when each application will be made in A as well as in E. it will necessarily lack b. Irernm when in the hard song the application of the numbers or occurs in B. then this B sario requires for himself the first six b. But if the application or was made above E then B not Cessario will lack b soft, in a manner exactly opposite to the previous ones, as for the columns of applicators it is clear
Rule IV But you must know when the chromatic sign is in the change of tones it is not yet done, consult Canon V. of Fates explained to us: for wherever in two bus&stumnis applicators, both in the column of foils and of the numbers two or run, then literally this sign gf must necessarily be added to that agreement, if he which note will go up, when, in fact, only one occurs in either column, then Rule V The beginning and end of the scraper should be of the same tone, middle at will he can vary the tones, as has been said. Rule VI If in the context of words Mufarithmis syllables not vfque and to which they would reply, in the absence of one or the other, you will be able to divide one mark into two, viz. focus is given to the deficient syllable, or if there is an abundance of syllables, you must contract one of them feel But this deficiency can easily be supplied by the Singers. Rule VII If you double down the notes of a certain clause, you will have new melodies Rule VIII Wherever it occurs in the Mufarithms base number or fignu that is, clauses of one and the same tone, where the veto is found in the Mufarithms base rz. is of different tones there on the side of the clauses. Therefore, to the variety of these admonitions, without further change, give toniper the column of application, if you can.
Rule Rule [X. Wherever these men in the Musarithm base numbers or occur, the clauses of these numbers are never in the beginning, nor for the middle, but always for you will be fined. Rule X. You shall diligently offer Cancne V. vt voices, when by any change the tone of the tones more? knowledge into the High, and the High into the other, as we have proscribed in the said Canon. Rule XI Siprterea happens, as if the song were more a? quodekcnderet, not interrum the flow of his foot in the notes, but you will order the entire clause from above; to endure the rest they are given, so that he ascends, you will not interrupt his flow in notes, but to so you will order the clause from below. And this rule? Anis is abundantly sufficient for perfection, so let us return to in our institution; After we have shown what a simple operation is, or homoge- denial; but we will also show how the operation is mixed or heterogeneous. we must establish Lib. VllI Musarsi a Mtnfica.
Paradigm II. A mixed operation. Therefore, assuming the same theme words, mixed or heterogeneous operation ex- to work with pediendajita for the beginning of the clause: select expinace tagmata of simple counterpoint Musarithm adonium quemuis in the first column# content; indeed, the next clause from the first pinacc of the florid Syntagma Counterpoint
you pick out the second Musarithm florid adonium, and then again in simple Con the trapunci Musarithm for the third clause, and finally again the Musarithm florida for the fourth clause, and the Musarithms will stand, as you see here. Musarithmus simplex
religious So you see in this single example how the simple flowers of Mufarithm are mixed they should But who knows the immense number and variety of combinations from this Musarithmorura describes the pe rmixing of fate? Certainly there are so many combinations of them in one pine tree, as the whole ocean cannot have many drops, however many times it changes tions will have individual? combinations of mixtures. For the number of these com of binations far exceeds the number of sands, of which the whole terrestrial group is capable is Where? they could be considered rightfully aJìùvctvt, except for the irrefutable Mathematician's scrutiny) We had long since settled on that truth. I have therefore taken extracts mixed with Musarithms, appropriated from the pinacs, and applied side by side given the tone of the columns, transfer the numbers one with the notes, according to the rules in given to them in the pentagram of words, and the next Melothesia will come forth.
mistakes xxumxVJ a tu iti i j Ciati The art of Conson Disson The pleasant joys of the world send away the cares of the rest of the world Here is the paradigm of mixed operation? C A P V T VI I Panglofia Musurgica siue de Application Musarith' manner to all the other languages of the whole world.
From the Hebrew language in verses and rhythms, to the Sacred Language Societ. IE S V ProjfèJJores,
About the feet of the Hebrew verses. the Hebrew tongue, the first and the origin of all other Jinguarum, .Musurgic Art seemed to take from the same cam We may treat the Musurgy briefly let us preface some things, the poetry of the Hebrews is very ancient, as we have shown elsewhere, whose meters consist of fuispedibus syllables, vt in Latin j two feet in verses they only call the previous one. yiao The theme is change, and one thing is certain, the syllable Yoga j The other is called ItV iathed this is the nail, consists of two syllables, vna short and long again, and answers to our Iambo; vt give it to thee, 1ÌDO reaper. And of these variously permitted shunts another three viz. Spondeus, Bacchus, Creticus, vt follows Cretan Bacchus Spondeus
amn I was heartbroken God I owe By what numbers do the Hebrews measure their poems? Hebrews Liè. VHL Musuraia Mirifica.
They call it a Hebrad song. nh3 baith that is the house, and generally towards the end of the car they connect the two lines together, as is usually done in our elegies and couplets, the previous I am nVîdaleth, that is, the back portami OJtlTiegorid is the closure, because the daudityâappellant; as is clear in the following verse.
fn mVc? Where is Mary? He has given us grace Our song will praise you
If the poem does not exceed ten lines, it is called porrò, pioti pasuc, if it does exceed ten says, diciturWschsrìfjue song,
A mouthful of Hebrew rhythms. he; John
Ebr$i adfua carminacondendaRhythm like salt to the user It is true The rhythm of the three bus sere modes. At first when alone; Again, simple or many they meet in one way, without taking account of the points. vt and it is called Rhythm but this is transitory or vulgar, that it passes so or that things are scarcely connected, When the rhythm is visible or elegant. 'ixl Raudirituiicum in every Rhyth-
C1? u vna X li M UYJ My members were similarly ending as TP qil
dargchderech The third rhythm is said to be praiseworthy, when the ducesyllabce similarly desists ears cli
nenter fiunt3vt ta'Jrîx 'octf Bone33 I will lift my heart, even with my Astelibbi gam caphaim
But anyone who wishes to know more about the various forms of Hebrew verses should read on Felix Elias Lenitas R. Kimchi, and others; We must not overstep the bounds of our Art
Let's see, let's go back to the institute. Proposition I Give it to the Hebrew, and to the tone of what you call Mclothefia fetitapercere. . therefore the following Hebrew
Vp I will be gentle inftar Aquila and hininuli iy D3 Eliam is strong as a leopard or Leo DIK I will set my face like a I put it
C Sgl bi Yzg Conson, Discord, rPof0 wtro; you will organize the phonotactic system in exactly the opposite way as here until. give
When this song is played let it be te. traftrppb. on Iambic, Archilochic, accept-. Pinacem V. The counterpoints of the simple excerpts of Muiarithm quatrains separately, vtie- IJnvq
By this act, work according to the Rules Canons in' the preceding tra to the rich will come forth the quasi-Hebrew Mdothcsia, as in the above example pa- tejQuot if you long for Florida, Muiarithmi from Pinace II. Syntagma II
belt The Hebrews were painted all over the Orientals from the right to the left after the manner of Cfteri contrary to his Mere reading the signature of pentigrams, vti notes! In fact, it was necessary to take the opposite position; From here in retrograde order the totoccello utters another different melody, therefore, either in a straight or in a backward order if you sing it, Melothesiasua will always be perfected.
in cantable order. -
'zziz-zz%w 't: litòti ìfo'ln LdsoihKirxoneli ait timpani KehalamiscB Gam atjlertèmer rulabi Bich Kalkentscber uizbi yswhx lixis os ly ax uso iMZ nm j h! A
t -cH txwisFx What? . W. H UXvvyX v.
Dè Votfi Syriaca fiue Chaldaicafine de njersibiu, Rhythms of Syrians Chaldeans To the Fathers of the IESV Society in Syria, and especially the Maronite the inhabitants of Lebanon, whose own language is Syriac, Given the Syriac meter quouisfuser him melothefiam to make a stink: Among the Syrians there are many and varied books containing chiefly divine offices, the genres of songs are laughed at; yet let us not be bound to enumerate them at the end of necessity let us draw out only two of these which we shall say can be easily collected; the most noble of all, the most frequent, the most necessary, and worthy of whom it is spoken of, To each one of the most powerful works is given rum from St. Ephrem to the most eloquent Doctons, and to the greatest lights of the whole East they are established, therefore; the names were drawn by lot, for before Ja-qa Mschuchtho iaakuboitbo, that is a Lacobitic song j another Epbreimoitho that is Ephre- it is said to be mythical. And the song of St. Jacob consists of three pauses, as the Syrians speak, each of which must be of syllables, as in the following Lacob's rhythm is clear.
Dachhpheihun Chur baalotho Cur bachtohs For them look back on the sacrifices look back on the sins It is true that the meter is said to be perfect and absolute, and the poetry of prayer sen and the song should be completed in a timely manner, two or six songs, that is to say, compacted with pauses, fcribique are used, as is clear from the passage quoted. They will appear more elegantly and gracefully, fi that is, words ending in the same way terminate, because it is in different ways; Pri but if the first pause of the first one is followed by the pause of the other; the second second, and the third third Let be the answer. flo%aA. 9 i)io î l—loi
Cmosagyn, holcn thehre Cmo kalilin Holen rthte each and every one of them Dobroiutho You see how, with a single pause, or the members of the verses ending in the third only one carm, and another third, or at least all of them, with a pause of the song: or, at least, of a better poem, as the other yields in the same way. It is true that I said that the greater, and the more frequent is the pause, the similitude of ending, the more elegant and graceful you songs There is scarcely any other language which presents its rhythms with greater grace than Lin gua Syriaca because of the multitude of terms ending in the same way. By the way let the words of the poets suffice
mio t Zliîi" for: Artis Confini, Disotti Proposition Given the Syriac fa6 Chaldaic meter and the tone in which he requested it to complete the melothesia
If he wants to use the Syriac meter in our Musarithms, he composes the first meter nat, or from the said plucks the composition, Notsquens meter è hb o We have spoken of the love of knowledge fyllabum, vt tequitur. - Lobo hab Iulfom God give doctrine aino dorchem iulfom Who loves doitrina
Val rabo dtnakffchafir And the Master who teaches the sound 'eibdoih rabo bsmalcutock Seruus will be great in your kingdom
When, therefore, the said tetrastic meter is of Anacreonticii; exercise foot from Pinate Simple Coritrapuncts for Mufarithms anacreo- riches, work as thou hast been taught by those who have gone before, and the next Me- Syriac lothesia, in tone
Abdoh hab malcutqck Val rabo dmalef fchafir Lai no dorchem iulfono Aloho hab iulfono Ia-aSa&j lusiXeu I1. JJ With this method and the energy of the Syrian Iinguf expert, you can write all kinds of songs he will be able to compose, and then, on the given meters, to complete the requested melothesia i Qui but if they wish to render the art familiar to themselves, they will be able Mularithmic numbers iiwa
number Lib FUIMusuraia Mirifica. Syriac numbers, which are nothing else than prirr literaz alphabetici Syiaci, vtin the whole Syrian community will be a pillar of peace for the enemies of the Idiots; even they understand absolutely nothing from the Latin language; Melothesia stc exhibited, recto retrograde or dine can always be sung best with harmony.
Of Arabic Poems. To the Society IESV Fathers in Egypt, Syria Sc all residing in Asia. The wit and elegance of Rabica's poetry seems to yield to no other, nor to indeed, it is a difficult way for any nation to forge a greater spring license to them, when among this nation I found the Qur'an, No fear of overstepping the bounds of being betrayed by that rae, and, B therefore himself at the very least, take account of it. In the same way, therefore, with the Latins and the Greeks, feet from syllables, meters from feet so also among the Arabs, from syllables, feet, from feet, are born. And the feet Indeed, among the Arabs there are two, the first of which is called sababid and is a chord. the other vatadid is a palusse or pile, taken from the similitude of the structure of the house leu re toricità the structure of the poem dicuntxxlJf saai beìth alscbaar. For from the hair and skin The Arabs make tents with the bones of animals, for the security of a house or a tent with the help of Abes cò what; It is extended by the pegs and pegs, thus the structure of the meters with the help of the feet, which they themselves chor-ile you give and say the pins, it is finished. Cho. da consists of two out of two letters conso nantus, the first of which always has a vowel, for in these men, who is the wool, that is not it is clear; the latter, however, either has a vowel, or it does not; st does not have, it is called elsabab clhafij that is the string of Jeuis, as it was evident in the words mentioned above, st veròvtraquesttcù the vowel is then said J-aìâM elsabab eltakil that is chorus give high vt in these it is clear that the father works Abo to him. come here The paxilla, however, consists of three consonants, two of which have a vowel, one it is deprived of the vowel; If they have a vowel, they are immediate? ctu. n vthade here, ie literally a resting medium between each vtam known. vt rake vir-r, then is called a distinct pin. Therefore, among the Arabs, there are four feet you are more nor fewer to const; whatever kinds of songs should be played; And from these The fathers are composed by successive chords and pegs.
If, therefore, the Arabs have many forms of verse; still more so with the common people in those verses which seem to agree with the Latins; they also have May the thing in panging the verfibuslicence which you have seen other nations; neglecting the allusion with sharp turns, nor even observing the integrity of the meter they want But with the Italians the measure is always the same, and with hendecasyllables it is mostly used. or vti ij are the verses which I sdruccioli daily; As for the Italians and the Arabs
they go in pairs in this way, and each one of them ends with a loud clanging of their feet there; which Latin Rhythm, the e9li kapbieh calling the term indeed-# it is said of the former verse (Jejjxlì alaaruth i that is the proposition, but the term of the second verse it is said to be destnens Altarabid is a pulsation, and both are said at the same time mestaci that is, the door; R I came Artis Magna Conjont, Dissoni diftinauntin
rnochtalsetaldaiereto circle variation circle composite, drculusîm. liscumsitemm- There are three types. g3f elhazagi elragiàzi to ramme Cantilenatine or Satyra A short song for sure Madrigal improuiia modulation, arena cb succisas lyllabas. For the rest of the various forms of meters, as I said, the curious reader consults the Arab poets cited Proposition III. f"Given the meter Ar, I say to the tone that I will become a fuser to dress him as a stinker. It follows the Arabic rhythm under the form of Euripides heptaphyllabi.
dB Allaelrahmino Chalakallinfchfna, Almoh olbiina Merciful God He created man He taught him intelligence
And he placed him in the balance of his will Gialoh bemiz4na Tone I Euripedaeus is therefore going to compose this tetrastrophe out of Pinacellus. Contrapuncti simpliquator Mufarithmcs given four Rhythms re condentes, and applied the column of keys to the column of Toni with the help rare vt up to now, the following Melothesia Arabica will appear. Who really The rascals who are ignorant of the Latin language want to instruct our Musurgia in here, be silent there are Mufarithmspinacs in Arabic numerals, in each column. # teaches the numbers here attached.
Melothesia Arabica can be sung in the correct order presented in the Basis. f'šriii-s-f4- Alia elrachmano Chalakallinfchfna Almoh olbiana Gmlbemizina LA Vili, ìAuJUrgiaWiirifica. GsbUlóthesia Arabie A tone Dorio redo retrograde in cantabile You see in this paradigm the remarkable ease of composing the Arabic can tions, to be dressed in both a straight and a backward order. On the Poetry of the Samaritans The Amaritans in all respects the Hebrew language, although hardly any books are found among them. poets, (I do not know a few hymns which Gazi usually recites in the sacred what is the iambic oil, and indeed 04veyyu5 are consonant, but in the identity of the they are not worth it. True, this idiom, vti and all other things, are easily adapted to the meter poster, if it is possible to establish a poem of this kind, work from nt, vt in the following four stanzas It is clear that we have come to the standard of rhythms of hendecasyllables we got married Samaritan tetra (Rhythmic trophon. wvv mK7 lin natine sen žnis, mn Schibbbuelohacolamme haarez Sehibbhu talmez bearcha colma shatez Ki huhu matcacolmabasamaim Hupooelcolmabeauir lemdtm. Praise God, all nations Praise the maker of what is on earth Because he is the King of all in heaven Operator of everything in air water.
I t' m creeps In general On this iaityr tetrastrophon Samaritans compofitamqiiecantilena selections VliLPinace quatnorMufarithmos quotlibet quossiiuxta rules handed down in this admonish the souls, revealing melothesia. Mulanthmi from the first Pinacius VIII. himself rie have been selected as lying down.
You are in the order of the dean. WWWiZMW
because of the beauir vemaim of the pitch You see, therefore, the manner of proceeding in foreign languages. We have given about the eastern languages which are the opposite of the western languages in reading and in writing they follow the manner of some Eastern languages will we give paradigms? which; but they have the same way of reading.
To the Society. IESV Fathers in Ethiopia:
I have not found any other hymns of the Ethiopians, except those to which they make sacred vows, phonically they are very much rhythmic, but none of quantity or number taking account of the syllables, it is clear from here, that no Nation is so barbarous which does not innately affect poetry and music in its hymns by some instinct. The truth
vt fpecimé you see some of this language, the following tettastrophon vEthiopicum com We put it adapted to the form of Anacreonticus. Ghee Lih. Cheap fri usar gì a friìrìfica. Sisyphus fìé JL (jihon falach [amai Ndusfluuius celestial
Who irrigates with healthy waters dC: 4fVYh f SO: don: .3 Mt. Filling the earth with thousands (Pdotì à
stantiafalana Indeed, abundance satisfies us He will therefore compose a song on this kind of language, from Pinae e selects four Musarithmos in any series. vt follows. then assuming the tone you want, you will animate them in harmony according to the precepts of the tradition and the next Mclothesia will appear. M elothefia JEthiopica terttj toni Rhythmica.
frielothefia JEthiopica V fi I. toni, ratfo retrograde cantable order
Gibonfalachsamdi ZaiflasWatubfmai Madurtdla Ubala ataUfaalanu.
i-y Behold, the paradigm of Melothesias thiopies i eode completely artistic genius and flower I will give you the above-mentioned meters You picked out the Musarithms, and worked in the traditional method. k. j About Poeji Armenia To Soc. IESV, aJiarumqueRèligionumPatresArmènoš2 Reitieni in their metrical ability, in all things follow the Grgcos to which the rites so they also drew on their resources. Among the rest, however, Poets snastenet Nierfcs, the patriarch of the Armenians, and the most famous poet of the nation. From q If you know Melothesias, the theme of Triftychon, hendecasyllable, is followed by the following verse
Artis M'àgiuQ Consonì3 Dissoni. Tritrophon hendecasyllabum Armenian 'i3nin. wfij. utjQ' Sniputjh tjts(tinuttj Xuuwitijb- mplijujfyufb fnju hm tjutjnjti jum 3un-Qm Garrachat parraz nuruche smidaz luhs Ansdìeziet driecbagan luhs dzaebia buchin Pirchizietpugurizsesa puta this is: Spkndorglori renews the light of the mind And so the light of the uncreated sun rose upon this soul Redemptor to redeem Vniuerfibancsestina Quicunquegitur fupra this trisiychu hendecalylabu to compose de- He was there, he said to himself from Pinace VIII. choose three Musarithms, and the usual tone it will be destroyed according to the rules proscribed j&prodibit the following Melothesia A. me indicate: let there be three Musarithms following, and let the tone be the second.
Melothesia Armenieseeuncù tone.
Garrachat parraz nuruche smidaz luhs Aafdieziet ariechagâ luhs dzachia huchus Tirchi zietpuguriz scia puta
"Pirchcî likPlll. MusurgiA Mirifica, k
Given the meter of Gnecofuser that Melothestas claimed to match Of Pošfì Gtxeòrùm there is nothing that I can speak, since Latin and everything else from that instead it will flow; But let me only add an example, lest I make this language pretentious, from whence, as I have just said, or from the tonte all iciency? Let's see the past flow with contempt.
Ep78fuvifcettf KuTrr duck fk set yours Kctyy fittiiSbV ctfiXvî HtoîS Avy S HkAihj Aisif
He will therefore compose above the following Anacreontic meter in the style of Florido, modula tion i Seligat first tone queerjt v. g. fruitful, then cxPinace III. Musurije Florida selects the following Musarithmos. Greek meter t
XiyiF AthV fx Aa3rrcs A âjt Eara Again you will be able to vary this Melothesta in many ways; by crossing them, or by transposing them into a triple, or by transposition, or by transpositions Gindiuerfos tones, as we have taught above. -oSoVfi. I V I LI. Of the rest of the Western languages r, i ì liAv.
They are accidental languages and are called il ae propri? , quibuS Europe vtif uri Suotquc
frè Spanish, French, Italian, German, eiufq; Fili? ca, Illyrica, from where Polonica came, Rii thenica, Boheiprca. All these languages are subsincó- by giving verses he established the metrical laws; However, most of the given netra are Iambic similar, both heptaphyllabic and hendecasyllable. Hexameter for Pentameter,
Sapphicus, neglects all that consists of dactyls anapstis; Moreover, they all have Nations this, that is to say, make their rhythms homophonous, that is, ending in the same way, or im in the middle, or in the alternative! sibifucccdetibus meters i adeò innate or from nature itself minibus is Rhythmic Poetry drent, let us now see, the Italians are most fond of the union of Anacreontjci with Phaleu, that is, heptasyllabic with a hendecasyllable meter.
oThletrumAnacreonti co-Phaleucium. j such a hexastrophon
images of Jon really Del raggirar delle celefle sphere Che gyrando la su co' suoi contenti. r
Fan che godan qua giù I'mane mind; r. To match the above-mentioned meter of Melothesia Florida, take three columns from the binacel Musurgii Florida VLSyntagmata according to the number and meters his which are alternately applied to the procession rum, the other hendecasyllables Tertia Anacreonticoi um. Quarta-Hendecafyllaboru, ImA X. TI i. ritA mlnrofii
The Mufarithms are selected in any order, because we have selected these in no particular order as they first met, and the operation having been completed according to the prescribed rules, the fe-
that Melothesia In the mean time, I would like to study the fummo of the chronometers
with each point and number correfpondcnte$? ftiperimponas, superimposed pauses, ff alicu let two meet Notx corresponding to each of the Mufarithms, there are as many as the numbers mm- that tah. tq stu4i they are to be carried out, that is, unless the gmjgia is sown at one time desired (T ÎTÌ
, v: on Melo- JV Sil Lib. II. Mujitrsta Mirafica. Melothefia phthalic adapted to the meter;
jiaswisa le celesti sfeté Fan che godan quà giù humane mentii'' De Hi smanico metro.
The Spaniards are wont to construct their verses in exactly the same way as the Italians, viz the aggregation of Iambic lines or monocolor, or hcterocolon, Rbyt- a certain perfect consonance of omgiapdrut, as is evident in the following paradigm. O. ctostychon Hiipanicum. Si à Homer la Odissea tati nombrada No less than those works dedicated If you give Aeneas the famous Maron Ashes of eternal and warlike honor They hold on to the generous God Laureus fan all crowned Tbero con mil b at other victorious Chasing the stones with the sword.
Rhythm Hifpaniusj. You see Rhythm French Rhythm German
Artis Magnoe Consoni, (Dissoni Do you see the reason for the Spanish poetry? would like to apply stros, let him join the columns next to the polysyllables of the meter, and work vt it was said, and the Meiotheua quanta came forth. We do not add melody, but it. We leave Tyrone's exercise to rescue him.
About the French metro. And the French is quite similar to the Spanish. no other example of snow seems to be required. Decaftrophon Gallicum Rhythmicum ofto-enneajyllabum. Of the Glory of Paradise There lesfensfondent en delices La dans la pampe le bonbeur L'ame triomphe auc honneur De la deffaite de fes turns La Ics Anges par des concerts Accordans leur lutes leuraires Chantent ks los la viffoire Dont tant about generu X guerriers Ont faìt dans le tempie de gioire Fleurir leur-noms leur Lauriers, On this kind of meter he is going to compose Melothesia, a selection from Pi- each appropriated by the noses of the meter Musarithms correcting the meters or simple or flowers, and the operation according to the aforesaid rules instituted will produce the desired results About the German meter. The Germanic idiom is most suitable for verses and rhythms, whence innumerable volumes composed of German rhythms of this kind appear, in every ma
of the third kind. But what we say of the German, of the Belgian, and of the English the language of this: the daughters are to be understood. But see the following example. German Rhythmic Tetrafljchon, Lfichts irdifch fuit des tnenfchen hertz. , Kein Kein lujiefs flillet; lust, day fred iti lauter fchmertz, Han Gott allein efs füllet. These verses are based on the octosyllabic Iambic of Archilochus. He will therefore compose above this one the harmony of the mode, take the expinacibns of the fifth simple Counterpoint or the third Con- florid trapunci, correcting the Musarithms given to the verses, and working as learned you are, and the requested Melothefia will appear. Tyro will be able to set up an example for himself. Lib. Cheap TsAuJurgia Mirafica. X I I Of the Illyrian metro. Lyrical language much so bole enjoying (namely Polish Bohemian alhrquepîures they recognize her as their mother) towards their own in a manner not dissimilar to that of the Rhythmicèsiueper meters in the same way he completes the ending; Therefore nothing else is needed here except a paradigm, above in which case, if anyone desires Melothesia, let him work according to the traditions handed down and preferably he goes to his target. And what are the principal languages all Europe? with which our Art Irgica would have appeared. If the language is true? if they have been, you should know that they are almost dialects one of the listed languages, so you will have no difficulty in Musarith- to accommodate the said dialects. But I do not bring the American languages Puas and Eastern languages, the understanding of which the divine goodness grant me she was born, I wanted to bring her; And that in favor of Our Fathers and other Religious of those who sweat the honor of God in different parts of the world, that all things are for the honor I solemnly vow that the cause of God, of the Virgin Mother, and of the health of our neighbours, may be yielded up. CAPVT VIII Musurgy Rhetoric. P R O OE M I V M. I have learned that Rhetoric tends to sway people's minds in one way or another he can stir up and move the music, yet the greater inijfdcm moving it He alone will be able to obtain pressure, who ignores the records of the ancient Scriptures. he does not read For hearing a kind of harmonica? the modulation of the various substitutes eff cacia, cx the maddened meek, chaste from the lustful, from the gravest infirmities We read that they had been restored to good health, and that they had finally been freed from Dazin. Of Rhea but we have seldom perceived the like. A greater force, therefore, is hidden under Music, a greater energy gia in affecting the minds of mortals variously efficacious, as in Rhetosica, whose The reason why this place does not take place, we will treat in the Physiological Mufurgia fufiùs. When they seemed to be stumbling, as they were advancing Rhetoric in a not unlike manner, We would also deliver a new and hitherto longed-for reason to many, that of the divine Numi I trust that his presence will extend me in this part, and that we may not be longer, let the matter itself be dealt with we go a remarkable poetical composition of the discord was established; so from words and names what are you arranging appropriately, various? statements are born, from these periods, from the periods of art Finally, a persuasive speech is born through the tropes of sigurifuè woven together. attached, which? Indeed, it can be established in a threefold way, by the indicative, deliberative kind, Ze encomiastic, but our Mufurgia proceeding in a parallel way, while He adapts the mufarithms to words, and produces different accounts for the meaning of the same thing. as if tjf. Arti'i C onsoni, Biffimi you are some kind of enunciation; From the harmonic continuation of which they are born God, finally, from these artifices through flowery and colored Musapithmes, or through figures Some of the tropes are woven into the songs to take for granted the emotions of the various souls to be excited by the meaning of the theme, most effective; And indeed with three words to say three kinds of modulation correspond to the nerves; Deliberative Enharmonic, Judi cial Chromatic, gnconuafticpm and finally Diatonic. ed here elsewhere the fuses -elm Of the various affections of the mind to which the mouse inclines. icuri Rhetoric, exhausted by various arguments and reasonings, through the troupe of figures
the various contexts now delight, now sadden, now anger, now to pity, now to indignation, revenge, violent attacks, he calls out to another of them, what the Speaker intends, inclines the Hearer to agree. Yes Music for a variety of pe with the context of rhythms and scattered tones, it stirs the mind in various ways; Monetan You cut off our soul by three most powerful means, of which the tank is from a certain root they are born later; Now these are the following three general conclusions: the first is joy, yours contains under itself the affection of love, magnanimity, impetuosity, desire], which ex they find their origin in blood; it generates the appropriate choleric, hatred, indignation, revenge: Second let the general sense of release rejoice with slow motion, it generates a sense of piety, I love ris in God, likewise constancy, modesty, fervour, chastity, religion, contempt of human things, to the love of the Chiestis at last. The third is the seat of mercy ctus, under which remain all those who are afflicted with phlegm and black cholera, toj there are sadness, lamentation, pity, languor, and the like, because I return this class they can be loved But how can such things be achieved by the power of music: let them be stirred up in the soul, God it is in harmonic physiology; it just has to be shown at last, let's close it Let there be tropical suns, which figures are proper to excite the said affections: let them be, and why in the first place let us speak of twelve tones; then of as many tropes or harmonic figures as they have a disposition in themselves, to excite the soul, now to these, now to those. . i i i Of the twelve tones, and their nature coldness. From the Tones and their disposition, in the following books, it is actually m, therefore nothing else is needed here, except to declare the nature of each in a few words. It is true the most important author. Here we determine the tones according to our own opinion, and so everywhere we leave his information on this. Therefore the first sound, if it is more intense and more relaxed, is by nature suitable for dances and dances. if he had been remitted to the divine piety and love of the celestials that I longed for it can also be snow. on this tone the Antiphon was composed: Alma Redem the mother of the child The second tone is appropriate to tenderness, and belongs to the acquired mercy: expri. He who is more intense, could also cut down the errors to the extent of the lot. Tertlustonus, to the asceticus of the third order inclines, mcestition, tears, commiseration not fitting, the hymn was composed to this tone: Hail the Queen. Fourth Lib. I was Wonderful.
The following tone is almost similar to the previous one in all respects, and the feelings are of the same class suitable for expressing lamentation, anxiety, calamity, and miseries of every kind It raises themes. Fifth, he is Ecclesiasticus, he shines with the greatest beauty, for he has I know not what dignity tis, and heroic majesty, with which you were able to provoke men and women to great things is given Sixthly, he solicits the affections contained in the first class, of military ferocity, if more relaxed. if he is more relaxed, he can be furious to excite all the emotions
The seventh breathes modesty, joy, and victory.
Ottauus, fertile with affections: the class in stirring up the souls of men, .suitate If his majesty is present. ; Ninth, I will take revenge on him for lewd and voluptuous words, threats, which if more intense, I will steal it also raises the issue and confusion. Tenth, Modesty, meekness, contemplation of heavenly things, love. he breathes the divine, most apt to express the things of the divine. Nineteenth, Words require sweet, gentle, pleasant, and matter of delight bent The twelfth shares the same property with the sixth. And this is the property of the twelve tones according to my opinion; Of whom the reasons given to God will be assigned in Musurgical physiology.
Rhetoric consists of three parts, discovery, arrangement and elocution, so- Sc our Musurgical Rhetoric; The suggestion of Musurgicq Rhetoric is nothing else, but the arrangement is beautiful, as it is suitable for the adaptation of the words of the Musarithms the expression of some of the same through suitable applications of marks. The speech is fine Melothcsia herself? complete with all numbers: tropes and figures adorned by song, exhibition Indeed, the whole form of our Mufarithmic artist is clear to them.
Chord melody: it is the modulation of the listener that is suitable for the rest, and it will be proved if it excites the hearer, and makes him listen to the rest, but this will be done let the beginning of the fi be high, faaue fooOF. um harmonica granfiate plenum; with words For cranes from the assumed tone of the clauses would be vicious, if someone assumed over the tone of Melothes is the beginning of the ablio who would begin the song with immeasurable diminutions of the Voice, unless perhaps of words another theme would suggest, ' vt in that cantilena of Mònteuerds he expresses the flight, he adorns the flight of words with the smallest notes. There would also be a defect, if any the clause of linen due, in toltiti at the beginning he would put the songs.
ii iiip am 'J j i a. 'i U, t
V r l. Vk k V V. lArtti Confini. Disson
Ornate. Our Rnatus Mufurgi# consists in this, as a text of notes, interludes corresponds to the meaning of the words, for if they mean a quick movement of the mind orna-gg, he expresses him aptly with quick notes, if he is slow, with slow ones. But the context The musician, if the periods are well connected with each other, avoids the same intervals proximity; The words are attended to, some of which, while others are found more confusing, They will also make a more consonant harmony, so the [huge] voices [concelebrate J In this Mufurgic art we take the Igures in a different way, as do the Rhetores; In fact, this is about it in reality we take tropes figures. Now the rhetorical figure consists in the variations of the same. by the addition, doubling, multiplication, or repetition of a word, by way of speaking tis, questioning, rebuking, proposing great, lofty, admirable, base, and indi things know I concur with the voices of those who are not so conveniently able to close our institution when giving harmonically, you are too distracted: although in a recitative style that kind of figures are better quadret, while obviously vnavox has the greater convenience of expressing them. Orators further call the Trope of speech from its own meaning into another curayff- protect the change, which when our Musurgies can be applied with difficulty, we tropes taking the letter, we say that there is nothing else, but certain periods of Melothesia, connoting emotional affection; and such two according to the diversity of twelve tones We have also established ten; dos censeruntjcùm denotate the sunken affections of the soul, proper) to the Musician, and they are the following: of love, of joy, of escape, of dissolution, of hatred, of ferocity, of impetuousness, gravity, modesty, temperance? , religion, compassion, mourning, lamentation, sadness: . The names, bro, of the Figures, by whom we properly pray, are the following. Pause, Repetition, Climax, drink Complexus, Polysyndeton, SyrnploceOmoiopt9ton, Antitheton, Anabasis, Catabasis III. Vo- is-f III. It is called the Climax fiue gradation, the little period of the harmonics you gradually ascend. and it is usually used, in the affections of divine love and fidelity to the heavenly father, viz. that Ola- di. nasmusid is a sigh, which consists of various sighs during pauses, the sighing emotions of the old soul really expresses IV. stue is a complex harmonic period in which voices quast in vnu fi c5-
they seem to breathe, and it is usually used in affections of machinations, such as Clement's no Pope, Let the kings of the earth stand against the Lord, and even more against his Christ,
V. stue filimily defining figure, is the harmonic period which similarly ends in sepius repeated, adhibiriq; usually in a serious affirmation, denial, TOV# or by rebuke, viz. that Prnestim; (We fools. ) Antitheton, stue Contrapositum, is the harmonic period, where the opposites are attached Avm9i7or, we express Stucut that of James the Dearest, which Heraclitus laughed at and Democritus leveled ctum is labeled, and that of Leo Leo j. I sleep, and my heart is awake. We express those who remember high things, viz. that of Morals (Ascending Christ VIII. The descent of the catabasts stu is a harmonic period, in which the opposites of the previous affections He pronounced it with feelings of servitude, humility, and depression, and at the same time, inwardly expressed things mendis, viz. that of Malfami. But I, having humbled myself too much, and that Mastentij, come down they run m hell alive. KuxXù)7i5 stue circulation is a harmonic period, in which voices such as in the circle Kv they seem to be done, and he put it in words expressing a circular action, viz. that of Philippi On the mountain, I will rise and circumambulate the duality. X. Which flue fugue is the harmonic period, suitable for the words indicating the fugue, whose escape from that way, my love; he also succeeded in expressing his actions, whose indeed, the most frequent of all XI. Ofifltcani is similar to the harmonic period, when the actions rerunvpropstè expri- Opuuwf. mu n tur, vti dtim period of individual voices diversarefurnt, vti it: (Tympanizant, Let them play the lyre, they beat us and shine with their robes before the supreme Trinity) in this cantilena- sts The drum is very important, and the voices of all kinds of instruments. XII. A sudden abruptness is the harmonic period, by which the matter is expressed as soon accomplished mus, &vt has a great deal of place at the end, viz. Behold, these are the tropes and figures which the Musurgi are wont to use, let us gird ourselves now,
S Y N T A G M A I II. ; y i. e
Presenting Musarithmos Musurgies Rhetoric.
Of those things which belong to the Rhetoric Mufurgia, nothing remains but the way in which let us see how the aforesaid can be applied. Just as, therefore, in Mufurgia the metrical stue of poetry by Pinaces Mufarith- We have included the whole race of friends; thus and in this third Syntagma absolute Mu- We show the reason and method of rising Rhetoric, which would be more convenient The whole syntagma is divided into Qgorum I. The pinax is two-membered, and contains polysyllables, indeed the penultimate line of the former gorum, the next penultimate of the short Musarithmos, and the same with that in the first We have presented a syntagmate. In this, however, it differs; that the notes taken pleonastically or has links
there pi Art Magna Conson PIN AX Mufarithmos Rhetoric Music containing for Contrapunstc simple and variously adorned. Bifly slide Pleonasmus notar. cjuf diliune'ico movement. Trisyl slide
Picene notes broken Tetraphyllum slide III. Pleonasm of the characters tract pentaphyll slide IV. broken pleonasm
irt mv. VI III III IV
I see Note; shining They flow with movement I repeated together tion îU5îV
VI ftTÎAÎ rt, TT? , t VI Viu VI
Uttî5Utftî878 jg day three tîîi]. ij. ij. ij. îUî ìj. ij. ttirtî ìj. ij. mm3iiim ij.
he lived VII VII Cheap îîtrîij. ij. ij. ij.
Complete pleonasm of the characters rnTij. ij. ij vioVIu VII ij. ij. ij. ij ij. ij. ij. ij
rtmî3tt, i VII ij. ij. ij XiîlTmîîij. ij. ij
Pleonasmus ini ger notarmi rtmiii. ij
TTÎtrtîij. i ij. ij îUttmij Cheap Cheap cheap Cheap
ttmrtîij. ij. ij îtmmij. ij. ij
ij. ij. ij Lib. VllI Mu fargia Mirafica. v
ILPinax contains Musarithmos MeJothefias Florida with various first-class affections adapted to excite, and adapted to penultimate long polysyllabic words. III. Pmax contains Musarithmos melothefias florida; varices fertile the same; cliffs suitable for exciting emotions, for various polysyllabic words with penultimate short accom modified IV. Pinax contains other florid Musarithms, syncopated, diminished, artistically tied together, for various emotions of the third class, suitable for exciting, and polysyllabic words pe- last long accommodated. V. Pinax contains Mufarithmos for the same sentiments, but with short penultimate words accommodated Pinax contains Musarithmos Motectico, Ecclesiastico, Madrigalesco Ityl and borrowed
VII. Pinax, containing Musarithmos, presents the context of artistic flights. VIII. Pinax Musarithmos Polyphonius, that is in iz. So I am with words folds, which presents a florid counterpoint. Musarithmos stylorecitatioe exhibits.
X. presents chromatic and enharmonic Musarithms, And these are the Pinaces, with whom our Musurgical Ark fuses, to a perfect com bringing the knowledge of laying down, which, however, in this book, partly because of the multitude of things We would therefore make the work more difficult, partly so that we would not open the coffers so noble to anyone, con we left it
EXPLANATION OF THE PLEONASTIC PIN Simple Counterpoint for Rhetorical Muforgia JfAbet here the pinax of the four pillars and every one you will strike again in three was allocated; The first series of each coi unmx contains the Musarithmos Contra- in bisyllables, trisyllables, tetrasyllables, pentasyllables, etc. He showed each of them. Securtdaserieg contains the numbers of the penultimate polysyllables We present both long and short quambraes in this way. This is trisyjlabu penultimate short; penultimate quatrisyllabum brue i pentasyllable-penultimate Thus we present the short and long fic of Deceterisipenuitimam veró. trisyllable pe nultima longa; penultimate quatrisyllabum longa, v penultimate longa pentasyllable ga. YJhectalyllabum the penultimate long&fic of the rest. The third letter contains notes, polysyllables corresponding to unguals, which we call pleonasms, and it is nothing else than the multiplication of the Musarithms represented in the characters. We produced but the Musarithmos in this Pinace from trisyllabis to dd pentasyllables, because here The Musarithms are insufficient for all the concatenation of the words of the song to be expressed. Let us declare the wonderful truth of this Pinacus. f Note, therefore, that Melothetas did not femper the same cadcntijs flue intervallisvti, but the same to repeat the clause according to a varied mixture of tones, as above in the canon itself xto was delivered. For if any one both from this and from the following Musarithmis con he would at once pick out the clauses according to the given theme he would make Melothefiam complete with numbers, and with an artful and florid prbceffu adorned; led to whom grace and luster fail. He would do the same thing as Tire Rhetoric; j who while he gathers various flowers and elegances, a flowery speech indeed, texture soul beauty harmony; if it fails, he would arrange it. Hence the music is superior to judgment powerful, viz. , by the ingenious concatenation of the periods of a song or some kind of movement. adornent, florid artifical periods of fimplici to mix the clauses of the Counterpoint lent, and through them various intervals are repeated, and at last I make a canticle with its numbers T z mud PiousArc Musurgica: releruau They set up jute. We wanted to imitate them and the entire artist) reason in this pina- to show that it was expressed, that nothing should be done to our Musurgy in any way we seem to have been astonished. Rule I De Pleonasmus M usarithmico. Leonaphmus Mufarithmicus is nothing else than the multiplication of any Mufa- simple purpose of rhythm. But this multiplication is possible, just as above uasmuscon, which we have given in canon was instituted in two ways; First by Pleonasmus
iiunctuf d" a broken tiplication, fiue which is the same, disjointed, while that is to say a polysyllable alicu the right term known as a is divided into different intervals. According to Pleo the string is either a complete multiplication, or a combined one, while that is to say polysyllabic of a certain term known as a are established in the same interior, both We exhibited the columns, because they teach the inscriptions. With these purposes in mind, now the columns Let us interpret the mufarithms. The first column therefore has the Mufarithmos bistilla boron, which do not correspond in stiffness except to the two known pedometers, because Syn- A simple tag of the first counterpoint has been shown. But now as Rhetoric Musurgia a lover of variety, would have luxuriated in greater abundance, so we arranged this pine tree, vt co not only bisyllabic, trisyllabic, tetrasyllable or quatrofil- They would have answered in Jabisptocis, but each of them said every imaginable polysyllabic matter Can you guarantee that the first time? the column of Mufarithm is separated by Pleonasmus, fiue combined, And as many syllables as you wish in the end, let it be if they have the penultimate length, or if they are short, they can be adjusted. The same must be said is about Musarithmis III. IV. column? With a true paradigm, things became clearer give Let the Mufarithmus be bisyllabic here in the notes Example represented as it is clear j This Mufarithmus in rigor tan then he answers with bisyllabic words. But we assert here st- You will be able to do this in a double way when, that is to say, either number or mark, it goes
Clap Clap Applause Applause You see that in the second example you are shown the penultimate trisyllable of the word Plaudite himself by Mufanthmumy. i. if you double the first number of this Mufarithm in this agreement and then apply any pedometer marks corresponding to this foot. By this agreement you will strike all those metrometers, which in Pinace Il. Syntagmatis Primi at the end of the fertile column? are contained, to this trisyllable penultimate breue, pos they are Let Mufarithmus be proposed again to be applied to the penultimate long trisyllable, column notes? Metrometers kicked a column? fertile pines. L Syntag. I. presented, multiplied by the Musarithm i. applices, vt here teaches a third example. Pxem- Lib. Cheap ÌAfurgia Mirafica. An example III
The same Platonasmus under other names.
Xw ij- Not otherwise, if Mufarithmi proposed double the last note in this agreement. or then notes according to the amount of trisyllables shown a little before the method, Musanth- If you apply a little more, as is clear in this example, you will have another variation. Example IV. By Pleonasm combined.
Victor If, however, you wish to advance through Pleonasmus whole or combined, the whole Musa- trisyllabic rhythm you will double, thus the number of the first Mufarithm is likewise tripled it is said, in this agreement. ni, then with these numbers next to the trisyllables the quantity is known You will be able to attach the contents of the mentioned columns, as shown in the example it is clear htec repetition in all the rest of the words Muiarithms aquali numbers must be multiplied in proportion. vt is evident in the afltimpt Muiarithmo. Jtiplicatus i combined pleonasm
Disconnected or or iZymss Z P J J Vp J i t
You see, therefore, how the two-syllable Musarithmus gradually increases from the binary number both through disjointed and joined intervals; Where the fourth series is known by con the combined Pleonasm be again multiplied by twenty, of which we only take too much vtiin 5. 6. 7. series appears. But put the corresponding notes on each one mouse
Artis Conson, Disson. Example L ii. m, iv. force vm.
Applaud Victor ij. applaud him ij ij. ij. ij. ij. to the victor Do you see, then, even from a small sample, that our rhetoric is inexhaustible? Muffler? for many years
But they must not be the same in the base position, as the nymeri Musar goes to the mud in the reli who declares in three words. Quietinq; but he wishes more curiously to know, how often this Mufa- the bisyllabic rhythm is changed into a trisyllable, let him add the first part of this pro problem combines, where he will find surprising and totally paradoxical statements about Finally, what what is the only Mufarithm they were said on purpose, about the individuals in that column Musa bisyllabic rhythms are to be understood Example CI tporro Musarithmus trisyllabus from the second? column? O first series proposed fourth in fertile filter Na Musarithmus. Here I am answering the trisyllable Musarithmus in general, it is thus resolved into notes. Pleonastically, however, in the chemuis A polysyllable is solvable, either by means of combined characters, or by disconnected For example, if you would like to apply this quoted Mufarithm in four syllables, double it you will be able, either or z. or as is clear from the following example. Here you see the first duplicate in the fertile series, and the second in the third series, in which the third to form the pronunciation of tetraphylla; in the fifth true series pentasyl- the labus doubles the first and fruitful one, in the hectafyllabo it doubles each one, vt in seriously it is clear, in Vil. the series of pleonasms is presented in its entirety; while the trisyllable {Creator) in syn It is replicated by the known throats. Cheap indeed, the same disjunction is used, vt from the distinction pa tet, which mode is infinitely variable; for in this example the first note is the answer give the first in the simple Musarithnjo, but notre in the second division, give with him? note? Mu-
sarith Lib. VII M usurgia Miras e. 2St iarithmo simplicij quinq; notx in the third division, the third: the note of the simple Mufarithm is correspond, which mode is almost infinitely variable, as in the first part of this book we have shown the fuse, by placing these, you will form this rule. Rule Ato polysyllabo quouis, Musarithm quemuis trium nu- Simplex Musaritb- taken from the second column of this pinacus mouse trysy liabis to convert the given polysyllabic Musarithm; Let there be a period certain Enneafyllaba given, this is of syllables; for I have come again!
you express the redeemer of Faithful, Musàrithmoternario, or by con- combined or by separate pleonasm i if by first, each three IU- tripled numbers will give the result, as is clear here. Of these if any IV- cxferiebus of metrometer marks in the column Enneafyliabo- V. you apply the rum of the first or second Pinac, the first Syntagma, you will have any position. If by the second; you will work as in fil. IV. V. from the wicked it is clear Trisyllabum I Creator Come redeemer of the faithful EneasyUaba period I like Pleonasm
Pleonasmus difiunfto. V You see how the multiplication of simple Mufarithms in each polysyllable they postulate to be changed, and how it is noted: that these correspondents can be attached here and there in finite ways.
Proposition I cpaio Mufarithmifimflieiyif) any foly syllable fimftìcifìtte com posit9 a musarithm to a given polysyllable accom modare, vtsequitur
it is a simple Musarithmus of numbers vt follows and the theme of the polyllabu becomes syllables (Let us rejoice in the Lord) and anyone wants to compose the above given the theme in the second tone will be executed by a double method. First by Pleo the whole neck, or the intervals joined together. Secondly, or a broken Pleonasmus, or We will present a few of each separately. ArtisoPAagna Confini, Dijjom, and therefore try the matter first for any of them through the combined periods te vdluerit, the Phonotactic System first in four parts according to the fourfold number proposed by Musarithmi, then from the 4th column of the pinnace of this quemuis selects the Musarithm, we have assumed a ninth one that suits our purpose, vt here it is clear. Then applied the column of nails to the column, of the tones you have made, you will print the points Z in each pentagram of the voice so that each sword of the pentagram has one point.
as it follows When this is done, go down to the second strike column: of the third, until two. m ad the sign of the octosyllabic being assumed theme, peruelieris, receive there: V. g. penultimate note the series which you will apply to each and every one of the following four You see the words known as here done Tone
I. An example. By pleonasmus conjoined. .i' V rv X y. . rNl
nnmhbjrujm1: II. Exam Lib. Cheap Miraculous music. I I An example. By Pleonasmus difiunBum l iSS Let us rejoice in Dito In pleonasms of this kind, therefore, whether they are separated or joined, take them together series of notes, vt us here the last t î î rt? . When this had been done, the Mufarithms were reconciled you will print the corresponding points, and apply the marks assigned to each point, do you know these eight? let them all be placed in a chord, which occupies a point in each voice the points indicated, as is clear from the example; and the melothesia will come forth, or be joined to the vine. first, or through discrete intervals, as is evident in the second example. So you see the replication of the octosyllabic compound four times next to the numbers of Mufarith- What was done to me in the first example, to go on in the second, and to go by replication, at the very richest; For the first Mufarithmi notes answer. notes in D bass. On the second night of Mufarithmi's answer dent in G. The third ones correspond to the fan f. in C. three fans in F. as much as de nor do they correspond to the notes of the Mufarithm. But the last petiod bloomed from the filter na VL Syntagmatis We selected the Mufarithmosfloridos for the octofyllabic content to win a greater harmony with a song, which will always be done best, if Musa- the given rhythms are multiplied and then repeated in a florid and artful closing Let us insert the answer to the polyyllab, as we have already said.
References to Pinaces ArcMufurgicae. just for the reasons of the third syntagma artifical music, omitting here Ark: A muffler? we will reserve them; at this point only to put some notes It seems that those who had the Mufurgic Ark had some knowledge of these pinacs acquire
NOTE In the Pinace Pleonafticum.
It is clear, perhaps, that it was a match for the said fate, how by anaphora siue a repetition which we have placed among the musical tropes, some song we can organize; In fact, this is almost nothing more common in cantilena, almost as if it were vlla-s meet The Great Art of Conson, Disson meet, which; let it not overflow with repetitions of this kind, but not with any repetition are forced to repeat the entire context of the words of the Musician, we have seen the modisimaij. before ser rimin Pleonasmis integris notàrum jvbiin column third series this sign twice it is placed it is by Pleonasmosconiunctos, to signify the progressing marks the aggregate must be repeated twice; vbiverò ij. ij. ij it is placed three times, the notes preceding the notes aooreoatum three times where ij ij. ij. ij I would like you to understand that the sign must be repeated four times, to establish this repetition over the same chord, but over those chords which note? the numbers denote Musarithm, as was clear in the preceding example. Moreover, in the notes of the Pleonasm, you will see that they are interrupted in various ways, all of them, however, in so many how many Musarithms have numbers; e. g. in the 4th column of the pinac after the number that hepta- we say that the first ttt belongs to the first number of the Musarithm; but the fourth Î by hold on to the second; the fifth T to the third; Friday? to the fourth; Finally, the seventh to look at the last figure of Musarithmi. And on this account they are to be accepted differences For you will always find as many distinctions as the Mufarithm contains notes. and with the idea of discriminating between each individual ipacia? to be considered there are Musarithms to it to look at the note that the order indicates, so note that all the contents of the first space are counted there to look at the first note of the Musarithm, all in the second space content to themselves once; and so on from the rest. NOTE Of Pleonasmus 'used to Ecclefiafticus, whom the common people [false Bor
Donali] they call us the day we are answered. Xhis is very clear, how with almost no business False Bordones fieripostinexpediriaute the whole business will be able to Musarithmo velvni- co qqatuor or or any number of numbers. But there are false Bordons and nothing else latjsulL quXpiam of certain notes, of which the first note by a long or ma- ximim expressun. jreliquce vepd following into the final dausiilam. But it is The method of this type of chanting is most often used in the psalms, the verses of which have two members usually they are let them have the first part answers first? part of a verse of a psalm; according to the second give Sometimes there are false clauses with bordons: let them be bwiòvrfa, that is, in the same way ending; but the first is always assigned a different termination, and the second. But the thing let us teach by example.
Proposition II. Given Musarithmo quatuovnumerorum, fleonasnum vsta- then Eccleftaflicum 3sue [falso B òr dòn e] sue vt nos di I'm going to sit down it is given the theme (The Lord said to the Lord in my faith and at my right hand) above which I pray it is necessary to construct a visited site}
Let the Musarithm be each of the four numbers that follow ex ccolumns of this pinnace were brought down and reported to Basu; for the rest of the voice of Musa we omit the rhythms to cause brevity. If therefore you resolve the hofcc Musarithmosinnotas, so Lib. Mu fargia Mirafica iy$ vt the first of each Musarithm should be known as the Jonga, or the greatest, and the rest in the clauses let them go, you will have a certain position, as it appears in the following paradigm. An example of the pleonasm of Isobatus Ecclefiaflici. go: fti jj
The Lord said to me, "Sit at my right hand. "
Prepare the rest of the voices according to the Musarithmos, each of which is proper; therefore you see the artist what If you wish to expedite the business of the Pervinic Musarithm, then assume what you will The mularithmoeum is characterized by resolutely simple or flowery notes; When this was done, dad column of tone in one degree or or Musarithmos reflowe into notes; for wealth through the mixture of tones of this kind we plead, where, however, to know, in In this business, the Musarithm must be chosen, the two largest numbers of which have a base mere NOTE De yju pinacum Sjntagmatii L Arce Mujurgiae.
Ota all Musarithmos pinacum quorum- Musarithmussimplexheptasyllabus. in the Syntagma first placed, to this business of ours, or to the amplification of Musurgia? Rhetoric? to be able to serve; For I remember Pleonasm considered to be as united as to be separated in any given case they can be assigned to poly lyllab, v. g. following the closure la ex Musarithmis. pinacisheptasyllaboi u syntag. I. plucked out, to anyone who feels or can be adapted to the period in almost infinite ways, L Example by pleonasm coriiunft.
liiliiiSIllg Let's sing Mr a new song v" fS' i erriti lunOl Example IL I lost the unit. Let us sing to the Lord a new song For let the melothesia be completed on this theme [Let us sing to the Lord a new above the Musarithm extracted from the pinace of hcptasyllables; as the first example ries shows: you can put everything in the first note? it is clear NOTE tf6 Artis Magne Consoni, Diffont NOTE Pinacius II. in the Musiirgica Ark showing the Explanation e inax II contains flowery rhymes, and artful bisyllabic trisyllables, and of the four-syllables, as the front of each column shows. Note, however What if someone were to pick out from this pjnace various Mufarithms appropriated to the theme, he who judgmental, nor would he present it to the ears as particularly pleasing, unless someone vnÓMusarithmu vti in pro It was declared to those who were retreating, that he would lead by various mixtures of tones; for then it was bad nia would retain its vigor and beauty: therefore this pinax will serve above all with clauses artificiosis, floridis, by inserting a simple pleonastically deduced counterpoint, vti in pa It is clear from the first stage of the last stage of the proposition; Where the flowery clause pul- Chèclaudius Melothesia pleonastically derived from the only Musarithmus; they can
clause; to be interposed in the beginning, in the middle, or in the end, in this manner men caution, vt then base numbers? femper end. but in the beginning, in the middle, A sine, xeliqui numbers only apply to the beginning and the middle. NOTE V. Pinacius III. IV. V. presenting the practice in the Musiirgic Ark. Here are contained Musarithms of florid Ecclesiastical canticles, and motectic sty lo most proper); If, therefore, to whom it should be thought to present Melothesia by the pen of Eccles siastico, this is the pinnace most of all, it has two columns in front of this pinnace, in which and each of the Musarithms is presented with some correlating notes. It is dry. Proposition III Given any sacred theme of words, that fuse Melo- to order the thefia to the Ecclesiastical Jlylo conmnient. it is the subject of the words v. g. O Virgin, glorious above all, beautiful and adorning the will re harmonic modules; do so Select y. g. tone are selected from the second column of octosyllabes (for every member of the theme has so many lyllabas, of which penultimate long) Musarithmi anyone, who then by application co- the columns of the keys to the column of a given tone, into modules with the help of the photo system The non-tacticians will be animated by exactly the reason by which it has been done up until now. (For in the way of working there is absolutely no difference from the simple sita met) and the following harmony will appear in the Ecclesiastical style data I will be moved by the study you will take care of. You apply mufarithms, and none of them, which; meet, ie there are points no tis aExa, tail; omit the fusillade and the femifufare, which is still music; they are said to be practically unskilled.
Exam Lib. V IIL ÌAfurgia Mirafica:
An example of the Ecclesiastical style. Above all, beautiful ij- Let us see by this example the manner of proceeding in another jsjNote, indeed, what if I put a period one and the other of the simple counterpoints Mufarithmos appropriated from the pinacs (v. g. from Pinace V. according to the theme of the words assumed octosyllabic prompts) different? a mixture of tones: you will insert, not only a smoother harmony, fed more productive-, you will pay: v. g. hxc clause from Pinace octosyllabic. Con a simple rapunct is taken down inserted between the first and the third period will give a more favorable harmony, especially if the clause was the clause of another before the to nor, vti us here from tone III. in XI. we deflect, we put but here only the base clause, because of one thing, of other voices in the Mufarithms must also be understood. And from this unique example it is clear how in the rest to proceed, for this method is suitable for the infinite variations which we still ask for They will take things more easily than I can express in many words. NOTE ifS lArtis Wiagnte Boundary. Discord note v i Pinacius VIL Vili. Mufmthmos fugarum con holding, presenting the practice ic pinax contains the artifices of flight to whomsoever the mind may be singularly directed quente to complete a certain Melothesia, he from this pinace Muiarithmos to himself he will be able to ask, Let us declare the truth with a single paradigm. Proposition IV. Given the theme of the words of any Melothesmm ar to complete artificial flight textures. it is the theme of the words given: Praise the Lord, all nations, and tone Prepare according to the phonotactic system, applied to the columns in turn from this Pinace Mu- sarittimos excerpts meeting the words; v. g. for Laudate excerpts from the Musarithm in first cell first? column for musarithmiiprima? cell according to co lumna? , which if according to the aforesaid rules canonefquein notes were added to each and every one resolved in truth, the following fugitive melothesia will come out, if one wants to close it artificially at the end let all the nations receive them from Pinace II. of this part, from the tetrasyllable column, however as it follows AIelothefidfugata tono VHLideRfuga Jnvrivocfiue ascending through fertile You see in this example a particular grace in the process of flight, if therefore the song of ali which you wish to start with a flight, the pinax, which is present here, will supply you with whatever is around
you want gas: v. g. if you were ordered to arrange a flight with the diatessaron, that is, through the fourth rising, the column of flights will give you the desired diatessaron. For Mu- impromptu from iarithmusinde, adapted to the selected tone will give flight in hyperdia- fabric testaron: Thus flights in hyperdiapentesiueper ascent to the fifth; This is their agreement hypcrdiapason, diatonamquevti hecprxsens is, you will hunt Columncmrahuiuspi- naci will show the process of flight through the international lines cleaving, oc fi indeedfuga let them descend rune goat [HypoJ is expressed, tahs hypodia- It is a pa on fugue that descends a perfect octave, either compound or uncompounded. But the flight ascended, then it is expressed by the particle [hyper J, vt hypcrdiapason-, the flight is through the octave, either compound or uncompounded. A true column He explains the whole matter clearly. But the work of each individual is immense let it grow, we have decided to let it go. NOTE II Pinacs Vili. X. The polyphonic voices of Mufà- presenting the practice of containing rhythms. Inax Vili it contains Polyphony, that is to say, not only four, but more rium, and how many melothefies of words one postulates to finish; it is ours, and has been washed away from the little numbers, and lest the musicians should oppose us, qui to compose the quatrains, that is, to touch the glass with the least pestilence; It is for this reason We have ordered the pinac of the Polyphonies, vt not only but f voice Who wants to compose a song, even music? completely ignorant, and exactly the same with the ability to compose a quatrain, if anyone had the heart to compose it I speak canticle, he selects Musarithms appropriated to him from the column of pentaphonies he will be able to animate the corresponding characters, and the quest will be obtained. So if the same He will find the rhythms he has plucked from the column of heptaphonios and hecaphonios tata sunt Omitting that voice here and there, they compose cantilevers for eight voices let us turn the pen. For there is nothing else than a replica of what- I will give a quatrain, divided into two choruses, thus the voice nothing else, but qua- dricinmm triplicated, divided into three choruses, as the preceding books on the Musical Knot we demonstrated. He who has well understood the method of proceeding in eight words, he will not be able to ignore others, for the procedure is exactly the same in all, but Let's explain the matter with a winning paradigm. Proposition V. Given the theme of the words, oBofonam Let's proceed further: NotaPrimo. We are in this pinace of many words Mlarithmos to give birth to simple counterpoints, partly composed of the site of Florida this one Let no one be persuaded, vt the whole canticle is continually continued by the personification of eight voices. away, it would be nor is this disagreeable to the ears; But to look at this artifice, see two choirs, in which there are four we distribute the voices artfully, and alternate choruses follow each other for a little while have followed, and then for the reason of the words all eight are consonant that or im, it may be done at the beginning or in the middle; but at the end all must always be in harmony, and that We have said about eight voices, den. must also be understood. Second note: If you divide the choruses, the same is the quatrain after the effe, or Contra- of the simple point or of the Florid, and therefore all that have hitherto been proposed to this poly- phon$ Meiothcsix to serve later. Musarithmi, however, arranged in this present pinace, ta- then Ltb. VllI. Miraculous music. jfp to coitflruere melotheft. The great art of Canfani, Disson and so on, when we wish to compose 8th or or voices together. True the paradigm will easily show the reason for everything. If any one, therefore, upon this subject, all the nations, applaud the mambus, Melothesia octopho- for he wanted to be ready; it first doubles the phonotactic system, that is, first 4. C0- set up the pentagram, this eight is the sign of the characters and the keys, not, which was done in the following paradigm.
Let us conspire for brevity, here only the two Bassos of the first and fruitful Choir, We have already repeated it, for the rest of the voices follow it in the same tenor in Balinj above which they were built. Therefore the same pauses, the same time of prayer, Chorus in all things, QBophontumsue OcUcinium
i J "Jl' I Chorus All the peoples clap their hands aq. p 85f: e: r: S: z: žz
clap your hands Having done this, he selects the Mularithms of the numbers of words, for the tetrasyllable All then Musarithmos hexasyllables instead of clapping your hands, like a barren column it is clear; This Musarithm, asks v-g. we thus diiposuimus the duplicate, vt vltima let the note of the first always correspond, the first of the second Musa- laugh, and let them be of the same key, as you see here.
And so in the first Chorus after the pillar of the pillars; tone II than for We have selected the form of the Cantus, applied it, and imprefficque points in fpacijs a Musarithmis in of the pointed pillars, then in the Staff of the fertile Choir, you will impress the same points, so, however, while the Basis of the first Choir is running, the voice of the Second Choir is the Basis for the time, As the value of the notes increases, it pauses in quantity, as in this example, the semi-short pauses is, vt shows the pause of the second space of the lower base; take another Musarithm, viz. i shear
work as before, you will have another clause replicated in two choruses; finally You can see that Mu far i t h m o octophone is singing a song. I order the true Musarithmos we propose here.
You see I. Choir A
You see that in this paradigm, the Mufarithm is adapted to the first word Tetrasyllable Omnigentes; instead of traudite hands fertile Mufarithm à for the first Chorus, to whom the fruitful Mufarithmus is the same as the former, exactly as lends itself, as soon as not X femper answer the first of the following Mufarithm, and of this. vltima the first of the following, vtpatet; In the end, at last, they all agreed nant As in the present Mufarithmic Schematism, both above from the two-run process. Baffrum is to be seen; The true example is so clear that I will not go into further explanation let him go; There remains nothing, therefore, for us to lay down some rules in this place, that is, in composition let his bus proceed more safely to Tyre. .. cVwbb v
Lik FU7. Miraculous music.
The rule to be laid down in Polyphon. The Riuiar Phólyphonij total Mufarithm are selected from the appropriated columns partial, indeed, either from the appropriated columns of this pinnace, or from the pre- but with caution, as the numbers of the first two bases of the Mufarithms, and the strongest femper be ijdetn For example, if the last number of the base Mufarithm of the first chorus was the mere base of Mufarithm should be equal to the fertile Chorus or If the last of the first Chorus the number of Mufarithm was In the pentagram indeed, the basis of the first chorus, the notes to which the Mufarifhmi correspond, must be arranged in this way, viz what? not the first note of the first clause of the following in the base of the pentagram of the second choice it is precisely submitted to the same conclusion, as is clear here, Monday Example of Ottophonius playing for two Chorus. my
Partial g. Partial Partial
zzi Total You see in this appropriate paradigm the last note csahfulxprimas of the first chorus to be threatened in G, in which the first note of the first note begins, and the second chorus's base clauses end in here lock yourself in B, and in the same place begin the safe passage of the first chorus, vtriufquebasis clause totally disguised; where you also see that, while the clause the first personage of the first chorus, they put so many pauses in the correpondent fpacio fecundichorum there, how many notes are contained in that space, including the times, of each kind in the first place We have set the basis of the fecund chorus the first clauses of the fecund chorus I. Chorus Il. Chor. ri will necessarily agree with the last of the former, as has been said; but the first three bases of the chorus rests at times) resonating the base of the first chorus, the base of the fruitful chorus of three simil
It rests three times, after which the last clause is sung by the tpoQuvas. II. In total two Musarithms? bases should be placed like this uainvnifonu, and be carried against, as the last clause shows, nor in tere st, if two octaves immediately follow i for that is permissible in this case, book It has been shown previously. III. If any of the pi born either of simple Counterpoint, or of compound Musarithmos ta The lessons will be selected, and he will resolve them with the itainphonotactic system, the last number of the first my Musarithmi with the first number of fruitful Mufarithmi be one and the same, they will be and note ijs imposed in consequence on vnisone; for these Musarithms are repeated in alternating choruses they will give the perfect For in these two Musarithms, having been changed in various ways, already by our mixture, already by the change of characters, now, finally, by the clauses of both You will be able to produce even the longest song by deducting the base pleonastically. IV. In polyphonous Melothesia to be established, exactly the same rule and canons They are those which we have prescribed at the beginning of this part. V. The sign of the pentagrams in the first Chorus is the same as the sign of the pentagram of grammes in the fertile Chorus. There is nothing else than a replicated quatrain; If, however, one wishes to establish one Choir higher than the other, this shall be free to all. For then the two Choirs are to be signed, vt in the face of the Arco Musarithmi following, I describe we are
We must also observe in the Musarithmis polyphonies the number I. in the base re bring the octave below, and the eighth above, all of which must be carefully noted. VII. One Musarithmus can be served by pleonasms with any number of polysyllables test For example, let's take as an example the clause of the progressive paradigm: All nations this clause can be adapted to all polysyllables by pleonasm. If the first And you will distribute the second into the smallest velfeminimas, and you will have changed the last two every genus jspolysyllabapenultimaìonga. But if you change the penultimate semi-short laugh at these notes? T, the remaining verqpreceding prQ occur in the number of syllables of the period rent, you will divide, you will have pplysyUabapenultimate breuia of all kinds. True mind you will see ours in the following example. Arùs (gbidentf Confinius Disson Picked up Those Penultimate long t-i s fl tL uZ ifhdui VIII N
All the nations concelebrate Hail to the star of the sea ò three or four times; happy subject. 7 The penultimate short story VII You will celebrate together
mlutu i rniînoa moqrata ailntirlaiqmo pae.
with Lih, Vili. Musurgìa Mirafica. The rest x vm
Aue Re ori na ex lorum Î. TP T Cheap This Confessor of the Holy House. lar
Hear the voices of suppliants. Here is what you read and what you set. Conse Barium
In this example it is very clear how even the single Mufarithmuspleonasticè om with these polysyllables it can be adapted, even to those unacquainted with music; whereas the value he knew the characters perfectly. It is also clear from this single example how all Mufarithms of simple counterpoint, or metrical, in any case; I fold the periods of the words they can be brought to nastic. VIII. The mufarithms of Florid's counterpoint are not unlike any polysyllables they can be adapted twice. For if one wants to refer to the penultimate polysyllable of the short; penultimate but the clause known to every one; it is to be divided into two such divisions. In the rest, however, the notes You will be able to arrange for various fy-llabamm quantities; in the meantime carefully offer wanando, lest in the syncopated Iigatif the others are noted. If, however, the penultimate short and I would have the quest
In the Mufarithms, however, arranged alternately by Choros, exactly the same thing must be observed is that in VII. We have proscribed the rule. For any polysyllabic pleonastic they will be able to but with this precaution, that which we have prescribed in the first rule, they love You will also observe three times.
X. In iz or voices, or what is the same, in or Chorus, proceed thus; in with the voices of Choirs, a Mufarithmus can be repeated three times; vt in the example for
position is clear; vbiclaufula (Clap your hands) in fecund Chorus repeated eight times cinium, if the same in the palimpsest of pentagrams, or choruses, it would be wasted if you had clauses per act; but if you follow the example, it will teach you everything; in quoBassos we put only Choirs
legal Ît i. ssid: r Ex Artis Confini, Dijson there, the arrangement of the voices of the Chorus]
Jt-wrT. rrw—; rer rrr iflMBMMMMl
"U tU Ol" fi c 'Jum iioq iv ilv C hór, III
Plaudits bus Chor. IV
Clap your hands. From these, if I am not mistaken, the reason for the formation of the Choirs is clearer in the noonday light y. â
A V CTA Lib. Cheap tiMusurgÌA Wonderful. t6f C A P V T I X On the Secret of the Harmonic Canon of the Mufarithms with the help of performance PARADOXVII I. Vbiunga to these another secret of these Mufarithms; that although his con it becomes a domain, even though it is exceptional, and should not be kept secret from the vulgar; not yet if it should be seen that he was envious of the public good, let that shekel and all the rest be brought to light; give but the goodness of the day is found more abundantly in other things. But it is of this kind. You have seen so far how from the various Musarithmic Columns metathest, by transposition innumerable species of various harmonies are born; just show I will give, in such a way that even in one Musarithmic quaternary, that is, in each of the Musarithms, (of which each contains ten columns) divided into four voices, the same reason is contained, and thus the Musarithmus of each in which column, which first places the linear am- he had lived, I do not know what circulation, and he wandered in infinity; We know how much with sweat how intensely the Musicians toil heretofore, as they sing in the Harmonic Canons Tired of getting dressed? He is more talented than the rest of the Mufurgis. with all the labor lifted by this ninth art of ours There is nothing easier for us than to dress the Canons of this kind, so that even the single Musa the rhythm to cover a whole hymn, or another or even a very long Canticle—, it may be sufficient, but you will be employed in this way. The four numbers of Mufarithm are extended in Continuum, or nineteen lines, starting from the pentagram of the pentagram at the base, and you will have it done. You have given a true example or a final example to conceive the secret let it suffice itself. Let there therefore be four vinius Musarith that you will strike me, which I will arrange in the you would like the following
Arrange these four fervessi in one line in order, from Base inci- when I walk, you will have the Canon arranged, as follows
These numbers, if you resolve them into notes of one voice and four, are of any, you shall have the following Canon; an eye without end singable with the best most beautiful harmony. Wow
jljj——I— Anemaris star God's mother alma atq, Virgin, happy gate of Heaven. The second voice begins the poltprima after the pauses of six times; But the third the same amount; The fourth Canon begins after the third with as many pauses; It will be sung here the have progressed a certain way, ad infinitum; the same about any ah, s Mu It can be said of the imaginable rhythms contained in the tables; so much so that the members of the Mufarithm they may be exchanged at will. Nibii I say more, you have revealed a secret: see or from this or the only specimen of Musurgus the skilful, how not so much as the Canons four words, but j. S. g. o. a. And as many as they will may order the word, which: I do not know whether any mean musician has ever come to mind. And these are, which: Mu- I have brought to share with you, a wonderful secret, so huge in the whole negouohar- He was great chalk in1 Music. if becomes the land of Conson and Disson important warning So that even from here the vastness of these Musarithms may appear. quomodòvelvnkusfimplidscontrapunar rnquo known to us
it is simply arranged for the purpose of any fugitive artist, yet each fugitive from perp he really likes; which is a paradox of merit, and perms of music possible, unless the truth clearly demonstrated the truth. P Notafecundò With each MufarithmHn arranged in the preceding tables, Cano- nis capable of forming a theft from this themselves) innumerable and inexhaustible Canons I will give birth to a multitude, all of whom are not twisted, that is, in the fullness of others, that is the most important of these the nuns hit the ears of the audience. Paradox II.
Voiibct in an excellent musical style, and to compose exactly, you grant to a few musicians I am certain that this has been granted to a few by the grace of God, for in whatever capacity We see that you are excellent poets who excel in lyrical or heroic works; Math matics in this veiled part of the mathesians} Physicians in the care of this or that limb; vtau let them possess the intimate knowledge of the individual parts of any faculty, to a few, as I said, it was granted. There are musicians who tan in the motetic Ecclesiastical style those in the Madrigal are also of interest; there are those in Choraico and Orchematicus, no In short, those who are able to use only a recitative style will get used to it we teach art as well as a completely admirable artifice, and a catholic end of universal where does the music come from? unskilled, to complete his melothcs in any imaginable style can True, at the request of the Prince himself, and also of their I purposely led the distinguished secret to be shrouded in silence; nor that I do not fear anyone so much he was in high price among the highest men of any kind, and would be cheap given the right of the public; let it suffice that he had communicated this to the noble princes by word of mouth or in writing. A total artist It is different from those who proceed, and it requires a perceptive talent to work well. Ve nor can anyone say that I can boast more than I can prove, here is a sample instead it seemed to me to add an ingenious composition, which he accomplished with the help of my art. The Most Illustrious, Remembering Lord Bernardinus Roccius S. D. N. Innocenti) X. Referendary of the Pontifical Maximus of sharp wit and distinguished probity, who although he was unacquainted with practical music, yet he composed them with the knowledge of our master. c. pF. s; men nes, by which they can be compared in merit with the works of the highest masters. Cumfmo- m dot hetix di among others that is-, which we add below, in which there are no styles, no graces, and he would omit the musical delights; usMufarith- a position in which the recitative style responds beautifully to the emotions. micx pera- then dyphonia amoenistima, later triphoniajinterniixtis femper hyporchematicis in the style of symphonies, and finally a harmony of voices, four cantos, and two bars established tone; the harmony of the whole was woven together as a kind of complement, in which He omitted nothing that could be missed in the most polished melothesia; and in public Eminentissiîhcrum Cardinalium Conuéhtu, and various in Ecclesijssummao mnium with astonishment, and with that applause, which he seemed to demand as his right, to be sung not once did he care. And no one could be impaled with a mallet, either mine or anyone else's that the work of another Composer had been accomplished, hence it was thought that he was an eye-witness to this fly Ginus Angelus Capponia Equitus Musicoperitistmum, works, which He published the best gift, which was composed by him, and soon after it was composed by him, he approved and he drank Where all things are to be approached here, it is very important to tell you about some of the evils in to be broken A veritable reader, from Melothcsia's own inipectation, better than I or I will not explain in many words, what he has fornicated, he will find out. mie# Dialogue at the end of the 6th Melothefia SS, D. N. Referendario, with the help of the new Art Mufàritmica completed. Symphony à z. or the preamble.
Baffo alone. Vi di Angelum, il I will go up! the matter
from the rise of this issue having the sign ij. God's power
Sfcianami with a great voice ij.
ij. An- freeze. to whom it was given no wax to whom
On the high ground. Don't do no harm to the third party
pretend mm ew etc. Phil. Musar is already wonderful i jq Artis oTMnte Confini, Dissoni iEESx MUtzNM v ni uerso paudoin V ni uer so mundo ij
I sing, First solo. fcfca
ue iu bi la te exulta te jubi late e xulta te exult ta te Iubi la te exult ta te co rejoicing Ange li ubi la te exult te Uh. Cheap Mujùrgia Mirìfica ca- fcj ni te, tajtaji- i,
I am ij to our God of glory.
rf? Canto Secondò solo. fln mov -Ln-I-oJp. AnAaAf
it annar? ohsqjturódndhagi rMà jjh r. -rnar
those voices il-lîvòcesi il li cantus il II Lib. Mitjurgi&Mirifica so we don't Cy- us Cytha film Symphony à rp sCantueBafTo, drtij GDijsom To sing Dialogi Šympfaonisrflus Canti, Alto, e Baffo Salvation to our God Cant. Il Salvation to God Cant. HI, Salvation to God no Salvation to God our lady
i-ll High Ba ryton Salvation to God no ftro Salvation to God no ftro Sal-sProlbo f c.
-U-Il -rf Lik IL Miraculous Musurgia. Remainder of the Dialogue à zz; eF2
Mr tori ij. wow! niuer sx ter xx
Mrs. Tori ij. V ni uerfa ter xx
ZIIZIÌISZ? dEîzrzîzzz: zi! z
Lady to ri ij. Artis Magna Finini, Dijfon Remainder of the Dialogue at
i! EEi"p. 5E5pp He was born at home on the fifth floor of the earth Blessed are you
He was born in the house of ri Vniuerfae three times Blessed are you
tfc: to ri ij. tiETZ -XF Lib. MujurgU Mirifica.
the honor of the Empire honor command And I am not a man of glory And I am not the glory of his man And we built a special Ark of Musurgiea, several from it; as in Let us describe the various styles in which we describe the kinds of styles with that artifice they will be, as if he wants to compose in whatever style he has, whatever he wants He fulfills his task in a recitative style, in which he contains the first verse there are combinations, so adapted to words, vt. that he may pursue comic or tragic matters; And from this pocket he proceeded it contains a perfect account of the style of the Ecclesiasticus, so that even the Musician is ignorant of it To perform the ecclesiastical hymns with energy; It contains a third pocket com Dissoni Remainder of the Dialogue à 6. a rj Ì iKn: i som. L 1Cv. mouth "edited"
mi on I'm sorry And of the kingdom ÌEFFFF since God is great; since God is great no
the combinations of fugitives, the fertility of all degrees continued, etc he wants to begin his flight to the fertile intemalum, which we call a diaton, he has what this is through the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and eighth, according to the artifice of the Masters arv established with the knowledge of your experts, he will complete with the greatest ease, the fourth stipend of the content net combinations suitable for choral style; for example, if one sings symphonies with the instruments alone he wants to arrange the bandages; he has, by which this can be easily expedient; and such is the symphony of the cell a fitting bus, which the Composer of this Dialogue prefigured as a kind of prelude the front of this dialogue; The fifth pocket of Arc$ MusurgicjE, contains of many there will be no end to it It will not be sooner. will not be the end It will not be sooner. there will be no end
combinations of many words, fiuepolyphonies; vtficui three, four, five that he likes to compose seven or eight word combinations, he has no problem with that expedient; but we continued with compositions of this kind, and to voices; come to choirs to be ritely instituted. This artifice, therefore, could have produced more a mouse; but since the compositions rarely exceed choruses, fiue voices, fuperuacaneum I also thought that I would waste time in composing them, and in putting them into tables. But let's set some rules for a better way of doing fine business. Rule In each of the columns on one side are placed the corresponding to the numbers which, with the greatest caution, superimposed on the points printed in the pentagrams; But not Tyro Z ignorant So Artis Confini, Dijsoni The rest of the dialogue rjc of the rainbow and of the kingdom
àtzjMàiich and of his kingdom iiitif ziîz and of his kingdom there will be no end to his kingdom E3'Jî- it will not be
Ignorance of music commits the error of adding words if indeed it is not known to everyone They are attached to the syllables of the words, which only have a simple counterpoint; fedina-, iyllabasubindè continued through various flow of notes, viz. in counterpoint Florido pas Yes, finally, after some measures of time, he moved to the second syllable You see the manner in which this composition is recited in various places; From here it is called Tyro it would be safer to proceed in slippery business; points for each character that pronounces the syllable turjlubiecatareperiesivbiverò the continuous flow of notes corresponds to one syllable, ibidupta ommmus; with which we wanted to indicate the last discontinuous muone must be continued, until the second point, to which the word sylla follows bam Lih. FllL Miraculous if The rest of the dialogue it will not be e rit end it will not be there will be no end no, there will be no end barns If you carefully observe this, you will not be able to arrange it in the context of the words know that you have committed a significant error. Rule II A singular energy must also be used in the tones of the lightning; Exem. gr. In the recitative style, no one knows how to care for this one, to express more affection through words if, correspond to the concurring tones clauses; therefore the affections of the woods are intended he wants to express he will carefully state what emotion the words express; then meet He will apply no tone to him, because in the proceedings every one of them will be true to the tone if the mixture is unsuitable, he will carefully look at the footing of the columns, which one; Tone let him suffer the mixture; For not all the tones were adapted to the mixing of tones i Šji The rest of the Dialogiàd. it will not be it will not be if you it will not be ij. ij. if noneric ij. ij. fi- none
ij. ij. if it will not be ij. ij. you are The soft tones marked with cyan, with the hard tones, are to be avoided by all means; except The artist knows how to mix them with great dexterity on certain occasions. And this is done to me the stura of the Tones in this industry by pressing it presents a fit, it must be applied, and when this is done, vt. it is necessary to proceed, and you will have what you are looking for gnum are indicated by marking Z. vti b soft. For when these are great in affections ex they should be taken into consideration; and that care, which, as if it were his right, he should place lant, you will use That the progenitor of Tire may know, with what affections, what kind of clauses he closed; We have always placed the letters in the columns of the Mufariths to express the said feelings; so li3 Remainder of the Dialogue à 6. .èctgoisiCTmuuhihJÎ It will be it will not be fi nis zìn n so A. amoris, G. gaudi], D. they express feelings of pain, T. sad? , I. indignation. Rule HI In the polyphonies, Musurgus takes careful care to distinguish the words in pa limpsesto St sipolyphoniara composition octó verb. gr. aut vocum volificere veliti The dances in the palimpsest should be carefully distinguished by opportune pauses put
Rule IV In the fugitives, let him pay attention to this as well, that is, in the palimpsest, in order according to the seats should be presented beautifully; lest he incur confusion in a sudden distinction. But the appearance of the fugues, if they are suitable to the set, will show the front of the columns beautifully.
Nine typ. 'mmiLva snow
piano C i j I there will be no end. The Reader, however, informs us, that this secret should not be divulged to anyone, In this book I consulted the princes of the sun and well-earned friends saved Now, with these propofitisj, we proceed to our melothetic mechanics let's talk
read: ii ii j. ij vOH V. Siiiftib winilnrniit n: a,
rrry rr nnn fin LSLirmjV Torri. a. jol. S i tonine t Sexsyltaba I UutfUia vi irm vi "Vm I undressed S honaa Dodeccuyliaba Penhrevia Ittmbua ueaiyil-pen Brcu ia Tonv. vs. vsi. ytn. xi. zii. WftmTimwrrrmmrmTTpjmttirfl QuaJrisyll BipyUdHVšMvtatta pen-Longa TenUsyll piuLmja prn Litigai Vatlylicaprn Brr vi. Vili. Xt. Xll Adonia peaioBoâI vi. vm. xi. xii. Jane came n, , tv. jit j pen-Longa Ton. S. Ji. JU. JV. tx. x licked Anhtlsthui DttaryU-pm-Bréoìd I jcu Jdmfoid nearilpen I am a Brima. Tango was broken by force uatiyhtapinhfi Osi pcn. LopgA Iffyffro TrttliloH p fnaanja î2mmîfinmp3 crntitT 7haleucia pen. J. onga Endéccuyll -pen-Lango. yži-n V imi Asclepiadcea pen. Ertiti a Ton. y. vi. VJi. VlU. XJ. nl. DecaJyll. peri- Ere u. Iambic ottasvì ijtyMtoU prn litigation [They change Toni Jarnbua ódajylt- VJ. VII1XIXII. B pi'rt nâcca. jyll. penLoni Pine tree
penlsnga ProSapphuu Adonta Vaitftua penarti Asclepudaa pen LreuUL toji. v. vi. vn vin. ji. xii. Tony. vi. vn. vm. xi. Musarithmi Poh Ton. J. u. m. iv. JÌ Iambic Eunpedcta phthylo fiorai do omntbwtonis accomodati inai reon tic a J trio fio rìdo Adorna, and Vaitylica. Jbn. v. vi. vri. viir. il. XII. J-nncasyllaba et Hecasyll- pcn. l4n. oa. r. Tf in. V Phaleucia. and Sapphica Tom j. Js. JTI. iv. Iambic Archilus theca. Tom v. vi. vil. vm. Xl. Xli. nacreontua KneasyUaba èrDe carpii Toni I. Ji. Ju. rv. JX. X. .Fha l cucia, and Sapphica Tom I. "Jl. JJL. JV. ontnibusm federation Jtylo jlorr- mix accommodated rhombic J ambii a Evripeelaa I become Jtylo Archilochica E Anacreontica Jtylo florida Phaleuda and Sapphica. Mujarithmi Poh 7bn-J. Jl. JU. lv. Ji Ornamental and decorative Ton. v. vj. vu. .Jm jSnneasyiîabA. and pen-Longa. Tslin1 r. rr iv go iambic Sapphic accommodated I give to everyone So many j. jj jn. iv. jx. x Toni s. st. ia. jv Musarithmi Poli Ton. i. itJJi-rtJi both. SMTipeâtra. With the pen of a flower. ' give accomodan Adonta and JoactyluA Iambic Archijachica Enneajyllabd and Dccasyll Anacreontica florido hauled and Saj Toni Ì JS JU Ji Musarithmi floridi Sap. phuif Phaleuciis Vna Cititi Anacreontius accomodale 'fntatyÌJabtf using twice W Musan thnu slon. ii austriryllabtS Pius yhaleuctjx and n ten 'at-iihtni fio rìdi'pentaryria, accommodated 'eonneir
giifttriryllabtt yen. For a long time a reaccommodated view licius, from the eco mo dati Phot farthmì floridi pr TaaWin to use Uatrijyilabu Musarithmi. nAaJeantxcii 'ujarithmijloridt ptyitaryltmbix accommodated iainsetfndecasylia tdt Sapphuiiacconto dati Thaleuctjs Anaclfonetcìs you flowery Sapphicis Phaltucii Vn a cum Anacreontitus is given by econo nor I Il. tsr ir- X SCALE MVSIC A A soft song A hard metabolic song A soft metabolic song A hard song High Metabolic Hard High Metabolic Soft A Itus hard High and soft Hard metabolic rate Soft metabolic rate Viaulus of the Ancients Tenor hard fYU htbdA string Hard Metabolic Bass, Soft Metabolic Bass Soft bass Cnaracterifmus Vocum, accidental Vòcum me- Characterifmus Vòcum me natural table
tabolicus accidentalis Cnaracterifmus Vocum natural ARCA MV5VRGICA N O V VM l N" VE N T VM Rutrum Ajfptwrun trace iQTum Syriiuja. tanor PUctrum Lyra alia fi Vacorum. Instruments. Tnusica. from the Romans, from ancient monuments lyra yintachorda erum
Lib. Vili, Mujurgia Mirifica. wonderful mvsvrgia PART of M V S V R. G IA MECHANICS v SIVE On the various mobile Mularithmic column rum Metathesis or transposition. UH i i n ui5
V S V R G I A mechanic is nothing else than a certain certain that which we invent, with which we also apung various instruments Melothetic application catilenasiuxta petitionum atichcium com ponere possit. What a mechanical work to be done let us give it as briefly as possible, and not to waste time in prose Arcx MufarithmiciE will be ordered, XI (i J -no G A P V T I Fabrication of Musa Castle r i t h mie a? i de-1 conis. X l V. hit this book We call the Mufarithmic area the receptacle of the Mufarithmic columns; But we call the Musarithmic columns à Mufarithmis pinacus in wood or written on paper sticks; j Therefore you will prepare the ark with this energy. Fiat re a certain receptacle, the length of which is equal to the height, namely a span. let it be whole, and let the width be half a part, this width again in- You will distinguish three other particular receivers from other assertions. Sit Arca longitudo in cit: Iconismo AD vnius palmi'i to which corresponds the height AI or D V. the width is true AB or D Ci palm: but empty within A3 DC again in GE assertions will be discriminated after passing through the middle. Porrò primum receptacu lum H B. F C again in parts xqualesasserculi through the middle of the hollow After the fim has been completed, they show that the cells marked with their numbers are to be given. Himself when the receptacle G HE Fin receptacles" I will pass through the middle having been completed, as the figure teaches, it is divided. But AG DE receptacle into as many parts or receptacles, as shown by the figure of Ism prefixed to this book, divided on the face of the Ark you will describe a phonotactic system with a tonographic table, in the order in which we have given at the beginning of this part, and here it appears on the other side D C you will make sure to make other envelopes, v, t LM points out, in these columns rithinicas-juxta ordinemtin mense Tonographica descriptum you lcon. docet. . mujr n abnui Sfilo! -Ic fiuoiraxnoBM Ci: ;
vj j Jr i. stniVv
Of the Mufarithmic columellis, and their reception the arrangement of the box prepared for the sticks. Rimò take all the pinacs in order of the simple counterpoint number il. horum pi with the help of the individual columns féorfim in paper or even wooden virghJZliquo- tipe Wagn# Consoni n Dissoni you can describe four, five, six, seven, eight, nines, ten times and we how many times have we described the individual columns of V. g. Synragma i. duodecim tan- he has many virtues, of which any one; continet columnas decem; the first pinax contained net penultimate polysyllable long, second penultimate polysyllable bnuia, vnamquâ- o dnato queirntur the coluitina of these pinacs, several times you describe one with the marks of metrome- Tabuiarnm tris mcalce column? annexis; and yet what is all the column? let them have the highest quality in the box of mu-division, that is the cell? in which the Mufarithi' are to be deseribend, let them all be aquatic. surgicaj. They would be unequal, the application of the columns is not made of mistakes let charity, and this equality not only be the pillars of the first Syntagma, but in the columns of the second Syntagma, and in the third, the word in all the columns obseriiihdâ test vKùit is true that they have a tiiiuerfotum pinacum columnintequakm cellu some have transversal series, some have only viz tificium euadat more orderly, Miifurgo suaserim, viz. each column into ten cells and then in the empty spaces, Musa. any items in the same column
lentUTVellUlatXim'tiUto11 m, and artifice more absolutely than all numbers; for- iy: and from thicker paper or wooden filter, and written in the same Mufa- nin Wfe in the order in which it is dictated, insert each one into its particular receptacles. v. g. in the first cell of the dodecahedron AC which is separated into simple cells) in this, I say, the first cell of the wood the bacilli or taxilli, or the papery columns of the pinnace, are placed first; in the second cell the second pinnace column. In the third column of the third pinnace, several times multiplied; in and the fourth cell of the column of pinacus IV. multiplied several times; so of the rest of the order not even to the last pillar of the pine tree. But by striking the sword of Hectamorio or the scxtu-parted CHEF, you will set the columns in order Syntagmata fedu con trapùcti floweri poetica on paper or wooden sticks sometimes described: And indeed the first cell will serve Adonijs, dactylics; Second Iambic -injHectamoridvterò the third Ark? in a similar space to the fextipartito Syntagmatis m. everyone ordinfiiteoiumnasinferes; ; Enter, the lid that closes the ark and the filter the nose of the Musarjthmicas most described, with a column of di mere epithoraica. store, attach a special cover to each Vero receptacle, in the outermost part of which finish, the title of the columns hidden there is written, the opposite of which a little later in will notice HabcbifqueAtcam absolute on all shoulders; the road follows.
Of the vfu of the Arce Muffurgicae.
, Composityrus, therefore, to whom Cankje-nam should be; Don't let the ark be too high for everyone jS-iatn instmctanj will place itself, then organized, in palimpsest phonotactic Este In particular, he selects the Melothetic theme as the foundation of the entire Meiothefias. Let it be e. g Sing to the Lord a new song from him in Ecelefia Sanflorum. And so the plum dirnna assumed theme in cerla-polylyllàba, vkinfrà patet-
His Ark: VI. pen Sing to the Lord Breus 'Vltpriult. ldtiga pèb. lónga: I V. pen. short I sll. pen. lon Jommo CaWcUfv'ffepYff I San of flowers Schema'Có- bination f. Columnar affliimptaru I'm doing it differently of sites g
He has a valid address. then from the same column of this inscription V tertiò co lumnum of this address irr. the fourth column of this inscription v, fifth co Hi, the source of this letter. I arranged all these columns in the order in which the theme was arranged you will place it, as it appears here, where we have shown only the beginning of the columns ne inte the gray columns would take up too much space. r
TTistiA min Having arranged the columns in this order, you will be able to combine them in any way, or for any transverse series while they have equal position (viti here) or while whatever unequal position they may have, that is, however upward or downward- should be promoted, the transverse series will always prostrate the intended Melothesia, e. g. True N? W Magna Comforti, Dissoni Yet in order that you may understand our mind more, Siue imw ih first columellarum disposinone AB quacunq; accept the elderly fiueii3fecjft. nda. dispofmoneF I will be of any quality, and finally, in internal arrangement iSsr. yânsttcnam or any other gentle, it is likewise, lempex Melothesia for He will be rich in your plan. "Consequence for them By this arrangement there is an infinite multitude of combinations, and from the variety of these It can result from the arrangement of five filters, which are certainly as many as I have seen By eóbioation the Angel had begun to unite them to each one from the beginning of the world, in this and d until the end, which is clearly evident from what has been shown in the first part of this book, siiili lisi i -'innidaio s' ttiy i 'Ji-i M V) i
It is therefore clear from this single paradigm how in all the other themes STrfibtiirpetifedendum, for since the system of operation in the rest is diverse V'ijjj- Î Consequence A P V T IV. vfus ap. folding come in with your back k attempts
tsnniuîoU. ih aqrtmÎ! e
From Columnar to Poetic Music tiumdrmation In the previous example, the columns of polysyllables are shown in the order to which they belong which we have arranged to animate the context of the words into harmony, I give in this way we will take what he thinks should be ordered inscribed in the metrical column. My ark, Notan du. or at first there the Theme was assumed to be polystrophon monocolon; Columns "ra'ra rnn all be taken out of the same pocket v. g, if any hexastrophon anacreon- ticutn would assume for the theme, that fex columns from the 4th pocket of the twelve-chamber space the depromptasmxtaordinum fex will join the verses, in any way combined; then proceed according to the rules given in the preceding part, and Melothe will appear sia lupra hexastrophe n Anacreontieum quesita. No matter what type of meter You will arrange the polystrophon monocolon. If, however, the theme of the words is fu, it will be polystrophon that is, composed of various poems, then inscribed in the cells of the said meters lumfi$ are picking. But by example the matter will become clearer. If one were to compose a polystrophe, the first of which. . Hendecasyllabum stropha hendecaphyllabum phalecuium, fecund Ana- Anacreontieum creonticum, Tdirtia Archilochicum, Quarta Euripe- Iambicum Archilochicum Z. dgutm Fifth Alcmanicum Sixth and then Adonius lamb. Euripides
would be Work in this way: after closing all the receptacles, open Iamb. Alcananicus
then another cover of this letter (pro Anacreonticus) tried to cooperate with the pious Archilochus; A fourth cover for Yam bis E uripedeis Fifthly, a cover for the Alcmanic iambics; At sixteen You will open the cover of the Htzius inscription, for Adotjjs, then a pocket from each one in the order in which you opened the lids, take out one column from each, the sacks I have done it before, by ordering it; arrange the columns in any way in this order you will be able to combine, and whatever series of Musarithms proMejothe lia goals to choose. Having therefore determined the Musarithms, the Melothetic operation You will be aspired to by the very reason which you have learned in the previous part. here and there then after completing the operation, place each cot nose in the appropriate receptacles open lids will teach well.
Lib. FllI. Miraculous Lady, jgp By this operation it is very clear that no polymorphism can be given, even more so ile of several meters, above which was mentioned earlier on the account of Melothesia it cannot be fixed. It is sufficient to explain the truth in these few words.
G A P V T V. On the flowery poetic Musàrithmis. ;i, d Vd A fj ni Ontinet Musicas florida Musarithmospoeticospacium hectamorium in on the lids of each of whose receptacles is written the title or kind of meter, to which the Musa of the Ark The Musarithms are closed. If anyone therefore v. g. He would like to compose a sapphic with a flowery pen from the last hectamorij receptacle he first depresses three columns of three lapphic mo- corresponding nocoli, then from the first receptacle of the same hectare one filter for the Adonis, in whose order they are placed, determine each of the transferred Musa- 8c proceed according to the rule I would have been handed down, Gonsectarium I he went. oj. ÎVÎ t cDUL'1 J
il 'c v iru jc Hp indeed, the simple counterpoint of the Mufarithms in the dodecamorian space of the container the columns of the miscueriscolummsindiectamorio fpacio content, Melodie will come forth, whether it is always composed of flowery, vague, and artful, and simple. I ruled very carefully lashing out at the traditio A matter is more clear than it is more vaguely explained deserved Consectariunu II
from which it is clear how in infinite ways even a single cantilena mtitSripoflit. But I leave these to the ingenious Tyroneilterius. . C A P V T VI Dc Mufjurgia Rhetorica
and there is one, in whose receptacles the columns described above are stored, according to the title those inscribed on the covers. If any one, therefore, on the subject of any words, Melothesia artifical and flowery, he will proceed as follows: in phonotactics; palimpsest the pentagrams next to the polysyllables, and the periods previously distinguished, are picked out by the filter nae the themes are more appropriate; ; Indeed, in the first instance, they should be accepted as colurnnre Polysyllabic mufarithms (which you will then be able to derive pleonastically, viz. in-a pra The great art of Disson it was said as they proceeded) from where the column Mufarithmos mniccm adpentasylîaba yf- which we extend, for the rest by continuous addition, or multiplication, pleonastic facikhabcre poter isjdeinde coking extracted from receptacle IV, given to he will not apply to the search; siverò you would like to proceed by diminutions, column from V. They will give what they have obtained by extracting and first joining the purse; If the motetic style of Eccles siasti co u e you wish to proceed, column from he will give it to the receptacle which he drew out location If you want to decorate the song with more than four voices, nocx V. they will extract the intention from the receptacle, provided that the rules in the proceedings You will carefully study the instructions on the composition of polyphonies. But if the columns drawn from the three spaces are arranged in a mixed manner according to the theme The truth which has been said about these and the like in the proceedings, is here reviewed I didn't want it to be longer we will meet
n: rrrmiornr. jaad n APPENDIX
rnutrv V S I Abacus bread Abacus tract from with Rabdologia Mufurgica, a description of Abaci Musurgica. If any of these is divided into equal spaces, let us describe a square with all royals, of which you will have In which classes you will suieliteras Musurgjcas in that order you will inscribe what you see to be frozen, and Abacus Musurgicus will be described, and this A we call it an expanded bay. Thus you will make a contracted abacus. Let it be a parallelogram a certain one, the length of whose side is water spaces; The minus is divided into and the deduction is made the lines will become a cell or a square in each of the columns only those will be placed; put which numbers signed sintjhabebifque Abacus contract sought, qué, vti& abacà expanded into others. capable of multiplying other columns. We are an unrighteous example. netfibiB aurini n tua b.
eAbacus Ai usurgicus expansu.
F G-3 A3 e Cs, Er E G a r b C D y
A i! bi C D x E C D E J F j G
v s JlS ŽJJìtj'J. t. W'i n. i sUIJJ r' s Letters in individual cells m. and they are attached to Abacus. thus videsjiravt-omnesîsupremî letters of the order should be annexed then the fourth lo- When this is done, you will replicate ynamqufiqjex with these columns eight million times, that's vnam. ouam. that column in separate column charts with numbers you describe, de written Contrattin Abacus. Operation through the expanded Abacus. Operation II. by the contrary Abacus D5! d1 s' d R i R i ia c F I N C B i B A f D Gj if Uh Vili. Check it out put the writings in the prepared box, you will have a contrapuntal device the request of the fold. But it will suffice to have developed the matter in one paradigm. Proposition The data is based on the characters above it to compose the rest of the nuts: it v. g. the following clause for the base data,
put the rest of the words on the base spin like this First, I'm going to provide each bass note do not let them take over the stake, as you see done. Then from either side of the Abacus, e. g. out of pocket the chin F one, then from the pocket B the other, ex loculamento G. third, from loculamento D fourth, from pocket B the fifth, from pocket C the sixth, finally from pocket F sep you will take out the order in which the columns will correspond to the notes, with which the base clause is placed After arranging the columns in order, if you want to arrange the rest of the words, do so cola-
by projecting the nose up or down, you will combine it like this, like swords in which numerical they should be held in persibireponde, even with caution, lest at any time or or ii. immediately in the columns that you have obtained, that series of letters in you will sign the phonotactic system anywhere (except the base) pentagram. Expanded Abacus
Application Abacus as well Expanded who Contracted.
CrD G F DS A iS g5 G5 A d3 Br FZ d3 e3 A G i D
e5 F s G A c3 E3; Fj 'Ai B C i D i
From "c jpz Art Magna Cmfinî SBiJJdni. You can see that the shot in this combination from the transverse series does NOT contain the Tenor voice
or Cantus composed namely in C B B A B G F. If therefore you note the same bases in pen- If you apply the taurus or the song or the tenor assigned to these keys, you will already have one of them for the base of the voice, the song is said to be vide they are swimming bacilli, and yet the former numbers do not coincide in that order, fed pror sus diuersuhi ordinem ha b sa n tsnac q ti q u c caution, lest again or or or meet immediately in different operations, and you will have a second. cem in the same way, the third voice is repeated by Metathesineru's bacilli. The twenty-first this artifice, however, is in no way to be compared with the mysterious artifice of the Mufarithms let it be, that I was attached to these things from my will, lest we should be seen to have subverted in any great art. Now we deduce this artifice by means of a double Abacus expansion, Abacus con- Abacus, the first ex-tractor of Abacus, also set the diminutions, Abacus the second in every way tradus& c5 column has only four letters, and it is easier to use the idea and the expedition with the help of three We have applied the system. Therefore, since it is easy to resolve, it must also be clarified. We do not think that we are moderately or moderately trained in music from our work bus faifce applied, -the working method can be easily perused in omnibuses. -Yes
M O D V S I I Abacus Contrapun&atiuus. ?uir. ri: ,notm: rj: De Abaci expansi Contrapunclt fmplicis in pbonotafttco fy Hepate They are written next to the keys. 7. Column, through which m pentagram as follows
Abactis Myotìietim'š Counterpoints LikFJJlj Here is an expanded abacus of simple counterpoint, whenever you can or from an open abacus like this exanfo velin column beptaganstieriproìVràlercie patOvfus but it is who le- May situation niuij y iProposition A A à A II.
tiikd r t kkMi voWBâpK quòtlibetfuser to build it vocesfuser.
ii-tiattsula 'the voice of the same base that precedes, as in phonotactko pentagram- you will put the mtabasis through the same notes, it is your fault. This operation is first known in F. quere jn stente Ajaa ci colum for F. and in the pentagram of the Cantus select any point in the 4th number ascribed to the same, that in the palimpsest you transfer the pentagram of the Cantus j Then ex the pentagram of Alti is simply quoduispunctumvna with a number in paliijipféstîpEta transfer a gram of Alti. Similarly from the Tenor's pentagram which was used in one of the Praxis com transfer the pentagram with the number corresponding to it in the palimpsest; transsatis JcTcoi points with a well-known clause: let B, take jn Abacus column B first Then take the column marked G. And so you can proceed with the rest of the closed give until you have washed off the whole clause. Always observing in the meantime, nejduxb8. .aut dux let them obtain themselves immediately in the various voices, by which points these are translated if you note the same clause: you put the base above with dots in each of the words, it will come out Me-' to all unprepared cadentijS; must be vanitas
But these things are so easy, that even if they are caught at first thought, why later
if M O D V S I I I Plectrology of the
Preparation for the Palimpsest. Vcanturin phonotacticapalimpsesto zr. parallel, finrquepraîcisè as to the sword xquidistant; When this is done, start with the fifth character below. line The third
the tenth true line with this character: the twentieth with the same character U f-f j fi Finally, the seventh letter is signed with this same character or the twenty-ninth character
Scepter When you have finished, you put the keys on each voice, in the phonotactic palimpsest
co; those individual lines of the pentagram ending with coarser lines mabis, as it is clear in the framework of the paradigm, and the palimpsest will be ready. above whom then we will apply pqrficiepdas pqrficiepdas to the pleura. irtîloq 'm. nàšup osib;
a t. 'noi: i? j 'ms q oaif Vypus IBŽ3HBB Mr oaóbndA orni. 3] Ujp jit), Ui33iJ LU fóyfa&ceftwlògitf'9 'Musaruùhuw ibv dia Scepter Scepter The scepter The scepter ThaJiar Terplichore Melpomenes Clio Vi-rnuip The scepter Euterpes -sni3nor Cantus M Hl2? ! iiiij'-rfi Cuit: i3:
FU Q JL b S S P, Em Nòtaht)c loco, scaldiIauium Cantus, Alti, Tenoris, Bassi, ih palitiipsesto phonota- they must be placed in the crypt, and the pentagrams must be brought out in the palimpsest as far as they can; they must but the line of the pentagrams is so distant from each other, how many lines? in Sceptres situated; for if this is not done exactly, you will labor in fruitless composition. By doing this, Scep-
trom Lib. sfili Miraculous Musuraia Residue SceptrologU. Scepter Scepter Po- Scepter Calliopes lyhymnix Erato The song IP The scepter Vraoiz AltU Ttitozr base trum, whose verse you have chosen as the theme, you will apply the tone assumed above; vt if sex then you have received the tone, you will apply the first point on the lower stick meeting the line Key signed F; if you want the Tone, you will apply the above mentioned point of Ipacius G so from the outside, and so you leave the plectrum motionless, until you meet near the points on the plectrum rents, you will place corresponding marks on the underlying palimpsest lines; and the melon will come out thesis researched; otherwise you will proceed to others Bb a Scep- uncharged Anit Jtffignx Consmi Diffini to outline the scepter. travels. smrérvvv
A new parallelogram is made from linen or graffio paper, in the form of a plectrum. rum upon which you will apply the lines of the palimpsest prepared a little above in order, neas in each of the leaders in that order, 3c, distance tem so correspond to the underlying lines, viz. however applied to them, they correspond through do it Now let each scepter be ironed, that is to say, the tips projecting at the extremity ha bet, the vertices of which must have the exact distance that they have between them parallel, and had the request. The first scepter, let us call it Thalia's scepter, and contains clauses for Adonijs or Polysyllables. according to the scepter of Terpjjchore, and contains clauses for Euripidean Iambics, or hexasyllables—Third Scepter— Melpomenes, and contains clauses for Anacrconticis or hectafyttabis. Fourth— the scepter of Clio, and contains clauses for Archilochic iambics or octosyllabics. Why? twice The sixth scepter of Calliope, and contains clauses for Iambic Trimeters, deca- syllables The seventh scepter of the Polyhymnia, and contains the clauses for Phakucii siue— hendecasyllables Erato's scepter of eight contains clauses for the Sapphics. No
There are therefore nine scepters of Musurgica, each of which is multiplied tenfold again thus let there be ten sceptres of Thalia, ten Terpsichores, chosen by Melpomenes; so on multiply the others j, in all ninety sceptres, with whom the whole business of Music is easy—
you will understand this industry. A learned man, and an expert Musurgus or Melotheta— Above the pcntasyllable, Adonis composes twenty artful clauses, of which— we are here only for the sake of brevity in each of the nine scepters On the side of the scepter, the artificer will be placed on the opposite side. Again clauilas-pio: hectafyllabo
Eurypeda and thus to each polysyllabic order of the cone he will put 2'b-qkmfuls, harmonics, for simple counterpoint, and for artificial counterpoint And these clauses He will compose all above one determined tone, and then incribesing them in his sceptres; thus Adonias will describe the clauses in one face of Thalia sceptres, and artjficiolas on the other side of the same. But in the simple Counterpoint, the clause: so much they are determined by their points, for here you see in the paradigm of the new bacillus that it has been done; In true counterpoint, the florid notasipsas of the clauses are marked with staves of siSsânftribes vt in ulcep- It was done for Terpsichores. But why is the Counterpoint Lfgnplicem tan points then let us show, the reason is that in the simple Counterpoint, Cipote water li always in the progress of the voice, puntaad of any character fbtffigm are to be received Suitable; For from the twelve series of known metrometers in'calce pinacus syntag- with regard to the contents of the first, whatever you may apply to them; so in the column for According to Adonius, instead of series of notes, each of these points may be applied, which however, in the florid Counterpoint, in which the voices proceed in a watery time, no it happens The entire clauses must therefore be inscribed on each of the staffs with notes. In having therefore written the clauses in the said bacilli, put them in the ark, according to the standard of the Musarithmi ark ca: I'm cpnstructafny, we'll explain what we'll do, we'll replace it. anonymous stand still f'fîinwc muni
ìahCiQ; Ji Use Lib. I was Miraculous Musuraia
SceftrologU of the Muses.
It is to be hoped that at first the hocartisicium should be arranged in such a way that the tips of the base of the tooth end of the scepter, with whomever and to whomsoever disobedient he palimpsestos with ease when they are applied, always the word nouaharmoniremergat: y g. siyltimusdens staff Thalia will be applied in the phonotactic palimpsest above F. All the rest will give voices harmony in the sixth tone. If you apply the said tooth above the closure G in the palimpsest against the plectrum phonotacto, you will have another Melothefia viz. quadricinium in'fecundo tokr St JJ0'nae If you apply the said tip again above A, you will have Melothesia another quadricinium in the middle. in the ninth tone, Sesie derejiquis jMutatàenimstatione basicctelique: all they will change theirs proportionally. t I
Secondly, to be noted. Hold one side of the scepter as a simple counterpoint las The other side of the florid counterpoint; the simple counterpoint of the solo clauses We have presented the points for the reason given a little before. Floridians, however, each of the clauses with his marks, as appears in the plectrum of Terpsichores, We gave it as we proceeded. Having therefore observed these things; If the mind is of Melothesia con estituendi above the date theme, according to the order of the polysyllables exactly the same indu- aealostl stria, with which in Meiothesia Mufarithmica was made, the columns beside the plectrum of the Muses, or but the subject, e. g. following
answers Adonis pentasyllaho in the plectrum Thaliq; the second clause scares All Kings Euripides responds with a hecta syllable in the second plectrum of Terpsichores; The third clause-. this alone deserves the honor of pldctroMelpomenes, that is, of Anacreontic heptasylla- twice and we received three plectrums one after the other in order, lest we should be forced to take another one separately to do the writing. .
Having therefore placed the plectrums in this order, you will arrange the composition according to this agreement; Choose for yourself from now whatever tone you wish, we will here the sixth which ends in F, cx demonstrated above in the plectrum of Thalia's base, a tooth above F below, ct: in this order, two pleats in the pod, ha- and you will drink perfect Melothesia. i nnq meek For if in the Palimpsest phonotacticoin those spaces which are the points of the clauses in the plectrums They correspond and correspond to those described, the points printed, and then the points marked one of the twelve series of metrometer notes incaice of column I. of pinac III.
The contents of Syntagma I. will be superimposed; Melothesia qngsita will appear. Etsiartisiciofa you would like to mix the clause with the simple ones, turn the plectrum, vt in II, it is done; For if then, in an unaltered situation, the notes of the individual voices in the spaces were palimpsed you will have an artfully arranged clause, as it were, you rebuke You will not proceed differently in all other periods. For indeed in the previous ones We have shown that it would be unpleasant to the ears if the clauses always had the same sden then the final change from C to F. You will easily avoid this if you observe what has been said about the change of tone We have given the mixture in the previous part as a fuse. Sienim v. g. plectrum II clause flower Will you establish the last laugh in the palimpsest above G, the statin clause from the 6th tone of ii? My grabs, thus the desired variety will be born, For as I said a little before, the last tooth for other, and other notes applied to the base, always produces new and new melodies, where, however, the precept in the proceeding must be handed down in the same namely, ivt first, And the last clauses of the song should always be of the same tone, but the middle ones may be varied at will teres After all this, the following melody will appear at last in the palimpsest. . ctj: ìSits4 iiq
prepare ifS tArm ysagna Conson. Disson's Paradigm Melothesias Pkftrologica.
E: E: 27EO: Z Zi rZZZiZZ- z f-m is pQ. Rcger ra this de cet all honor. You see from this varied paradigm how to proceed in the rest. It is true the knowledge of our youths certain things are to be objected to,
Caution should be used with A-obseruastones.
Leâra applied in such a way that they are fixed above the palimpsest, so that they do not even move the hilum in place Let them go, for otherwise the whole business of harmony would collapse. II. In the mission of the tones to be struck, which of the signs. b. we said For in pre with the second paradigm of the second clause, while it moves from the sixth tone to the second, certain these places is found Therefore, that all these things may be properly arranged, and that you may know the purpose of this the signs of the manner should be set; so to work -Explain before the present Abacus, de then see the last note of a clause It seems that he will strike a nail, that he will be roasted pto example will be F, vt in the first clause the third plain, search therefore in this Abacus co a stream that begins with f and ends in f, and see if any of the above occurs anywhere- signtirbm none of these occur ret, that you also do not worry about such things of setting signs': for the tone of these is incapable Indeed, this will certainly be a sign for you; If true The last clause of the base falls in g, Vt in The fruitful clause of the paradigm appears, tue look for column g in the present Abacus, and you will find rcS f inscribed with this sign you should really, vt is clear in the paradigm. Note, however, in e letter b. but with this caution. vt E is not prefixed to the note in f. except when the immediately subsequent note goes up, or final
c Le crD Son of Ltk. Musuraia Mirafica. nalisfUerit, And b not propdnàEàSkà E unless'fubsequens déric: .Anyone who is obièrtiSftcjitftproce4es- Ham
I threatened IV. Quce. de pleonasmo, sue de multiplication gofarùm ynius Iyfyiiabainprocedent tmdldimitss hiftikcWPtbùš also be applied góferìint e For the first clause of this paradigm, according to the pleonastic rules, f I I I. I n a. u A M 4zw K il P
it is with her that d e vai ia cÓlumnarumiMufarithmicaruriš ad inuicenipplicatidne tra we learned He, therefore, who had previously been scrutinized, is the mystery of this also PlectrpWio will not be able to know.
Of the comparison Musuraiamusariìbmua of this pleEtrology. F Are these two Mufurgic artifices found by us in the spring, for you leave ex- I. eessumj Musarithmic inventifm in the proceeding part handed down, vti vmuersalis- X1. U1ÌÎ is, and of an incredible variety of rèfeîts, so that this is more splendid, more ingenious, and confummatiusest k-j. ec plectrelogy indeed and if it is not so universal as the preceding one, this
however, it has the advantage of being concise, easy, and with all intents and purposes an application column of tone to column of clauirfi prouià, statin of any voice process in-, let him present his pentagrams; this, however, has the opposite disadvantage, that in yna the plectri parte is not nifi vnica dlyauìSla'l qu& imi ex tiottriS tmaphomjs Mufarithmis'in the voices arranged resppnde. t, descripqffit Hence, we would make the artifice more universal We have decided to multiply the plectrums more cheaply, as the larger number of clauses, and co-J[teha pious Melothetus would be supplied. i If any one, however, multiplied the plectrums to he could f reaching back to the earlier Musarithmic technique. Where and to be noted, if one has so many plectra-, ctroiogis. sieri would take care of how many are contained in the pinacistries of S. y ntagmat Musarithmi, one by one lo and he would transfer the Musarithmos pinacus into correponding plectrums, he was going to have it Plectrology is widely extended and Musarithmic technique. Which ideas are here in more detail I have made it clear, that the reader may see, how plectrology of this kind is brought to a conclusion he can bring about perfection, and clearly But these things are filled with let them be those who have greater leisure, and who profess this ability. For us in the infinite there was not a small variety of different occupations that he had come, and calculated the Musarithmos each by his own energy, and what else? posterity I will be surprised, he will be surprised, for the ungenerous thinness of the prostitutes with the continuous irrigation of the luxuriant seeds I doubt it. And even with these things, with BEO, to whose goodness we will bring all things, the end of the im
i, 33n; ,jwn3rio; -l OOIIp 4UÌIIr[ Siibflitn; , V NI VERSE ALIS LI BER Ik X" YJt' 3M' j ITILil
from T DISSO N tniiTiMii n. ri3; bop: r. 3 r: i: j from the sweetest sounds, and all the: mysterious, through innumerable experiments iv-'uD V
aia i. a i. r vbBiii'-mdîiiiin'tiitinìiiMs i rnLi": throw? but the thing jR SENT to all ijs -qut8 to speculative and practical in whatever way they seemed to belong, the works worth guiding in this place were ideal also darlm some rèrUm-, with the help of Music in the science of the arendnasonorum -Pruna part Physiology of Cmflmi Disson, the secret power in Conson i d reafoi The second part of the Latrice fiue Medicine of Consonance and Dissonance) insecludes the prodigious cares of the tnorbor.
Tertiaparts Teratology of sounds prodigious sounds occurring in nature from time to time through ytct explains the real reasons. dttti&px- Fourth Anacamptice of Consonance Dissonance Echology, on the miracles of reflection WMf. Tiat in which the whole formation of Echus is handed down from the first foundations of science. How much MechanicafiueThaumaturgy of consonance and dissonance and with other machines I treated the rare manure very copiously. Sixth} Musurgical Cryptology, by which the concepts of the hidden soul push the persons into two or more It is taught that they can communicate with thirsty friends; Having seen, therefore, the anatomy of the whole book, now to the details Let us turn the writing pen.
part. ìfliSin LibiX. The Magic of Boundary Disson
v. t. rii Parsi CONSON'S PHYSIOLOGY E T D I S S O N C A P V T I On the wonderful power of music. AGIAMS, in harmony and dissonance, we say that there is nothing else but power that producer of prodigious sounds, which fades between ccetc- ras Magically, the natural species occupies not the least place, for it is who the busdam of the sound is now to be admired and altered and drawn, as you understand a human being can scarcely reach their true nature by force let us know how much magnetism is inherent in musical modules, how attractive it is the efficacy of virtue, no one knows, therefore not without the reason of Prisci's Orpheus Musicum. The magician drew the animals, the sylves, and even the very rocks of the lyre with a magical sound, of which Claudian speaks very elegantly in the preface of his fruitful book on the rapture Proferpinze, in these words. Then you go to the country at the time of the Letatus festival Next, I try to repeat the threads from Lyra
And the resident Uni modulated the nerves of the foot I will marry a nobleman on a festive occasion. He was hardly heard, the winds died down, and what? The lazy starfish drowned the Hebrews in the waters. Rbodepe went to the thirsty CarMina mountains Excujfugelidas I prefer Offa niues The people of Aemo went down naked
And the count of the oak pine draws his friend. Phyrheafque of God, however he despised the arts Orphai's laurel came to suit the words.
Easy to caress the rabbit vidcre Molossi And the neighbor wolf was able to stick by his side. ,brConcords play various games with the Tiger Lady I command you not to fear Massy Lam Cerui.
riiviiun This is indeed the prodigious attraction of the animals, of the woods, of the rocks, which are partly trod it must be taken logically, partly allegorically; For the Prisci noted the greatest music- to be a force in the soul, and to change it according to its various sounds and harmonies, and so that the wax, wherever you twist it, follow the idea of the same a%%jv minura without a beginning of all, and vt Psellus in his Music says mfounxuv ol smAow owsttr mv l Prazte- in fact they saw that the same music could compose and vary the manners, for nothing was so good let it flow into tender hearts and make them soft, as the various sounds of singing, of which It is scarcely possible, how great is the force on each side, for it incites the languishing, and He makes those who have been excited to faint, and then relaxes their spirits, then contracts them, as he later declares more fluently is swept away Therefore, rocks, hairs, and animals, that is, people who are completely senseless, wild, and cruelly, the giants were attracted by the sound of the divine Lyr$ fu to humanity and political force But others understand the said attraction allegorically when,
for At the rocks traction from Orpheus fa what do we know tct. You want harm nia in everything the bus is hidden Force Music; in the morning spirits Force Music: of diseases Curator Trumpet of the deaf the manner in which understanding
VnbMtsalit for they say that Orpheus was an eminent Astrologer and Musician, and that he had perfected both these arts being clever, he would so opportunely temper and mix the sounds and heavenly stars as he desired he himself would understand me, he would imitate the harmony, and he would call it to this one, as their he would draw all into himself, and throw away the influence, and the force, on which he depended, whatever or let him draw and draw, and draw, and let him subjugate them also, because it is best for us see, in what proportion and in what harmony everything was constituted by nature posited that, to whom the star appeared, it was the subject, mustcales the same reasons as Lending and their stars, he would entice the inanimate to motion by the forces of the stars, four in them it seemed to produce its latent external harmony; not unlike iron from flint He stirs up a latent fire, or brings forth a flame hidden by puffs of air; for they are in everything some things are like hidden sparks of fire, and a woman is harmoniously sensible, adeo vt or the ancients would say God himself apAvuv mvmi}. Hence, on the authority of Proclus, they compose all hymns to former leaders of the Order, but others intellectually, some rationally, some naturally, some sensibly only. And if anyone (inquisitive) he would hear the pulsation which the individual parts of the air make in the world, viz. to the sun, the moons to the moon, I sent him a certain sound of this kind towards the King. he would notice his apt composition. whatever they are capable of accomplishing. The magnetic force of music moving all things, as far as it can in men, is known; For neither can a heart be so merciless and cruel, that with suitable tunes and songs He shall not be spared to those who draw too much, he shall be restrained against those who are indecent and awkward, and be restricted The song Musteus reveals the sweetest thing given to mortals in secret nia's mercy; in war the drums are resounding, to add to the spirit of the trial; nantuba and flute to raise the spirits of the soldiers in fighting. Timothy the Musician as often as he pleased, he inflamed Alexander's heart with the Phrygian sound, as he was brought to ar but he would run, and when he would have otherwise, by changing the tone of his mind, he suppressed the ferocity of the At the same time, A&conuiuia was drawing him to feasts: something similar is read of Cytharce I give something to the King of Denmark. Did not Pythagoras, according to Cicero, when he was a teenager?
Tauromineus, struck by mad love like a thorn, was rendered peaceful by a resounding fpondsore does he say tame? Certainly to control the impulses of the mind, and disturbances, Musi Theophrastus is said to have used cos sonos; Clytemnestra for continence and chastity Incited by Cytharoedus, abandoned by Agamemnon for that reason, history tells Tro- of the Janos. Plutarchus deipsotcstaturade0. se inflammatu a quo harmonic moduli I will give to Cytharoedus, viz guessed Not only men, but also animals themselves are captured by musical patterns, there Elephants are beaten, according to Strabo, with drums; The flute of the swans lyre sweetly sings the volu the cream that deceives the bird the phone is not stopped; to the flute modules. Pythagoras is said to have checked the attack of the Wolves here ifchiaticos, melancholics, frenzied demoniacs, poisoned, cured by history They tell the sacred and the profane in detail, as will be said later. But Asclepiades from here and there It is alleged that the trumpet of an ignorant authonbt took care of the deaf, I would not understand that as if it were a trumpet It is the phone, and the modus operandi; but what is in the form of a tube of gold In the deaf bus In the following I will give) the types of sound of words; vinitas, increased by various repercussions or the hearing teacher of the deaf would stop more effectively, while the deaf were being cheered on in a strange way, things received into the fable, that Asclepiade was cured by the sound of the pipe of the deaf. So, having thus promised, let us now see, who is there to draw the hearts of Magnetiftus? which proportion they should have in harmony with the ears, that we should be so delighted with them and what is number, weight, and measure, both in sounds and in ears, Is the soul, according as it delights in the sound, or is it rebuked with some kind of wretchedness when it hears the same? Sut for certain sounds are now troublesome and awkward, as if by their harshness the teeth themselves grind. some are so fit and well-dressed, so easily influenced, that they seem to snatch the soul out of reality there etc. Magic of Conson sj Disson
there When I bear this, it is scarcely possible to say how great the power of this kind of harmony is, and it is vain: Caciamauthbrum is the controversy and distension, as much as the consonant modules the opinion of all the pnè-Scriptures being discordant, some have this force in every con the sounding source is God, or the soul is composed of numbers, to some I do not know into whom i fi the heavenly flux, or the Cabalistic decachord, or else the hidden phymphatic ani- with musical numbers, contributing to many geometrical accounts. To whom absent from them, and having left them as if they disagreed much with the truth, what do we have to say about this? Let us set the attractiveness of music with the ability to attract the soul; and by what reason and process God made various things not only in men) but also in the brute animals themselves cat, let's finally open C A PVT I I
Of the nature production of Conson Disson.
All are angry why the soul is so much affected by consonance, but only so much by dissonance abhorred, whose cauf and reasons are understood as vt. It should be noted first, that two things are to be considered in consonance, the collision of bodies, which; it is done by the movement of sounds: and what proportion they are like two principalities, that indeed Physical, this mathematical, by which all consonances are caused. Physical motion ni i Vde ri to consider, in mathematics, quantity, numbers, weight, measure, and all other things He passes the portion of one phone to the other. I will continue with all the voices and sounds tension or relaxation flows from movement with speed or slowness, so necessarily the more intense, the sharper, and the thicker the movement, the faster the movement; so much so The more relaxed and rarer the slower the movement. Where? everything learned from Boethius Duntur lib. i mus. chap. 3 where he teaches that those sounds are necessarily louder, regardless of mo by the very slowness and rarity of driving them, but sharper ones, those movements were more rapid and more frequent, until now it sounded more acutely like a nerve, if you were to concentrate
there; it is more important if it is relaxed, because when it is tense, it gives a faster pulse, more rapidly it is turned, and strikes the air more frequently and more thickly; it does, and the very weakness of striking the rare escutcheon trembles in a shorter time hence the pipe? or the flute? vt in the Organic Mufurgia book we demonstrated for the closed ones, and-' on account of the open holes, because of the compressed and relaxed air, now sharper, now they sound duller and higher, which both in the organic pipes, and in the larynx, or rough arte- It is clear that this is human: for how much in them is the tongue, or the epiglottis, or that fissure, where the air comes from the greater the sound, the longer it was, and the larger the pipe, the louder the sound, the greater the volume the shorter and tighter it produces, the sharper the sound. Whence consequently, whose larynx {lomimbu S broad and long, high and low, but some of them are tight and small, with a high and sharp voice they usually swim. The truth about these is explained in the first book. It should be noted, secondly, that Nerui died, or that the sound of his voice was not continuous I will grant, but from discrete and interpolated movements, a sound of the same kind was fused, as in the Chorus, not Dosophia has been said above, even if our ears are in the least able to perceive its inconsistencies. just as the eyes are unable to judge, burning not to know, which one is the fastest in the world with many sounds, does it go round and exist in a whole circle, or is the whole circle fiery? and Boeotius was entangled in the crowd. He clarifies that he is surrounded by children by the example of a long, fertile rod of the color red the depth, or the depth of the cone, is imbued, the whole cone will revolve there, with a red color-# He will appear infected, not because it is so, but because the parts are not at all colored red. let him grasp the speed, or else he will not allow it to appear. Similarly, the more intense the nerve the bus bounces and trembles with the blows, more relaxed with fewer, for every time the string is pushed, no only one sound is issued, or one percussive blow, but the air is struck as often as with three the mebunda struck a chord. Whence the addition of motions from the granfiate
Cc L tur, &714ufargie Vniuersalu but by the withdrawal of the motions from the point the gravity is loosened, when the point is from many it will burn with movements. But how is it that the number or the size of the heavens is given? can you cut the mouse, what are the parts of the suit? fintin gives the proportion of the harmonic fuse in We handed over the harmonica.
At last I will bring them together. Music to surprise her more than in spirit in which co, t obtains by admonishing affections, not flowing immediately from the soul; which; with the immortal fiftatvibmus- stt imraateriata, he says no proportion to the voices and sounds nor im- can be changed, but from the spirit who is the origin? instrument, or soul; principal con by the junction by which it is attached to the body. For some of us are futile spirits the blood vapor becomes very mobile and thin, easily excited harmonically by the air He is stirred up, as the soul feels the stirring, for the various stirrings of the spirit are varied he also brings forth the feat, hence with the spirit's swifter harmonic motions and spiffier- the bus is excited, and as if curled; but with the fathom of the spirit there arises an expansion, which is followed by joy and joy, which are all things the more they will have the greater affections, the more modest they will be, the more polite they will be, the more suitable they will be more proportionate to the plexus and constitution of the natural man; hence it becomes Vt while at its best we perceive the established harmony as a melody, a kind of tickling in the chord and in the mind, let him feel as if attracted and absorbed by this suitable excitement, - the wall what variety of emotions will the most promote the different modes or tones of the mustache, de which has been dealt with in the preceding chapters; diminutions of other notes, ascent and descent, various reciprocity, various dissonances and consonances artificially mixed combine But to move the spirit by this reason, and no other, I manifest by this experiment I do the estimation. Musical Experiments. Take a glass cup of any size and fill it with pure water
and when it is clear, with the moistened forefinger of the hand, circle the extreme rim of the cup. If you rub it a little, you will finally hear the once wonderful sound of the tinnie you will perceive the metal by which the agitated water is so violently curled, as if by another wind with which it is seen to be driven. You will only fill this cup halfway, you will feel that the same sound, but twice as loud as the other, so that this sound is in perfect harmony with the previous one I will receive it will resound, consequently also the water will be softer; you will notice Divide this same cup into five parts, and fill three with water. with the two remaining empty, the glass will resound for you in consonance, which is also weaker it will be accompanied by a cry; Thus, when the vessel was divided into seven parts, four of them were filled, and three were filled with which, you will perceive the consonance, which is also weaker than the previous aqu$ cripation will follow. From which it is clear that our humors, and principally our breath, are of the same nature then, who has mastery in the heart, the most powerful factory of all affections, to be moved Hence with some violent sound like thunder, and an explosion Em enoter! we perceive with the mind, we are struck with a kind of horror, because the spirit is im- the reamuT. 1 suffers from too violent an illifion and disfiguration of the propositions, whence the horror terror Hence, too, we cannot endure the noise, if anyone shaves with an iron knife, with its roughness some muscles were drawn to the teeth and brain, twitching Bruta uo mâlèaficiat. Where? all things also agree with animals, for they are of some form sfo The will gloat and be praised, which, however, could not be done, if you want that music: from the soul reason- where the deleiìennal would flow forth immediately; yet man delights in music in more infinite ways than m animals, because he knows the modules better and more perfectly. ca- G A P V Ti I II. Of the affections of the soul, to which music incites. pioMi. s, therefore, according to harmony: diversity is also clothed with various emotions of joy, music moves the emotions to action: modulations, as said in the preceding book is either because they are congruent or discordant, or because they are excited or slow: or what is greater, that they tend to be sharp to eagerness, even if they end with a heavy veil, and let the rope be relaxed, to pity and tears: but to love and hatred, though the affections of all Mutica does not arouse the most experienced, because the love and hatred of someone are love and hatred as it was said to be absent; Mutica, however, warns the generals only about the feelings of the mind, arouse them tur so en removed from the general feeling of ligtity, from a kind of abrasion of the skin. I came with Mu Thus, it cannot generate sadness, nor can it generate hatred, but give sadness It is clear from this that sadness leads to death, and Music leads to death And why is music, as Ecclesiastes rightly says, an importunate narrative in mourning, Why, when we are mourning, or with a heavy heart suppressed by a kind of sadness, do we reject all music? mouse, this platform, because the spirit or humor, fear, or sadness through the strong frozen and constrained by the imagination of evils, rejecting all with emotion, he renders himself incapable of his vellum, if he were therefore a Musician, who here condenses his spirit Well-ordered music could relax, not to the point of sadness, but with gentle trickery ris, he would bring it with a somewhat expanded breath. We spoke to the eight most passionate about us I have seen the breadth of money, which, however, can easily be called back to these three affections It was also said above that forgiveness and mercy while other affections, viz. love, sadness, boldness, fury, temperance, indignation, that they result from life and religion is accidental, since all these are general from these three but they result from the affections of the soul, as we have delivered in Musurgia Rhetorica. Therefore, various intensities and releases of tones, various ascents and descents of reci procations, various: discrepant, reverberations of voices, various: magnetic attraction They are the cause of emotions, the effects of which are greatly increased by four things. The first technique
a mixture of tones, a combination of va and ise sounds that lynch themselves at the hearth and thesis those with whom the consonance and dissonance are joined to strict friendship: they are connected by laws, as nothing praises it may be more easily perceived that the diminutions of various words, and the siiga, are artificially woven together mutual and friendly insecurities, they increase a great deal. Second, determine the number tus, caught in the wind. Thirdly, the actual words or text of the song m. Finally, I decided the audience itself, that if they were absent, no commotion would follow from the harmony. Ciim for the various dispositions of men do not arise from any other source than from the movements of the spirit the chief of all powers, so sentient as to warn the soul: organs in- instrumental alteration or even vocal movements are caused, by which movements the spirit, as has been said, is now gathered up, now distracted, now relaxed a little later it is given, and in consequence of the various alters; which are caused by sonorous harmony, turns being engaged, the mind necessarily follows the state, and disposition of the spirit to be inclined. Hence the lascivious enjoy gentle, soft, and sharper modes, because the effect which these irv the spirit is proportioned to the excitement of the present, and to the like affection with which they incline. Hence the two, one of which is heavenly, the other burns with earthly love, in one and the same tone Dorios or Lydia long be moved by emotions, or desires, that heavenly country; combined with a desire for earthly things, here a copy of carnal ardor, an appetite for things ca together with the dukes, and so to speak of the rest, so every one is more delighted there harmony, which nature: and complexion was more like and proportioned, di and it was more consistent with the proposition of the speaker, etc. M agi a Confinis Dissoni. Pafiionrs too much most mo when Why Music in sadness not standing please What to say are they laughing? power through faster than Musi approx. require-' there Tension harmony to the spirits vital C Ow ali) no they are mere iiori, alijnon what comfort narria dis sounding r
àMusurgU Fenmersaliâ Chapter IV. The number of cases of consonance and dissonance has been investigated. Orrò how Music moves the emotions by its modulations, from the previous ones easy to know by saying Only now it remains to be explained how some people some may be in harmony, some are not, and why should they move the consonance to the affections. What is to be understood, it must be known, that like consonance, it is unlike a voice or the proportion of sounds reduced to one; yel of sharp sound, and the mixture of high and low sounds and fearfully, an accident in the ears; thus the dissonance of the sharp and high sounds mixed ad coming to the ear is a rough and unpleasant percussion. When, therefore, pleasure is perceived from the hearing of two different tones, cau so it is that the tremors resulting from the vibration of the chord, are often repeated, and invnum con heart, when the spirit is similarly excited by anger and concord, the imaginative power to de encourages reading; but to the displeasure, if the tremors were said, either not at all, or they seldom come together; Where can anyone know how these things happened here? It seemed to demonstrate the whole business through several propositions. Proposition I chord so tone excited with water time necessarily unison-1 they see each other in time. Let's take all this together and we'll demonstrate from the first basics in Chordo- Sophia, which is the first part of Book VI. which: is written Organic Mufurgia; Because yet this place, as it were, demands the genesis of consonances, here the same we decided to repeat it briefly. I suppose, therefore, from the evidence of the cited book, that all dia- dromossii or equal, or unequal one string; to follow long-term So are there two? string water and tension and crasslitie AB, CD, I say from the hollow incitement necessarily I was born in a world. For from what has been shown in the quoted place, the Isotone chord to in- they have each other, etc. the time, too, should be as long as it is, necessarily by force the limit of the brations in each chord will be
you can For each chord, indeed AB touches E, and CD touches F, in one and the same way, at the time of lincin M, those in points of reflection striking the air, will cause tones pror sus the same, but in retreat at one and the same moment of time in S T hitting the air they will cause the same tones as before, and thus they will give birth to the same and the same sounds nor trembling? the chord having attained the center of gravity: let them rest; Then he was struck let them read each other at the same moment of time with the reflection points of the air, and this for each one diadromes, or course-recurves, will necessarily result from this, as has been said, that tone one-phone, the source and origin of all consonances. Duj chord therefore Isotomg necessary rio they produce a vniphone, which was to be demonstrated, Pro- Luke Magi a Conson, ts) Disson.
Proposition Two watery strings of the thickness of which one of the other should be twice as excited they necessarily produce a diapasont of their own, in such a way at the time they are fattening int veri du$ chord$ AB &BC of which h$c is in double proportion to it. I'm saying that the sounds of excitement will no longer be a loan shark at the time. Which for it is string to string, so that the turn of one's movement to $quidiuturnitatem mo the tussle of the other, that is, of the excited chords through Book VI, will necessarily follow the chord AD: du I hope to finish my diadromes more quickly than let him make the chord BC. They are incited for the dug string at the same time; indeed the chord AB in G, BC in F. will necessarily pass through the chord AB to then the space G. once, while the intermediate chord BC from F. reaches D. Then therefore that in O. velini in the terminus, and here in D. when there is an influx, there will also be none of the sounds, when then the chord BC reaches the chords AD at the same time it reaches to S, and there each chord: the term obtained, this in V, that in S the blow of the air caused the first fatigue to come out completely; whereas the chord AB runs twice as fast the chord BC, necessarily one to the other in the union of the tones will sound the diapason, or octave. The diapason is therefore caused by the combination of sounds in unequal time, flowing as it were, to be demonstrated; But here we will demonstrate otherwise. Another demonstration of the same. it is the major chord hypate, Nete vero, or the octave of G. minor under the double chord: maio ris: And let the chord be hypates the space BC in which the vibrated chord runs and runs again, but nets the space FG subdouble of the former, and will have itself, i. e. string to string, so the space that runs through to exB& F. illa indeed in S, here in G. But minor, in. F per coming there, as if the limit of motion had been obtained, from the reflection of the sound of the air, will cause the chord BC. in SC vt you can still be removed from the term C as far as ex B finished in S, in silence; but he soon reached thither C, where he returned from the brass repercussion li abit; But the minor chord interin from Gin F. in what time and space with the chord. B. C. retrieving from S. in C. current, at the same time also in F. it will not resonate, while the string BC resonates in the term C; therefore the first of the sounds will be made here in the same way up to one string, which will happen every time, every time the string vibrates BC the air itself he laughs: when the minor chord runs through twice its distance, while the major chord
B. C. once; a smaller string will necessarily strike the air twice as fast, as greater, and consequently it will sound sharper, and often because of the large volume of vibrations the audience, thus affecting the vital spirits with delight, which we have spoken of (which is the first harmonious degree) will make it inanimate. Where in the strings how do you extend if the reflection of the air occurs in each string at the same time and in the same space, vni- a sound will be caused, which is thus related to harmony, viz. , a number, or a point to the line, whence harmonic cannot properly be called, fed diapason of all con It is the sweetest of sonorities, because it is a perfect blend of high and sharp tones who Diaeifaron.
lily quieter, than it happens in vliisalij confonantijs, when only one minor
he had a sound) which did not go to the major chords. The rest: but consonance: more they have sounds which do not come together, and consequently rarer and rarer, according to their consonance the diapason receded more and more tessarorteonsonantijs will become clearer. Proposition II If a string of water is thick, it will end in diapente in the other half t em for this frofort they will avoid themselves.
You will imagine that these subjacent lines refer to the transversal lines which the Diadromi chor da rumin citataru m make up Therefore let any chord be greater than the space ve ro, which is excited, traverses AB. EI) and the other chord tninpr EFG. it should be related to the former, viz. two A of a string running from one place to another, but of E with a sound that is promoted in the string from this to that the last, in which, in our way of conceiving, striking the air, cause a sound, which be I do not want you to notice) therefore each one runs, the greater indeed from A towards D, and the smaller from E towards G; soon, then, while the minor comes to F, the major will begin in Bresonare, so there is none of these of the sounds here it will occur in the first place, with the sound of the chord: in D major it will occur later, as the sound of the chord: minor in G, and no sound will be made in EF, when the movement of the major chord ris in E the limit of the motion of the drone has not yet been attained; When, therefore, the chord: major the movement from E to A must still complete the same space as the minor chord from E to G, to A G, the movement of the two chords: the boundaries of the sound will come first. You see Therefore, as the vibration of the strings is, so the sounds are to the sounds, when therefore the vibration of the minor chord to the vibration, or the course and recursion of the major chord vt to z, thus the chords of the minor tone: to the major, therefore, the minor femper is two tones o mixed, which do not come, the sound resulting from the third vibration, chord: major con join Whence the high and sharp tones are slower in the diapente than in the diapason
Proposition IV. Two strings of water sound thickly diatesjaron, because they end in the sixth the third temporisfrofort they vmunt.
The chord is cut off: the greater space A through which it runs excitedly, AVXBC. Minor DFE space, let it be string to string, and space to space, vt ad
-invj OK-Kq, 1 zoq. r. -vj: i; atifs; ,2no
namely, in the proportion of sesquitertia, in which the proportion of the diatessaron consists. Moved therefore, with each chord and the terms A&D, the deletion of C&E, it is certain that the minor mo tus, where it comes to E, will be reflected first, and where it returns from E to F then first mother Lib. Xl. Plagiarism of Conson, Disson;
mum will begin to sound in C. the chords of the major movement i where then the minor in D. coming fe where it will resound, the major cx C rc'uerss rhotio will threaten Xpuncto, and where the minor come rit in F, the major will hold A, where the term obtained, reflected for the second time, will sound I mi but the nor moved from Fin E will resound there for the third time, meanwhile the cho: da moved to the major in V; therefore, no sound is yet lost, as soon as they acquire it, the greater one the chords move from V to C, and the minor from E to D. for that time, and in space the limits of the motion are reached, that is to say, the major in C and the minor in D. there first it will happen in no time, so that the minor chord falls in this consonance, omitting three tones, which not one of the major chords, the sound finally resulting from the fourth vibration to go The judgment is the same for the rest of the consonants, as long as they are incomplete. things, how much more they recede from the simplest tuning fork, and how much rarer tones they come in, vt sitin ditone, lemiditone, hexachord tone and the like. So ditonusfemper four omississions, who will not be softened, the fifth tatuai vnitfemiditonusverò. quin- which, omitting the unassociated sounds, the sound resulting from the sixth vibration of the chords is major ri string: it only hums. See how quickly we have dealt with Chordolbphia. But if, therefore, the slow and fast movements were proportionate at the same time, and easily between fe let them mix, a consonance will arise; But if they are disproportionate and there is no mixture, or if they admit a union, dissonance will be born. and they mingled so much more easily,
how much more similar they were to the source without being visited, or even closer to the source. From here I agree The nantia diapason is the most perfect of all consonances, because in the first proportion, the diapason, the most perfect and simple visit is only a monad distant pcrsicirur; cularis, or half a diapente, and has itself vt to which immediately follows the first eA- portion sesquitertia, and has se, yt to in the harmonic arrangement of the Tones it is perfect, but in the arithmetical arrangement it is imper it is considered done, discordant; whence it is only perfect and harmonious. Come on he says that these proportions of sesquiterta and sesquitertia are confounded, by the fact that from a tuning fork should be set up together, but I cannot set up the most consonant of all so nt, if they were not stabbed; and from three consonants the whole of music consists, I cannot all music is nothing but harmony consisting of these three consonances, nor vllalym- phonia is possible without these three. Therefore, in four perfect consonances from trust the system consists of simple or compound ones, and from this to the with nina confonantis pass away with their perfection, such as Ditonus, Semiditonus, and Heota Mu xachordon maius, nue (exta major, the first of which is composed in the sefquiquarta proportion stens, it has vt to the other in fesquiquinta fe has vt to The third in proportion fup. erbipatiente tertias se has vt ad fjvocantur consonant imperfects, qui- but when they are perfect the whole circle of consonances is completed. You see then how I give from the visitation flowing out of the consonant in the garden of the whole circuit of its perfection, thus as the wings of the consonants cannot be assigned, they fall away; Who netarer, he will clearly see how D E VS, Optimus Maximusfon all har- let it be But here in III. IV. lib. fol. ioo. & we have delivered more Hs, therefore, of the consonant for the different parts of the musical scale, in a different arrangement they cause the constitution of tones, semitones, sharps, and chromates, of which va by the combination of things, for the various combinations of men, the spirit is also variously affected; And so and so, as it was said a little while before, the result is the result of the ascetic and impetuous spirit; So then our spirit is admonished to the reason of the excited air, not otherwise than a string touched al it excites the untouched earth, whence if our spirits were chords, they would be excited by these modes they would perfectly express the admonition, which I make clear by the following experiments. experience Chord- string- cUlantcm. . advise sc he went Organs fiftulx chor you also give in proportion nationally from move back Musurata Vmuersalu experiment On a solid, smooth and concave board, the new sinews are extended in that order which appears in the following diagram. First, let the two nerves AF be in quantity equal in quality, or in intensity, that is, they will resound tonally with the same intensity arranged according to the scheme of the subject. Therefore the first chord of these, F, should be struck with the plectrum taveris, she all the strings for herself, or equitenfas as much as you can resonate will do, however, with this difference, viz. it seems to be more sensibly advised; At first, the sound of the unbroken movement of the F string with its fury that the tone of the first will be especially felt: the eighth; A will encourage him to sing what he will do, but he is a little weaker than the former, as he may not have retreated a little from v. because so too will he incite, but scarcely sensibly withdraw from the enemy more equally, if I enter you will put a feather on yourself, you will feel the trembling of some string, and then it will be thin; that hardly a find it marked anywhere, with most of the hypathen vniphone only, net to others They thought they were moving untouched; but long experience has taught me the contrary, all of them for the strings are moved in harmony with the trumpet, but, as I said, so much more effectually, the more the fon they were nearer to their own. Dissonance, however, was only moved by a friendly excitement, stubbornness persist. eat
Moreover, not only the strings excite the similarly stretched strings, but also the pipe: and the trumpet: They make the strings sound like a happy tone. The truth of which is more fully demonstrated there, I will mention in this place what once happened to me in Mainz, for while I was in cda: o I will destinate a certain sun from a separate temple for certain business during the sacred season, ccce chelin major (which some of the singers had previously sung to the organ of the temple exactly he had left the newborn hanging on the wall of the ode without the loosening of the strings) untouched, and with no one present, I do not know by what secret movement, I feel it resounding at intervals from time to time; therefore, having been informed of the matter, I came nearer to the prodigious sound of this kind I was going to examine it, and while I was doing it, I found here that at the same time as the Organaedus, the flutes of the chor He incited the said chelysexacte and correlpondents from every side; the strings themselves are no different they were excited by that tone, as if they had been excited by a phacter, how harmonious sympathy several times afterwards I exhibited it without great astonishment. And this phonurgia and others Later, I attempted to present the places, but the arrangement of the place was similar to the one mentioned: It was not permitted to find out by chance the advantages of the art of finding; dwarfs in this kind of harmony for First, I check the perfect matching of the pipes with the strings, and also the exact distance the placement of the pipes and the sound-propagating walls with a certain location not necessarily required, noted. But the construction of this, since it is not of this place, is another matter perhaps more, God willing, we will speak. Now only this prodigious eff the exact cause remains to be investigated.
ca- C A P V T V. On Sympathy and Antipathy on the Reason of Sounds Note, first, that three things may be considered in this kind of tone. First, the body that they sound it moves, and the body which is moved by another to the sound. Secondly, proportion a kind, or similitude, between the bodies of sound. A suitable medium for the third. It is a fruitful note, that sound is not propagated through the medium of air alone, but everywhere in it in the middle they found a body fit for the purpose of consecration, in which they could exercise their powers: for air he who is dissipated by the sound, from himself and his own nature that wears out the vnion; but the motion of the thirst is the sound of thee let the knowledge be better and more starry in the body of the propagation of a suit suitable and handy; they are a by extension. From here I bring the string excited, the other similarly extended in to excite the touch, or because of the greatest resemblance and proportion, which the body is They have nans and sonorable at the opposite end; with similitude proposition. that monkey is a certain monkey of the liturgy, the whole movement of the vehicle should be a certain basis and foundation. Secondly, because of the then the air; for the air is moved by the motion of the sound, and so is the sound to the sound, just as ae The ratio of the excited water to the excited air, as was shown above, becomes vt the air was still stirred up by the rioni, which he brought down, imbued with simulacrum, as soon as he entered the body the sound, in proportion, and of the quality which it produced, was capable of falling, at that moment so he attacks that with which the air had been attacked by the previous sound, and with a sharp sound in the heart through a most sonorous and airy pore, from his innate nature, he sought the propagation and propagation read Hence the string moved and uniformly stretched, or any other body, or an instrument that is admonished, because it has a sound similar to and corresponding to it that the air, in the quality of its association with the body, is similar to it in quantity and quality, a by which he was incited; From whence it came forth, and to the perfection, or good of him panting, it is likewise stimulated by the twitching of the ambient air, and the Octa chord the resonating vessel, though untouched, is nevertheless excited by the lower one because of the greatest similarity and the proportion it bears to it; for in the opinion of all, it does not differ from the inferior it bears only the acute ono, whence it is considered the same, indeed, virtually in the inferior tankàm acute (as Aristotle testifies) it is contained in the grain, and there is something like the repetition of the lower voice the dam is sharper and more intense, whence naturally women with men, boys also and eunuchs who sings with men of an advanced age, inteiuallù diapason naturally can
so much Bells and other musical instruments are also mixed with a lower pitch they echo, that it could not be done unless the greatest similitude intervened between them, for portion As the external air is thus related to the internal string air, viz the tension of the chord to the chord, and the chord of the tuning fork should be in proportion pla, it happens that the air next to it moves the proportion also and incites the air to the organ of hearing internal and innate thorium content between the membranes. And it is clear from what has been said, By what reason does music appeal to various minds: for it has the power of moving by hearing or with delight or pity, or in some other similar manner, for the variety of sound, ris moved, which moves the hearing in such a proportion to the curate; while the air is this or that in the same way as movement, and inspired by man, moves the spirit in the same way, instead of sounds Various affections are excited in animals in various ways, such as by movement of the air, etc old spirit For as soon as the heart is the throne of the spirits, the trembling air they receive them into their breasts, and with a kindred sound they make a sound, the rest of the spirits follow them When the scales are placed in the parts of the body, they warn or restrain the muscles according to their numbers. the law either increases with frequent impulses, or rests in a composed tenor, or rests in slowness it is imitated, not otherwise than in the sidi bus pause mentioned before, tactà chordà quapiarru, the other, equally tense, trembles. For those who are in the heart are spirits to the external sound they are excited to motion so much more easily than a string, the greater the wind; depressed and withered soul, due to the addition of air to the outer tubercle, Dd raised Lib. M agta Conson, Disson How choc string darri intadâ move Why children adults together singing o. ctauà diltét? Spirit now string mo spun through gOflHŠ sigmo V3fjOSV3 Fi# i-ÓfflOuSt
Mujurgix Vniuersalk But the old man is restrained, or even taken down from that platform, by reason of the contrary: Hence The reason is also clear why the and other actors kill those who sing. Why do they cry out? thee, let all cry out at will; in a battle or a sermon with no shouting, or co fear me, there the whole line will shout, or cry out or groan, but this breath the excitement of our country from the sound of the east must be shown by an excellent experiment. experiment He took five glass cups, all of the same size and capacity, which You will place them in that order, which is exemplified here in this scheme; a cup of water for life, a cup of better stars, another subtle one, another one sharp, vt ma water, or oil; but the middle is common water; With which fast the extremity of the finger is moistened, I pray and eat the cup, and stir until it makes a tinkling noise, which I will stir up in the experiments a little above to whom, you will perceive, for this sharpest sound is not without astonishment of all the rest it will excite the humours, and indeed so much more violently, as one humor has been to the other more subtle, Hence the water of life in the cup which refers to a fiery or choleric nature, pr Of all the rest, he will jump most of all; but the wine in the cup will have a bloody complexion or ae reporting the ria, he will undergo moderate excitement; But the fine water is phlegmatic presenting the constitution, he will cause a slow and dull commotion to the rest; Yerd water, contained in a thick cup, because of its earthy composition, scarcely moves able to laugh It is not otherwise that music should be judged to excite the affections of our soul. If you go there our spirit was warm and warm, the music of the proud, insolent, and passionate it will excite movement: if it is more subtle and moderate in quality, it will be extended to loves and joys then, and will incite romantic affections; if constipated It was more, to tears, religion, content He will warn against slander and other pathetic affections; if, in short, it is fat, it is a pain for men compressed by the dew, incapable of all commotion it will be, and therefore rightly the music in mourning it is a story From this experiment it becomes clear, in what way different sounds in people of different complexions the effect is to be drawn by lot; otherwise choleric, others
thrice sanguine, otherwise fine phlegmatic let it be moved, that all things should come to me clearly if this is the only one they are enlightened by experiment, vt reason excited he will demonstrate his music almost apodictically, as in watery chords, but from different sources they consist of the entrails of animals, or made of metal, for the weight of the metal is certain metal, so string to string, sound to sound, part etc. The Magic of Boundary Disson.
PARSI U THE CONSONANCE AND DISCONSONATION OF MAGIC Mufurgic-Iatrical Magic or Curative Medicine i. fl of diseases to be fanned by music. PREFACE A? At the RICAM end we call it Musurgical Medicine, which in cu indeed, the diseases of the soul and the body are quite exotic and prodigious prxflat. For just as he was demonized by a foolish book, Terpandrum and Arion were well-known to all the Hifioric people. freed from the gravest diseases by singing; Herophilus with musical numbers of the sick to weigh the veins of Xenocrates with the lymphatics of the poetry of dementia that he had claimed and others, to whom he imparted that knowledge of music to use as a thief let them turn their ears to the wind; that when they were partly declared in the proceedings, partly infe to be declared to the defenders, and not to be repeated; but only in this place will I bring the account of each one we have already married C A P V T I On the causes of that prodigious care of diseases Music to be arranged. ICC- TT Arias assigns various reasons and causes for this prodigious concern. Kabbalist; usually all things through his phirothic channels, through which the divine force flows into each part of the world; flow in attribute but the manner in which the mourners bring forth this, we shall say, giving to God in our Oedipus An Egyptian treatise on the explanation of the tree of Sephivoth; Platonists, in their fashion, the causes of miraculous effects ip Mundana; the soul; harmonizing everything to itself (which he called Colchodea) they set up by ties; Astrologers Alchemists; omg they attribute to the influences of the superior bodies; the accounts of all of which I will tell you. The Astrology of Conson Disson, we will treat the Flue in World Music, that Reader we send And I marvel that men so wise have abandoned natural causes to such absurdities that all human ingenuity was removed from the pleas; And they seem to have done the same thing, which leaving the riches of the household in the land to those who have more abundant riches, they migrated, exposing themselves to innumerable dangers. The truth of the individual effects Let us first assign these causes, as usual, to demonstrations let us suppose that ours should be established on a more solid foundation. I suppose, therefore, that the First Air is not extrinsic only, but intrinsic to everything to move the object to the ratio of the sound, so that if the sounds were in a double proportion, in ae in fact they print the same proportion, if in threefold, triple, if in quadruple, You will sit down; And just as the visible species emanating from the objects I cast into they do not become sensible in the medium, except while they are actually perceived by the living organ and even though the appearance of all visible things in the air is confused and impermanent (see Art Lucis fusè we have shown) to continue Since the air is perpetually full images of infinite species brought forth by him from objects of every kind: thus vt
Cabalistic najibus sa- pyrothic all ad- they will write Platonic Ef out of the way cos cairia dark world to be born Astrologers Alchymjft. a: into the influx bodies Celtic air pollution nephew of whom only with must be taken usurpa Fniuersalu The experienced listeners searched for the visible species in the air, and also the audible species. This is the only difference bilis effucun- tia, why is it permanent? It would be perceptible to us in this property, if we were to feel the same harmony in any part of the air, te0J wllwn'quam the Musicians utter. All these things will be clearly demonstrated in what follows. I suppose, secondly, that the prodigious cure of diseases in this manner should be considered threefold. I put them first supernaturally, secondly by the art of the devil, and thirdly naturally. At first
belong to the genus all i Ure cur$, that they have a manifest miracle attached to them. and so Christ the Savior called Lazarus with a loud voice and he died, and he was deaf Having whispered this word in Epphetah's ears, he restored his hearing, and similar things which were then in Sa we read in the letters, then in the vine of the San, gods. Secondly, it is certain that from time to time such Oh, I hate the prodigious cares of Music procreated with the help of demons, through an implicit agreement velex- joyous pernius plicitiiim For certain Magi can sign a pact with a demon, fjeam (whereby the Devil prostrates the effect of health, so Music or any instrument opirpa then he can hire a musician to accomplish the said effect, and in this art the Brothers so the fien'po of the Rosy Cross is performed to heal any even incurable diseases j which later fu they will be explained. Thirdly, by the natural force of music: of which we have spoken in part in the proceedings it is, will be said in part in what follows, and I will treat of this kind of force only in this place we received the gift.
Thirdly, I suppose that our whole body is breathable, nerves and muscles, etc to receive that impression through the external material sound, which the choir acquires I gave a string to the sound of the wood stretched over it. and thus not only extrinsically, but intrinsically they are excited by the sound of the air in proportion to the mucilage, so that the muscles and the muscles do not rush and the spirit the music of the coci- implanted with the motor capacity of the stage is driven by them, which proportion- tari. they can, the soul then perceiving such a form, at last the greatest alterations or washing of the body It is necessary to be subject to sadness.
I suppose, fourthly, that not any common diseases, but from which the black and yellow bile is imme dependent on a diet, can be taken care of with the help of music. For hectic, epileptic, gouty and the slowest diseases, or even those, because some vital member has been corrupted, I think djsiawv should be taken care of I suppose the fifth is the musical nature and complexion of him, whom he wishes to care deeply for it is necessary to have insight In addition to time, place, and similar circumstances without which I think that the intended production could not have been achieved at all reason With these suppositions, then, the already prodigious cure of certain diseases to Let the curious reader know what is to be thought of them.
A P V T How David played the lyre for Saul in the Spirit escaped from evil. Let us explain this question better, by first quoting the words of the Holy Scriptures, and so it is held in lib. Kings chap. xvi. Whenever, then, the Spirit of God ma it was lighter; for the evil spirit departed from him. Music, then, a swiss pulse like, - that the spirit of God is evil, the words of the sacred text clearly teach, but how that happened, many; they explain in various ways. The Abbini Decachordi say that in this place David, while he was taking care of Saul, was personified by the Deca Chords It was built with the power of the pilii Iterius, and the Virtue of the ten gods They say that the EU? US wanted to make certain products profitable The Rabbis said that David had known that star, to whom the concert was to be joined, as it was easy for the frenzied they are retorted, and he would have himself lighter, so R. Abenezra, in Micra heggadolah. Picus Mira- dulanus Lih. M agi a Confini, Dijjoni. dulanus thesis Mathematica, he says that music is admonished by the spirit, so that the soul may be furious, fi- tt. Aheoezre the medicine for the skin stirs the same to rule the body, and music to weave the body through the soul, surely medicine cures the soul by means of the body, from which it is indeed easy to collect tt, caulas Ir. git on which account David easily repelled Saulé in his rage; whence no one sees the most vain aulis of Abe- curz s not that it was a comment, for David had not looked at those aspects of the stars, Saul calmed down his fury, but as often as Saul commanded, he struck with his right hand, and so on as well as other aspects.
Having renounced all that we have said, we say that David Saul is melancholy, in the form of fury, which he himself perfectly nurtures, and then also that he did not deliver him from the demon
with herbs, juices, pills, and other dispersing agents. But only Musicg power efficiency; And let us demonstrate the matter more clearly; Note, that rage or mania. to take care of, by which: they open the pores, ward off soot, relieve obstructions, refresh the heart, but with soil, a harmonic concert you could do that, since music consists of sound, whatever it may be they are produced in the river of air, whence Ion was the head of the air, which moves the air with mad spirits, these the spirit was stirred up by the movement of heat-3. but will reduce faster effects, dif- and they will sip all the mixture of melancholy humor at last. Or if it is more difficult, let us put those spirits to rest, and make them quieter, so that they do not trouble me so much nin en lancinent, sonis very slow paruifqueinteniallisvtidemus, vt attract- Qu'bus mo-
push David a concert of painful movements was given to him and the biting vapors that And the hypochondriacs, who are in the brain, are slow to let go of the quiet man. so Clirr. Davidic music, therefore, was able to calm Saul in two ways, namely, spirits and smoke I said to Saul, thus admonishing, warming, and softening him, like a melancholy juice open, and the cells of the brain are disturbed or disintegrated into thin airs, and through perspiration the insensibility, the sweat, and the pores are gone. Secondly, whence those melancholy spirits when they left the juice, it could not flow until they returned, which is of itself earthly as if destitute of action, unless vital spirits and animals admonish him and which they had translated, but they left it, when they took it to their ears, like a band of harmony and the grace of the day they cried out, with which the fury of the two men ceased, and with which they returned indeed, but it became easier and more expedient to drive away the melancholy of the season, to diminish, and perhaps some part of it into a kinder spirit, or to con- they could connect From which it is clear, that I would staunch minnè from the sound of a lyre but that he had advanced to the greatest skill and to David's greatest skill in playing; For when David was of the highest and most sagacious talents, and especially in the presence of Saul's armor-bearer, He knew very well the impulses of the mind which had driven him here and there. whence not so much proper as divine with a raging instinct, no doubt the harp? , or something else which instrument. of the mentors of the Musicians, and very expertly played every detail in the music of the Hebrews the instrument was said to be so dexterous and to adapt the appropriate tone to the King's mood rat, perhaps he had heard some of the rhythms that Saul liked best and knew how to recite them making a goth, or even a large metrical, in so much worrying until finally in would achieve the intended effect. For and with the harmonic motion of the lyre, with which I was armed As a young man of a beautiful and handsome appearance, he was wont to be wondrously affected, and was, in addition, a spirit the muscles were excited words harmoniously combined rhythmically twitching the hearing, they were releasing the mind as if from a dark prison into a deep region of light. by which they were dispersed the fugitive spirit oppressing the heart, at last gave itself room for the heart to expand, from which, expansion necessarily resulted in happiness and rest in troubles. heart jf# qM usurgia V niuersalié Corollary I
And from what was said, the spirit of the Lord ma the game was consequently beaten. For the melancholic mood of the dark so dark and gloomy, it offers itself the most suitable place for demons It is clear how phroenetics, menstruating men, who with much black bile abound in sei- Musicians me. various demons took their seats in that misty vapor; They render him capable of illusions. The most obvious signs of this are the exotic works sse: ? the things which they accomplish, now learning the languages which they do not know, now divining the future, now by perpetrating one thing and another, that they cannot at all be attributed to the pure human nature. Hu- therefore a melancholic vegetable and succulent, with the devil as an instrument,
It is a certain thing, apt to stir up the mind in surprising ways, it is not surprising that it is dissipated more like the former soul; I was restored to the tranquility of the postliminium, as afterwards I work at Tarantium we will say frogs Corollary
From what has been said, by what reason music plagues, lycanthropy, the fury of the mind, and others He has removed the movement in all these things, of which I have mentioned in the preceding passages mouse When this happens with the grace of the spirits, who are thinner, faster and hotter rendered, they dissipate those humours, and attenuate or mitigate them, by which they procreated diseases
tur, and consequently the imagination of the mind from the apprehension of the disease afflicts the soul more equally thee, turned away for the time being, were so exhilarated, that the roused spirits drove all the infirmities from him He will appoint a lady who, due to the effective control of the mind, runs here and there and flatters, until they had finished the battle, in almost the same way as some of the northern winds stirred up the air They cleanse the infection completely, and putrefy it with the same acrid acrid vapors they keep away from it. For when the vital spirit is airy or ethereal, and the sounds He perceives the waves and the air moving rapidly, that movement and the rhythm of that it imitates the clause, just as the intellect is the operation of imagination; activities of the will and of the sensitive appetite, it follows the action of the mind and imagination, you can scarcely distinguish one movement from another, so those corporeal spirits which are namely, the principal instruments, the impvcssioncsatq of the alteranon of air; movement is easily used by leq. G A P V T III. On the wonderful history of King Danix's music insane
Vstcam not so much to remit from fury, fcd to excite fury, following he will teach the xemplum, refertautécasum Cranziuslib. 5. Danite OlausMa in these words. When Ericus, meanwhile, had already returned to the kingdom, the court of Folmeni, and many others He would delight in the industry of soldiers and artisans at the same time. Among others there was a musician, who was an artist he would say that he possessed that skill, that is, he could call people into whomsoever he wished to have affections, ex the masts are happy, those who are happy are sad, those who are indignant are appeased, those who are calm are indignant And then he would boast of making himself mad with fury; And what he was doing that ma more, which he said he could, made the King all the more eager to try it. And now the penalty I thought that the artist of his nursing home had not preached so much about himself The experiment of the king was not without danger; Moreover, if he had said less, he would have proved it by doing men Lih. ÎX. Afdgia Consortii q) Dissoni.
He feared that he was a liar, and that he would be regarded as such, not without criticism; He prayed to those who could He wanted to turn the King away from him, but he did nothing. Wherefore art retreated still more the experiment, the more fired the King. Vbividet, he would not escape, however im pleret, when he had agreed, he prays to be exported harmonies by which l$si0 can be brought in; then vt outside the sound of the lyre, some of them, who were about to be rescued, took care to rescue hands. Everything being properly prepared, Re A gem with a few people in the hall is locked in a guitar attack. Grief first granite a certain one he was saying to the audience, by not cutting it, he turned it more plausibly into joy, vt v? MUsot it would have been a little less, so that they would have jumped at the least. Then, by means of sharper means, He aroused a certain indignation, when he entered there, to rage against the King standing by it was to spin. He soon gave a sign to the evacuees to enter, and the King was already flattered tem continerentillisà first from the lyre made, then the King is acrored. But so great was the strength of the man, that he would have breathed out some with his fist; Then he was crushed by many but that ardor subsided, when he had already recovered, he mourned ardently himself in those whom he had previously trusted most. Here is a totally wonderful story, which indeed brings Saxo Grammaticus lib. And this King was called Elicus by the nickname that the good had flared up to such a fury, that after breaking through the doors of the atrium, he seized with a sword four or three he dug; and whence he was restored to his mind, having left Jerusalem to the son of the procurator of the kingdom,
that he had departed and died in Cyprus thanks to the atoning murders; Where did you go? lest there be a little doubt, how the sound of the lyre has such ineffable power He was able to seize the furies For Alexander was driven into a rage by Timotheus and to harmony apprehension excited on the lyre, I did not come near to the strange feint of the king of the esseruescent bi the case, Stanimi exactly Marti); for as he was filled with fiery spirits, these were in a modus operandi March, more excited, was easily effected by the fury of the skillful Cytharedos, whose genius It was known to Alexander, they could bring you in. But how this best Danite King I do not see that the ardor of the mind is incited by intemperance. At least here some circumstances convince me that the effect was entirely natural. For Cy- tharaedus, that is, the King, in his fury, struck the lyre upon his head; there I do not know that this action involves an agreement. For if, as he boasted, men in He knew how to stir up the fury with the sound of the lyre The king, from a violent agitation of mind, with more relaxed measures to a milder He did not call back, as was the case with Timothy and Pythagoras, young men burning with lust Historians report that they were recalled to continence. The twisting also which he did for him I repented of the effect of sending, Darò showed that faith had seen an infallible effect in the King, and consequently, he feared lest a great danger should threaten his head. Why so; Satellites tes chose to stand outside the sound of the cytharg, I do not see the reason why Music does not omnibusvt It has been said that it is suitable to be excited in the same way, but for the codes of different natures. another advised otherwise. Therefore, there is no doubt that there was some kind of implicit agreement here, by which Eun it produced that effect so powerfully in all. Or if there was no agreement, Damon yet I will say that he intervened in this action, viz inuasit, so infanijffe we read, that there was no Dauidic lyre sufficient being, to when expel to read For it is certain that Saul was not always cared for by David, indeed twice He tried to pierce the psalmist with his lances; the bile stored up by the Devil was insufficient to dissipate the agitation. However, in spite of Saul, he was able to derogate from David's great skill in the art of David rite With the word in such prodigious cares through harmony always natural I would have believed that something preternatural existed, even if it was the force of music v. let them flee, that is, even in murders, they are carried out openly, as in this example above and it became clear to King Saul. For they were affected by Taratism, even though the exotic manners of the music were pro they take the pig, and they are close to the lymph, yet it has never been heard of as will be said afterwards. I will go on how to deal with sciatica and other diseases who- aiS offriusar FniuersalU some could be taken care of it will be said in what follows. Now to take care of them because Taran they are intoxicated, let us turn the pen.
G A P V T IV. UJ' Harm sounds you don't want to How I am weak feel free there The prodigious care of those poisoned by the bite of a tarantula through music —Ihil, indeed, my judgment is carried away by my affections; whom in the toxicity of his poison Ta the rantella produces can be more admirable, so as to rely on infallible experience, om lest the prodigious cure of diseases by music be accomplished by the products of this alone We believe that we can demonstrate leadership. It is true that about this kind of medicine from pro We have discussed it tirelessly in our Magnetic Art, but here we only repeat the same in summary It was thought that we should not appear to have passed over the argument of Artis Conson Dijson, so remarkable. Tarantuhe, indeed, was a form of nature, property, origin, intent, and other things We have discussed in the cited work Magneticojquare, omitting these, only three to be proposed here-, I thought that they contribute most to our institution. So let it be. Question I Why suffer from sTarautism in no other nip harmonic medium Do you care about music alone? May my advantage be strong in exciting the emotions of the soul, and as in this harmony
This is a vigorous cause, as has been shown in the proceedings; now it remains to finally Let us show you how you can cure diseases in Tarantism by means of music can it be removed, and the weak restored to health? Without, therefore, cheap words The purpose of our reasoning is ordered. When the chords or the sides, as we have taught in the foregoing, have the greatest force con of quoting the air to the manner in which they themselves are moved, proportionally to this of the sounds, the mixture excites harmony in the ears and delights in the mind, as it is done by this trusting harm nia, from the various proportions and the movement of the strings, the air is harmonically excited, the air moves next to the harmony impressed upon him, the motions of the harmony were similarly excited, penetrating, fantastic being occupied with the faculty of entering into motion, by diminishing the spirit, let him also move in the same way, ipi- the rites were weakened by movement, and the muscles and arteries and the inner fibers of the spirits were rarefied receptacles, should be conveniently affected; The fibers and muscles are the vehicle of the hidden poison let the disease be sharp, biting, and bilious, hidden in the innermost fibers of the marrow; when the poison is raised it is rarefied, and heated with a kind of itching, or the whole twitching affect the type of muscles; but being patient, sweetly affected by this pleasant twitching, he is forced to break out into the forest; at least the commotion of the whole body and fluids; heat and movement, the relaxation of the heat of the whole body, and the opening of the pores; and finally perspiration necessarily results in the opening of the pores of the poisonous breath. When indeed, the poison is so deeply rooted, that I cannot breathe it out with a sigh tit, here every year a portion of it was gradually removed by movement, until the whole was consumed mature Diuerfi di turn in mentally affected they are done for poisoned, he- plexion of man by the end and to be attributed to the diversity of temperaments, or of Tarantulas, or of men, I think for those who are melancholic, or have been stung by the tarantula's duller poison, rather with noisy drums and clamorous instruments than with strings and strings for when the humor is thick and tenacious, the spirits follow the disposition of the humor there and for the dissipation of their excitement a great force is required. From here to Taranto it is written, that there was a young girl under the siege of Tarantism, who with no other means to the salt he could only be compelled, except by the noise of the drums, by the explosion of the bombardment sion, with the blare of trumpets, and with stmilibuf instruments making a violent sound bus, for a slow poison, in a body of slow and cold complexion, to dissipation I was not, except that it required great force. For the choleric, and the bloodthirsty, the harp: test Dinis D chelium, claucymbaloi, one of the harmonious harmony of the clarinet, and the thinness of the spirits are easily taken care of. This is perhaps the most worthy of admiration, because this poison is the same It stands out in man from a certain similitude in nature, which in the Tarantula throw for as poison is stirred up by music by the continuous twitching of a man's muscles He stirs them up to dance, like tarantulas, which I never believed, unless it were so By the testimony of the above-cited Fathers, I would have found that to be the most dignified. He writes for the experiences of this matter in the twofold Andria in the Ducal Palace, in the heart of one of the Fathers to ours, and the whole hall beyond. For the duchess of the place, as this admirable child rae's prodigy would appear more clearly, given the Tarantula's work, the conch of water it matters, and that a thin fescue placed on top of it was soon called a cythard ordered, what? At first, at the sound of the cythane, he gave no sign of movement, but only rowed where a sound out of proportion to the humor begins to play out, the frequent shuffling of the feet lest, with so much agitation of the body, he did not only attain to the dance, but truly ad I saw her leaping over the harmonic numbers; When I returned, the animals stopped jumping, and this, as they were feeding, I entered an exotic tank Andria was astonished, and Tarentium afterwards learned that the senate was in command the thing that his music is this bad even for the public magistrates to pay for the poor
the medium, which the employees were accustomed to take care of, to the care of the patients and each one to be speeded up, the first of the infected usually complain, where, in what place, or in the field, and whose color Taran was yours, from which the bite was inflicted on them. When this was done, the pain was indicated immediately, there were many Tarantulas of all kinds, and they were weaving nets they are engaged in their labors, they are wont to approach the Medici Cyrhards, and to try various harmonies kinds of rum, to which, strange to say, now these, now those dances, not otherwise than in twos with the polychord equally with the cincinator and the overphonation, how similar were they to the chord? they are advised in tone and quality. with the rest unmoved, so and for similitude and seasoned by the action of the Tarantulas, nunchas, now they find them dancing because of its color They saw the tarantula, which had been pointed out to the patient, burst into the forest, for certain they have the very sign that they have a true and certain measure of controlling the poisonous humor ovt3c proportioned, and most apt to care, in which they live, an infallible cune they had assessed the effect they had achieved. Consequence I Luke M agi by Conjon, Disson.
Girl Tara papa quze no except the drum nis to be taken care of grind Mira pror pork ready xon in Tara your observant then Try it then wonder Taranruia quoqj to io don't pro- portion dances inc it is clear that the same effect of the dance is preslared in the Tarantula itself, which h$c in ho for the humor of this little animal is very viscous, and easily to the sonorous air, because of its subtlety, since the subject is the most suitable for receiving the sound, it can be done: let it be excited by the movement of the harmonic air, exactly similar to that of Sona the tore is made, causing a vibration whence the animal itself suffers a kind of itching he is excited to leap; preferably if the sound was proportionate to the mood I was born, but the viscous humor of spiders is capable of being the subject of sound, Peter the Martyr He testifies in his history in the Index of the West, where he says, a certain kind of spiders ge a nut found in India, the virus of which is extracted, is still tenacious, so that it does not yield only in silage natives, but instead of faith, as silk with Bombyce among us, let it grow wild. What, then, an animal is moved to dance, depends on the disposition and quality of its humor I think it should be attributed to a sharp harmonically excited and easily mobile; for if quoted in vi-
E e scoso Viscous animal sub shot (one propositions then Entry Ara I do not speak to the Indians. co trusted ser out C i usa forest With which I muse it becomes closed that's for Ta- rantiacs
friusurgite FniuersalU we could perceive a hidden humor with the senses, certainly not a dissimilar harmony we could feel what the senators do with their faith. And a certain ex experiences seem to bear witness, as it has been said in the proceedings. For we see some at a certain sound, or grinding, the greatest discomfort of the teeth is affected, while grinding pain here? the muscular parts of the gums tend to twitch. Which they also contain git, if the neck of some trustee is seized with the teeth, for the body of the whole I hate the continuation of the spirit of the party into certain agitations the soldier himself, whom the trembling string makes in the air, is disintegrated and shriveled; which; pul- are also shown by the experiments shown above in the musical magnetism d, The tarantula, with its bite, gives men a kind of subtle soil, which penetrates the hidden and he pours out the poison as if it were a kind of vehicle, thus excited by the periodic heat of the pores, in the whole body, especially in the arteries, muscles, and diffuses the intimate tissues, whence by this agreement he is gradually brought back to harmonic movements he is disposed to walk, and at last disposed to harmonize the system by twitching his muscles, jnfirmumjvelitnolitsin forces the forest to break out, and thus the intended healing effect prostrate Consequence Olliges fecundus, which is like every Tarantula; whose modulations co- they come, but with certainty, so that a man is struck by this or that Tarantuia, here or there For it has been said that the modulations of the meeting are not warned except by a violent noise
you, as it happens in these Tarantulas, which; they are predicated with a tenacious humor, so in man i they move easily and to a sound that is proportionate to them, as if they were under them They are preyed upon by their bilious humour, for by their motion the poisonous spirits are easily weakened in them which, when they are sharp and biting, attack the muscular race with their twitching they lure liars to the leap: If, then, a melancholic man is thrown by a melangogue, him it will render torpid fomnolent; sicholerogoga, choleric, mobile, unstable it will make him breathe frenetic and furious rages, and so on, especially if it is music. Let Tarantiacus answer. But whose sound is proportionate to the poison, who deserves it bitate poster I say, therefore, that the quality of poison is excited at certain times, and not otherwise All periodical diseases are caused by an ebullition, or a certain agitation of the humors in reality, but the humor attenuated by the force of the poison in a kind of fine thread like threads between my mouth sculorum Jict&u&vx to be diffused, that if they were such from the condition of the fluids, it would be easy to do so they are not harmoniously excited from without; picked up to sound as if proportioned, and the very movement itself became violent, the muscles to which they were attached, with twitching, then biting material; they will provoke into the forest; Hence the greater the sound of the note rum and diminution, and sharp and high voice, in the tone of frequent hemitons when the bus is full, a greater permission; The future will be so much more favorable to you who are afflicted with this disease dry Because of the speed of the movement, the muscles twitch more violently, and consequently ad He is more anxious to dance. Hence Cythardi, as much as possible, has a variety of voices diminutions, &vt mostly in the Phrygian tone, because of the frequency with which it consists of hemi- tones, modulations are used to adorn. ca- C A P V T V Of the various Tarantulas properties. And I went on to say that the almost prodigious and totally paradoxical thing has not undeservedly appeared to anyone polii t, that is to say, Tararmi lam from a certain dissimilarity of natures to another completely contrary; for they suffer neither a single instrument, nor a leap, nor the gestures, and the symptoms, were completely different. That with a certain It is related that he was at that time residing in Taranto, nor by the testimony of many worthy of faith, until he had made the danger of the matter in himself, and Taraotulas He wanted to rest. Therefore, two Tarantulas of different color and quality were searched for in the hand contranjs f3 he put it on, and allowed the lacerations of the glass to be impressed on the different parts of the hand by the punctures; jbmacS. After receiving the bite and the poison gradually spreading throughout the body, they soon feel that it is becoming stronger. of the greatest paroxysms and of the anguish of death; Musicians of this genre, different kinds of harmonies are played; he finally feels weak from to be strongly urged to dance in one mode; but in vain, for how many years have you come? whether Tarantola; he was anxious to jump, only another poison, since the whole substance with the similitude of the opposite, resisted and retreated. other types of bit instruments modulations; from one of them to dance again he feels himself powerfully instigated, but in vain; for this poison to the leap of excitement It was thus inhibited by the former, incommensurable and profusely contrary, that which the former conceded the ability of the other would be irremediably denied; in this, therefore, the struggle of opposite qualities constituted weak, while no reluctant nature, and hostile humors fer if a remedy were found for this, and the exhalation of quality would not be granted to the Vllavenes, life-- at last he passed away, not without pain and pity from those who thought him sorry; by his own example teaching how reckless and dangerous it is without caution and circumspection I will explain the almost fatal experiments of this kind. Unless, therefore, the poison of Music had been broken, it is certain, that Tarantia would not have been defeated fe, or at least to live a miserable life full of the worst symptoms. That two other examples confirm; from the Sacred Order of the Capuchins, a certain Tarentian elder from, bet.
It was Taratala, whose natural appetite was driven to clear waters, 'here while eodé. ceu By a kind of magnetic kinship and relation Taiantiacus bear to the Tarantula Appetite he should not return, nor to a more luxurious bath, much less a remedy common to all, by force it would be nice if he were allowed to break the force of the disease; so much biting in the end that He was inspired by the effectiveness of the struggle, as one day he slipped away from Coenobio as if his mind was in an ops, in he entered the sea, towards which he was driven with the utmost speed, that he might find some refreshment to greet him he would find a remedy for the atrocity of the stimulating disease; but it happens otherwise: he sought, he found death; for he was drowned in the greatest pain of all, at sea. Robert Santorus Nobilis Tarantinus was bitten by a tarantula, which he did not know, to the extreme but he was gradually led away; Doctors are unable to diagnose any symptoms of the disease, At last it occurred to one of the bystanders that he was suffering from the noble Tarantism re; He settled in the plan of medical conjecture; is stopped, instead of the usual complaints, the types of modules are tried, to one in proportion to his evil, he who is immovable, and from the service of all his people He was kept fixed to the bed, free of charge by the sharp reverberations of the harmonica and the old ac roused from his lethargic torpor, he at last begins to move his languid limbs, then, throwing up my arms, I soon continued to sing, and having recovered my strength, I sat up in bed, to twist the neck, internal? Perceived from Music? giving clear indications of pleasure; then, pretending to play the guitar more energetically, he even braced himself on his feet, what more? Lih. The magic of consonance and dissonance; W[uJùrgÌ( Vntutrsalîi At length they broke into dances with such vehemence, that it seemed scarcely possible to contain them, who went Is there a narcotic first? buried by the efficacy of quality, he seemed brought to the gates of death, excited by the wonderful resonating energy of the zither, and in the sweat of all a broken heart, soon to perfect health, or is this the only dance? exercise restored, book im later! He lived from every infirmity. Question Why? arautism affected by certain colors so many er e be deleted? it was struck to arouse the various Tarantulas to the various colors affected by Tarantism i and by what reason it happens, we must now explain. I suppose, therefore, as proven by experience, they are inclined to that color, which they prefer so but those who are wounded by the red tarantulas incline to the red color and flames there because of the green, to the green, and so on the rest. Also, which Tarantula? by rivers or they are affected by the ledges of cisterns, and when they are struck, they incline to the water in the same way: which? veto in hot dry places, they generally tend to excite the Tarantiacs to bilious actions. What if the complexion of a man is Tarantola? he answered, so much the stronger effect for will stand So there are some poisonous animals, Qia? exactly the same affection which they themselves suffer, they transfer to others by their bite, thus the serpent Dipsas, when struck by a leper he will be crucified, he also does this by biting a man, according to Although this twisting is extinguished by no means, Thus he stirs up a furious bite at last.
Thus the bite of a rabid dog produces that passion which it produces in a dog also in a man. viz. CJ&Qoqttzi, or fear of water; Cerastes also, as I received from the Egyptians feii, the fear of fire and light both in the serpent and in the man infected with its poison, strikes Thus the torpedo renders numb, numb limbs, and as the parent also prunes gra, leprosy, epilepsy in a woman suffering from the same diseases shared with her son The poisons of the various tarantulas seem to be attracted by their innate property when the color which she refers to, or to which she? they are revived by occult magnetism, or to incline to a kind of similitude; But the tarantula is recreated in a certain color From this it is clear that, placed in different colored planes, they desire that plane which is theirs it was similar in color. From which it follows that, like the proper poisonous humor of the phan- Cause
the race of this animal to this or that color, viz. (a$eTO- trary, g-at or disagreeable inclines; so and the same humor mo. su in the body of man piAia. transfused, with the same magnetic relationship secret and wonderful correspondence it will provide the effect; For at the same time as color, ex. Gr. Sympathetic to a person affected by poison, or he ran, as soon as he felt himself well and comfortably affected, it would have been bad if he had been of a color opposite to himself rit sight. For the species of color perceived by sight is a fantasy? objected to as a welcome gift piety, whence the expansion of the spirit; and the spirit, being enlarged, is a kind of grat$ carrier, and is itself a humor he goes to the species with a sympathetic handle: From which a mutual marriage of nature, a kind? da results in an affection, or an itchy tingling diffused through all the tissues of the body, from which finally intense pleasure and desire, to unite with the desired object from all sides: figuti therefore suffering from Tarantism, in proportion to the number of high and sharp voices the mixture is proportioned to the poisonous humor, and the like is thus affected, viz having applied the instruments, imbibing the harmony of the same with his ears, as it were, and in himself he perceives the corporeal due to a certain tingle of the harmonics of the reflected air; so in co the sympathetic body is also moved with such ardor at the sight of the smitten re, and to himself for the pleasant affection and tingling of the spirit, which? from which it is made incor For it seems that the poral wants to be transferred to each individual power? Directed by the spirit? objectionable the same etc. Disson's Magic Frontier exactly the same reason, as in fantasy? magnetism is said to be Quiret in this place I have not undeserved any one; gat, red blazes, green, pink, gold pleases? who in? Tar-antismoafect force? ndis and csruleiis, they delight so much, red and glittering completely in the exotic whenever-, rapianr? cùm here can not be prostrated by species. They eat the action because the essence of this has been impaired and diminished be what some call the real, and others the intentional, because between the real and I answer that the species of colors are sensible qualities, and given to the power of action, my friend do not know, however, what qualities ips? from which they are decided. For whoever denies the light, isolate him The heat from the fire, scattered through the air, has the power of heating? The image and appearance of the sun, let it be that heat is the vicarious form of fire, and therefore prevents it less objected by the species than by the proper and natural virtues of the organs of the fenfu change It is added that the poison of the Tarantulas claims this as its own property, for by his condition to incline to this or that color. For humor in the human body so that he is attuned to the imagination, guided by the spirit, and colored by appearance? informed of the matter, it is born. Thus experience teaches us that the red color wonderfully arouses those who are from the analogues of Taran you have been beaten by the law; For the eyes of the monkey are red by a peculiar action, because of the fiery nature of the monkey He would light up his skin and twitch his visible muscles, as he appears in lions and buffaloes; in but with the eyes the greatest strength of the spirits is collected, i. e. these spirits are dilated and of a flaming color fired, the muscles, both visual, and others correcting the rest of the limbs they twitch, let it be that from this twitching some great itch is felt, whence the movement, whom Music promotes much with its harmonic air; Whence man from that object co with the greatest pleasure in the music dancing is taking place. For there is harmony with Your colors, which one? no less than Music and this analogy of harmonies creates the greatest force in exciting the emotions of the soul owns, for from the yellow, the red canule color, the gold and the purple colors of the great harmony, they arise from these two green colors, the most beautiful of all colors, pairing colors when the green of the gold and the crimson are the most agreeable colors, and the most perfect moderated, not otherwise: ac. Diapason consonantia from Diapente Diatessaron com
be placed; for this is the perfect of all things; you move, so he moves his eyes, so nature sees him He seems to have given it for the sole pleasure and recreation of the eyes. .iiiv
Why do those affected by autism lie so often? At the time of the paroxysm, it has often been said that those affected with anxiety assume different behaviors; some soldiers indeed, some commanders and governors, others boxers, some announcers to act. The question is, then, where do these lures come from? For it is certain passions of this kind had not existed before, but these were soon to be found in the instruments of the musicians have perceived the power, to be markedly transformed, as will be explained, It must be noted, some kind of poison, what? in a special way they have the power of imagination, because by force, the fluids in the whole body are raised up into the brain, then the spirit, then the the rest is lessened species conceived in fantasy are excited for the different temperaments of men. Whence it is not surprising if, by the help of spirits, they think that they are infected, which they have fancied themselves. objected to; thus poison brought from dipsade, vt he seems to change into hats, geese, ducks, and frogs. For that is the poison di cx visions because of the intolerable, which arouses the thirst for water With the help of the spirits, having assumed those species to which he inclines, he carefully and laboriously draws the waters for himself, as it were he eats, and rejoices insatiably at the sight and drink of them; that Question that which defies all things aquatic, is usually greatly enjoyed, and consequently r h diseased with fantasy, stimulating to the desired object, and finally injured fantasy, it will be imagined from From time to time the fish, being so feverish, want to be freed haaftUrfitimfestingtiantL On the other hand, the poison drawn from the bite of a rabid dog, naturally to aqažetimoienfmctinatyridìumque the dog makes him imagine continuously. For fantasy in the species of cžsnis rnoi'denti&occupata it is sealed, so that it cannot bear the appearance of water, whence are called No-j fccusde Tarantulasratiocinaberis, since for the nature of the different tarantulas di- versavéhcna fintYdiposos can occur in every humor; from here, poisonous TarautultErexemgr. cholagogic quality, the acrid and biting humor of the same in man) and indeed it excites the same cholic more strongly, but humor having drawn incsrebrumphantalia to that to which he inclines at other times, he incites and here the harmoniolo a sharp percussive dilatation that spreads itself through all the members, stimulating them sharply whence the movements of the humors are excited, the act in which of indignation, ir$, fu Roris, mobility of mind; simiiesq; rationalisanimi paffiones is excited, qu$ enfin euâginat'orum they are more and more promoted by the ruddy appearance of the objects, in regard to the preceding ones; it was said; Cholagogavero is milder in a phlegmatic man I love everything; not otherwise of TarantulishemagopisphleTia? ogis, melanpogis, in man sanguine, phlegmatic, melancholic reason In this way Prophecy and divination of harmonics they can be caused by modules. It is known from the sacred text that Prophecy sometimes happened by the force of musical concerts, and pr- cìpuèlocuslib i-Reg. à where Samuel sent Saul to the flock of the Prophets He was defeated by the King, who had met the hard ones, and before them the psaltery, the drum, and the pipe and he had seen the harp and them prophesying, the Spirit of the Lord fell upon him and prophesied tauitin in the midst of them, parahp. i. cap, rz. son) Asaphat Heman Hispiain ministry-, They prophesied to David on lyres and cymbals. &lib. j. Reg. c. 4 whether singing the psaltery, the hand of the Lord is upon Elipheus, The question then is how Music can have power and efficacy, because it produces such a wonderful effect on man Do you also give them the gift of prophecy? Are you not supernaturally rich? The truth is that you push it more firmly
we shall first explain how we take the prophecy in this place. Prophecy is therefore nothing else than that foretelling of things to come, a prediction, or The secret of God, by which one, when inspired, reveals the secrets of the heart or other mysteries, which is the way of nature where they cannot be done, I have come to see those secret and counsels of God at the end of the breath of the Holy Spirit he knew by his own labor that he should be called a prophet; Prophecy can also be said, while the evil eye rites are performed with the help of many things alien to the human sense, as is done in the energetic, and once in them they stirred with poetic fury; and we are not dealing here with a miraculous prophetic production but from the natural, of which we are asking, whether that Music can really be produced, of which it goes There are many varieties of rice.
By the lithologists, with the greater Colcodcam, the soul of the forms was attributed to the distributive cause they know for from this they say that all the Magi are to be drawn safely, and hence the fact- Indeed, why should Saul become a prophet with great faith, for they think that the soul is a source of rage doing wonders on the steps, he came as if his soul was struck with musical fury, and he himself came out of prison let him transgress the bonds of his brothers without restraining him, and all things be excited by the spirit of the day. to comprehend, to provide for the future. I am resuming many things that are necessary for the pleas to be established It is said to be unworthy, which, while we have referred to other works, to be refuted, here they are longer I didn't want Ltk ri noni Iioitiimus i Nomnfili vosunt toe-ntcm concerto percento warm -harmony of the middle tari, and at once attracted by the beauty of that sweetness, as long as it is remembered, it is so wonderful I reprinted these nonsense elsewhere; -How then did the prophets and the prophets depart from these I think it can result in monic modules, I open. I say therefore that Muîkaip was outwardly taken xat the prophecy of Jesus to the extent that he returns his mind to the truth, and to any other co he calls back to the gyrations, vt is free from all the concerts. nimquan) sefesicsoreseffc, - quam-, vibi tefiuditrejcmatum. exprirnimtstioh that God with that preparation, I had no hope nor dream of anything to return to, nor to inspire my mind need; But in some way he adapts himself to the nature of the things themselves pious psaltery he willed the prophets v, ti, vt mind acf harmony compared. daily flow he would receive him, whom no imaginations, and the rendner of the fleeting; phantasms between they would disturb For apart from the fact that God is harmony, I partake of the influx of the same and, by means of a harmonious concert, he first vowed to arrange for himself the minds of the prophets it shines, that by this harmonious movement of the soul towards God they themselves would come more perfectly, from which vision then followed the movement of the soul into hidden ideas of things to come; For what whoever is more like God through various preparations, so much will he be connected with God, and what He will be infused with the same charisma of so much greater grace; Hence the Saints of God threats, abstracted from perishable things, and by the contemplation of celestial things when we were empty, we passed away with the gift of prophecy. Disposition therefore har nuns only concur to prophecy, not at all effectually, as this effect is all Mu tical capabilities to exceed lo ngè. There are some foolish philosophers of this time, who think that in the air there is a kind of life of all things, or an idea, whether it i. e. the Platonic animals, or the influx of the heavens, or the confluence of the atoms, to which they were reciprocated let there be a communication of affections and concepts, as naturally as some lon They think that they will know themselves afterwards when they are very remote, and so from time to time natural prophecy to generate in the mind of man, as it may appear from here, there is nothing so absurd that it does not have young followers they can, because mortal infirmity cannot grasp them, so the same will be explained after tfyaroy I think that some of the Platonists constitute the cause of this so admirable effect understanding the soul of the world, for they think that the soul of man is awakened by harmony from his tears, like a certain particle, which, while freed from corporeal phantasms,
let him be made a partaker of the same knowledge which she has, for the whole heart, as they say, pus, and so many worlds to be penetrated by that soul, require only this, viz soul: let them be freed from every hindrance, that is, the same as that universal soul I know he knows, through the harmonic vmope of Vniti, let them know each other. c c Vf
True, with this worldly soul, the Platonic doctrine orthodoxy when confronted, he seems to refute himself. There are others who have the power of the whole world in their souls let them include ours, until now that they want to know everything about her, when she contemplates herself, and leaving all externals, he withdraws himself to the center of the mind, some of which are the intellect they deliver the agent from the phantasm, even if he is engaged in this body, regardless of the connection to corporeal species, to be able to understand: and from this they want to be born prophecy. This is true which we have refuted elsewhere, there remains the prophecy of which the Holy Scripture speaks, the psaltery singing, it cannot be done unless it is disjoined; just as God is in many elementary things, as it were with some fire to confer grace on men, The truth about these, let us deal with the like in the magic of the Egyptians, and leave the sector to him. i. i ca- Opinions for the reason—. prop helix Mu V niucrsalii c a p v t v i i. lVir QlàXimoMuficg effect, which she conci- and consequently of the bodies which I speak of to his pammòbeàe, in part, they posliint to benefit he said -ob iYil from me: It must be very doubtful. Music to obtain the greatest power in the bodies of con quoting, while they are ringing? the elders are beaten, while the cannons of war explode how much of the air, the movement of the windows and the towers? those who come so much so that men are astonished, not to say, by the violent sound but we do not speak the truth about the huisinod fonò, but I give to him, with whom some; the matter moved to this sound only, and no other even stronger tur. For one string sounds to the other, and not to the explosion of the bom bardasi mirtini efl For a certain force of sounds is hidden in a certain body sa, thus proportioned, vr she only, non-others warn, in one force, not in others im takes precedence, just as images do not exert their power on wood, lead, or monkeys, but on with similar bodies, so there are certain sounds which are suitable for exciting certain bodies they are, and proportioned j If any one knew what proportion it was, he was without doubt the greatest born He could perform miracles with his help. It happens from time to time that one voice of many people talking makes the bench tremble let him do it, the voices of the rest impressing them in nothing. I also noted with pleasure one of them to have moved the pipe of some organ so keenly as to move a certain string of the cello major, vt The plectrum seemed to be vibrating, and the huge stone was always trembling at the sound then the sure pipes of the organ, but this one kept you quiet, and you were not disturbed by the rest of the sounding Mersennus reports in R. R. P. P. the Franciscans of Paris as well, It is a strange thing, indeed: while the organs sprout a little near the end of the diameter, which ex it is born square, let the limbs be on the side, so be shaken, as if you were to be firmly guarded, lest the earth fall off these things, which, however, are not at all easy, if you either approach the organs properly, or are far from them giušrecedas Hence the most natural arguments are taken, were the solutions of the paradoxes, even though they were constantly moving towards a certain sound to the other, of which it will be given from the profession in the Thaumaturgy of sounds. This code. In agreement with CatadupasTyburtinas annuities some iron neighbor to the house? inferred constantly moving with the sound of a violent river. I have and I in my possession Iychordum, Whose single string, none of the daughters of the neighboring bells is sounded with wonderful force The sounds are animated by the truth of these very things in what follows. Of course there is another reason for this matter it is not, except in proportion to their harmonic commotion of the air, with which everywhere from the body it will be found to be proportionally affected by a similar kind of movement, adeoq; he loves this all at once by experience, which we have produced in the first part of this.
Whence I conclude that if any one knew the proportion, as the sound of any instrument to rites, and the muscles of the arteries of the human body, nothing will be easier for him than to rapture a man into each and every emotion in the forest for a modulating ratio of proportion given, as we said of Ta rantism affected, to excite, if the ancient proportion of sound, that everyone should know the humors of the human body, no tar obstinate evil, and infirmity so rooted, that it is driven away by the force of this sound alone he would read, I assure myself, whereof; mouse But such sounds may be considered in two ways, or as they are proportioned, Or, born out of disproportion, the former harmonics are most salutary for the human body we drank Therefore, we say the opposite of disproportion in human bodies we call a diproborfionate ear, or one who, on account of his vehemence, ap you etc. o&îagia Consoni) Dissoni;
tus is to injure, or it may arouse some painful effect in the body: . As in ve the hesitancy of the thunders, by which many were breathless, and the pregnant also aborted we read Indeed, from the violent sound of the terror, from the terror of the blood from all around such a union at the center, from such a union fear, paleness, weakness! ue spirit, They affect the motor faculty of the organ, and consequently result in a disorder, or inanition. A digression concerning the capture of the fish Psyphia (commonly known as the Spada fish) in the strait of Mamertine is accomplished at the fixed times of the year, Let music itself have some effect on animals. It is strange, and scarcely credible, that those who either did not see this game, or did not see it they did not intervene. except in Sicily, and especially in the sea, in the month of May. in the month, and on the said day early in the morning with the boat prepared for the particular business of the sea they enter what they call Pharo. One among the rest of the fishermen, expert, slave The bow of the boat was likewise prepared for this particular business; occ upat, the other with the words in particular he suggests a fish hidden somewhere; who perceived the simile words, soon, myrtle through the ccrta to say, he stands as if he had been lured, and the fisherman, with a spear in his prow, opportunely slays himself exhibiting it, the spear was cut with the greatest energy and vibration; He makes a parama of the month of Magnatum. since it is out of our scope, I did not concern myself with mentioning it, but how these fishes came to be certain words and particular voices, and not to present themselves to others, I will say; many They thought that those words were made up, and that only such things were known to sailors. Some spring Twice they believed that these fish could be eaten as if by a certain spell. On the day of May, I would cross the Messana, the whole method of proceeding from the fishermen themselves Marnasi di palanti Palletta di paianu
And they will have words taken from the mouth of the fishermen, for their production of fish As if attracted, the boats soon stopped. How, then, does this happen, when many He twisted his characters, it remains for us to explain. It should be noted, therefore, that this effect of attracting the fish can be conveyed through words in two ways himself, physically, or naturally efficient, or paraphysically, by the end of nature, or by agreement something with the devil, either implicitly or explicitly. If the latter, as many think, therefore, if this kind of effect happens, it can be properly referred to among the incantations. We know for many serpents, birds, and wild beasts are under the covenant of certain words They were wont to gather together in one place, enchanted by murmurings. True when in Such, by the agreement of the instituted operations, should take place most of all, and some of them more superstitions, than physical operations, and other circumstances depraved, tem pus, place, position, number of words concerning physical operations altogether
contrary to this, the expert philosopher can easily, too, from circumstantial accounts of this sort ras will distinguish physical operations from superstitions. And certainly for a long time, and for a long time I was by fusion, so-called psychically captured by certain spells, nor, at last looking more deeply into the matter, did I discuss it; operation without any superstition You are depre- 2JS Fniuersalu I was discovered. So I don't know what the efficient physics is under them. That as ex fold I suppose, first, that we have explained in vain places, that every sound is inefficacious. thee brought forward to the sphere in which circumstances, and obstinate bodies to act soon, whose-, some more, some less, when they are less mobile, it becomes vt wherever the sound pro- ordered, "consonant and submissive fell, that's all, innumerable others unmoving vtpotedifprapornonatis, move, vti fuse in the Magic of Conson Disson, and others of this We have shown the work areas. From here, between the strings, there are only a few of them, a single phoneme, or They brought back the oâaua, they will sound, the rest unmoved. From here I was sure to hear some sound of a torch He moves a certain seat, railings, car image, as no other pipe moves can spin By the same token, animals are repulsed by certain sounds, and by others they are offended experience teaches us to be careful. The grunt of the pig is repulsed by all the wild animals, because of its violence fonis delete affects his spirit; in the same way Luscinia muficisob natural force with all its moduli it obtains more force than in an inarticulate sound, for that sound affects more, more powerfully It stirs the imagination of animals, as here. From here I put it on dogs, horses, sheep, and goats They are known by pale names, for when they are called, they flatter themselves, and follow the pale. Cert$ Del- phinus, called by the name of Simon apuero, femper, according to the authors, he bought it. Peter the Martyr, in his book on American affairs, tells of its immense size At the sight of Manati, who was called by the name of Martin, he came out of the waters with his hands He took the food of some of them. Animals are taken by words, not Words of the same kind, and no other, have a force proportionate to their arctic sound to move the spirit and imagination of the animals, who are moved by the sound. In this kind of psychiatry? catch the same thing, for they have only these listed terms this power of exciting the innate spirit and imagination of the animal of this gentle affection, and not of another, as certain and undoubted experience proves. Since that they alone have a proportion, to excite the spirits of the animal, no other being safe, inter men are not all the same Music, but more proportionate to their complexion The same thing must be said about animals. The words, however, are not made up beforehand, but the words are not true, so corrupted by the success of the times, vt aU? can be seen And I think that this is the reason why the psychiatry of the fish agrees with the said words according to the judgment of the philosophers; who, if they have brought anything better, according to their pleas, I am not unworthy I promise to sign it. CAPVT VIII The natural force of herbs, plants, and animals Combined with the music modules, it should gain some power in the care of infirmities. Among the ancient philosophers, Pythagoras, Theophrastus, and Hismenias were absent banus, which John the Baptist followed more and more superstitiously from the more recent times tis Porta, who not only believed, but also tried to persuade many others, Cy the thresher of the wolves, furnished with faith, incited oues astonishment, and lifeless with fear red they also make the skins of elephants, camels, or lupins for the cbnfector of the drums with a sound the horses are driven away, and you make the turtles of the viper or the snake go into a frenzy buses equipped with noise to win pregnant women to have an abortion. I certainly did not intend anything to leave, I made an experiment with the uncountables; For two polychords, one of which of the wolf, he was equipped with the other ouinisides, not without the expense of preparing them; wolves Lt. The Magic of Boundary, Disson.
indeed, the polychord wolf was beaten within the ouile; then both sides were pushed out
but neither the terror of the ears, nor that famous rupture of the strings, from an experience. ' I was able to note the prognathous typhoid by any means; nor did I rest here, the head of the wolf cautiously, [J fi'uhS0ri I put, my heart, and I tied the true wolf to the sheep's neck; led them to the fantastic terrors of the nu- pine which, when they report that the eggs of the same kind have been cut off I have seen him with his eyes no different than a trusting dog, From that time I proposed nothing to believe in any one of these things lation facts? My own experiments would inform me. What is the more secretive philosophy that scrutinizers should use, not so many monfiers porcentis printed volumes would be packed, nor the chairs of the Magisters with so many tales, salted that they were filled with imposture; I consider anything like this unworthy of a philosopher. but I return to the matter at the beginning propofita John the Baptist Porta (which indeed I admire in a wise man) I heard that all the diseases which I have made music can be dispelled, be the diseases called the pipes of plants the natural sympathy of the recuperatives should be made of wood. V. g. be Thyrsis of the Hellebore he would make a pipe, and the sound of it would cure the lymphatics afterwards, for I am a hofce of hellebores it is said to heal the ptum. In equal agreement cx people made a pipe made of a tree. Sciatica trick to soften things with noise, for the people of the century are most useful for pain I had thus heard that Venus was incited, who would destroy the building of the Satyrs la; to treat the disease, fiuelypothimia, an instrument made of cinnamon bark as well as a musician. By equal agreement, a pipe constructed from the legs of a thousand, Larks, and so on the birds, oh, the antipathies, are immovable to return the force. Time would fail me, become a single command I would like to bring you the deliriums of the bed, and the stories of dreams trembling, so to speak, is dyed with the lips of a philosopher, who has nothing at all to do with Does he not see that he has a relationship? If so? things have the healing power of some of diseases, to cure it without the aid of any sound, by natural application, they can exercise; Moreover, I argue, or for the harmonic sound guarantees these things made, or the medical force implanted in the material of the tube, or both at the same time. If, then, it is superfluous there will be a force attached to it. or a farmer, and then the sound of the eumesse what is to be performed, while it is done in vain by more, what can be done by fewer, thirdly, this will be done, either because the sound conveys that fanatizing force by the manner of a vehicle, or by a certain sympathy resulting from the new union of the three neither can, or should, be admitted. Not the virtues of nature they should have sufficient capacity to change and alter objects within their How iphaera constituted, abfq; vlla nonayficulieam feréteis necessary acquisition. add fintbfa- that when the intentional nature of the sound is completely used for riding, something else becomes inept, as I was born with. to himself a m long and wide propaganda air vehicle needs, certainly to give that, what it lacks, the other cannot, that is, the fi vehicle can be replaced by the flow of forces into it conveying something else, nor can a ninth sympathy result from this, since the power of the sound is hidden, with the innate vigor of a natural thing, let them have essences that are much disputing, and neither fint nationals capable of cheaper impression; They are falsified anywhere around this node they share the malevolent characters of men, nor do they sympathize cusest, or the cause of the reciters, but the harmonious air of the spirit, for the various names rousing the law of dew. Paitim'igitur refers to the glass pipe with which the Shepherd softens the ewes, ex It is made of elderberry, flax, or extibijslupinis, and in both cases the sound of the pipe will be caught. Pari ra It was not necessary for the Theban Hifnvenia to flee from the pains of the coxendic with a populous instrument vti, or Thyrfis hollow Hellebore adfanandoslymphaticos Xe for they were able to produce it by means of any suitable material constructed.
whereas Music cures diseases by no other quality, except that which disperses the gross spirits, xat, laxed, fubtiliat, old-nosed, depressed by the melancholic fumes he relieves, and after removing the causes of disease restores health; they are also to be laughed at
who How healthy muscle? by spirit evil dream rie freed JQ
oMusurgUFmuerfalid who want to cure the plague-affected lyre? so no, because wine, vinegar, and laurel forbid pestilence; Stolidè also from Thyrsus The Satyrij constructed a pipe to arouse Venus, but for chastity the same was made of wood Vine, or Amicasti, they think constructed, with each, you are true to unchastity, and both also to chastity, if you are chaste, and moderate in manners you will be excited. Therefore only that harmonious air, affected by similar harmonic rhythms, so prodigious: why should it be said? For a musician, a harmonious rhythm is a match the air, the air here informed by the same harmonic rhythm, communicates it through the auditory power to the spirits, the spirits finally being excited by this harmonic rhythm, the to various affections, of love, of happiness, of sorrow, according to the quality of the motion, they excite, from the motions but a fusigine is born, that is, the power of succulents, which occupy the vital members, is dissipated that by which causes, or causes of diseases, it is necessary to obtain the intended health; And from these it is clear how Saul, possessed by an evil spirit, modulating- David was soon restored to himself; For when Saul came out of his sorrow and sadness with much humor (Acu it is evident in the demonic, frenetic, energetic) vaporous rites would be dispersed, and would be degraded: the fog of the mind would be dissolved, by which I That evil demon also, clothed in his proper seat, was driven out, Whence soon mental composition and tranquility. But this was perhaps more than equal. Why this? the prodigious cure of diseases by music suffices; Those who are more curious to know more, about the harmony of pulses, the syndrome of spirits, and surprising sympathy or antipathy of man to man, whether you are the same consonance and dissonance of natures, com of plexions, among the diverse men of the shining, let him go to Iatrice or Medicine, in harmony and dissonance, where he will find much new and hitherto unknown material about it. THE MAGIC CONSONANCE. AND A MVS1CA. P A R S TER AT O LOG I s I V E ON THE SOUND OF C A P V T I On the definition and distribution of the prodigious phone. ;0 N V S prodigious is nothing else, than a certain unusual sound ad something to be signified, which, while striking the ears violently, nor do the hearers know the cause of it; It is of a threefold kind, natural, preternatural, supernatural, fine mi- rake. To the miraculous sound belongs that great sound, which perorant Christo John sprang up suddenly and filled all the hearers with great astonishment; such is the Music of the Angels at the Nativity of Christ; such was the sound on the day of Pétecosse next to it. Acts Magia Finini) Dijson.
In the Acts of the Apostles (it is satta, find out from Calosoma that the crucifixion of the spirit of the dead) of the mind }taks(unt the sound of the Holy Scripture mcmmorated here and there, the sound of trumpets in the mountain Sinai) while Moses received the law from GOD.
C A P V T I. On the fall of the walls of Jericho to Ioni tu m
followed by trumpets. SU'
these ij; The prodigious sound of the trumpets and the elan of the people on the walls of Erechun ca whether he caused it physically, or miraculously, it is disputed from Rabbi Ralba at first he thinks that the vehemence of the fone had fallen upon them in which sentence, they themselves SS. The fathers were viz. St. Augustine ser. io6. de time; henceforth he said to the city of Jericho and his walls to the cry of the people, and the sound of the trumpets, and drowned him D. Hieronymus epist. to Abigail, they fell, says Jeri cho Sacerdotalium tubarum subuersiclangoribus the same asserts D. Ambrose lib.
chap. i o. Origen homil. 6 Mersennus among the recent mouths thinks that they are absolutely violent Qu how ingenious they were, how true they were, we do not dwell on them, but we briefly that they fell with a rake at the sound, or as a sign of the divine will, naturally (whatever Mersennus may say) they could not have been moved, so I prove it. None at all huge, intense, and multiplied by the people, and the sound of the walls, and the mass of the village naturally he alone can throw down or move, which I thus show to the sound of con these three run, first of two bodies, of solid, or as if solid, collision like air, or a similar body between the two intercepted, breaking, and crushing. Ter the breaking up of this body, the dissociation of the shattered body, and the flight and retreat of it as it were. And even this is by which it can be moved and pushed; for while thus he flees, and retreats, if qu$ bodies meet, he strikes them, and as he can, he pushes them forward, and indeed the neighbor first that the shell stirs the air and propels the wind; because bodies would otherwise be given penetration: and the air is very easy to receive motion, as if spontaneously, removed but he did not fend off, because the rush of that fugitive would gradually weaken, thus; go forward and he ceases to push it is necessary to be first let it be greatly broken, broken, and thrown out; fecundum, vt do not exile anything, and let it be good for you, but should have a larger quantity. For if he fails first, the flight is halted on the spot, not even by himself At the beginning, the statin moves the strong nearby air you, and longejlâtèque, the voice of the air will restrain you, and neither will you push forward as he can; He adds, moreover, that the power of even the greatest phonons is small m in a free environment, such as the open fields are, and what you make of the waste that surrounds us, the air where the sun goes and dissipates, it does not reach the ears of most of the Philosophers who are a little more distant a true and real sound, but only an appearance, or a simulacrum they had asserted
For if the sound had this power, it would already be in the conquest of Vrbis, and no other ram busses and catapults would be needed more than unwieldy men, horses, drums, and trumpets with the sound of cannons. Where we have said in the preceding part, the sound of ma obtain great power in certain things, by moving them, as when the sound of an organ I would make a stone, or a statue, or something like that, I would not understand that, except in relation to harmony you will be excited, for even a single small pipe can move a huge one. a mass, which, however, systulre the elders did not remind the said tube: not Io- who was greatly moved, but of that which is said to move the monsoons another body proportioned to itself, not unlike one chorus I will give Walls îer'cho by a miracle break the light run How funds mo let 2jM Wednesday, you said to move the other 4am. For if in the white polychron meffse t l ž string, some of the first, and v}type are ispcon$, that is to say how hard "Wa moved the other, " but the boss of the others warned the other of the strings it can be done, even if everyone is excited. You see, therefore, that every body moves another, not the vehemence of the air, but what is the appropriate and harmonic movement of the same movement? then be required As regards the gentleness of the tefiimony of SS. I am referring to the fathers mentioned a little earlier no cx SS. Patbu. s thought that the only natural. tinos tiitóroscedidHTé, Kd from a sign, which was polished by Himself, or by the ministry of Angels Yihem was destroyed and laid waste. The sound of the fall of the walls of Jericho remains that the cause of the trumpets was not natural, but altogether miraculous -sdki ciniddiiH x3 nùìi3Uoifni uatraa usi: c A P v T I i I. .rjqc: n! mw iuOEn fiupm
Of the portentous sounds of the second clams, that is, those from the agent they touch every one naturally, but by a greater human force.
j necprorfhs seem to have a natural power, fed, veiling Angels, or good Genii, either they become good or evil through malice. jivjMit: - J Jh
A strange story about a certain Magician, with the sound of fazein: vh children
No Christi4do above what can be said is a wonderful incident of Hamelia infe a town of Saxonia situated near Visurgi; History goes like this In the year, huge walls, iuiT. , were infested with trains and trains, and evil in so far would grow, for nothing would bear fruit, sowed, that there would not be a shrew on the dew he would find a host, and therefore they would remove various things from such an intrusive and pernicious evil therefore the plans were discussed; in the meantime a certain unfit man crept before her, and stood for digiosa comparine; who immediately removed whatever mice were in that district rum, provided they bargained with him for a certain amount of money, he promised; said done With the promised reward, the said man drew out of the bag with which he was girded, a pipe, a mullet, and so on rang out, behold, huge walls from all the corners of the houses, the eaves of the roofs, bus, the columns bursting through the holes of the gates, that unusual Auledi so do they follow to the river? Aulzdumibi, who had gathered up her clothes, was entering the river zfonoat-sorices followed vnaibi all voluntariafubmerfionuntur are extinguished; man after finishing drawn lamentingly asks for the promised surrender they were to be paid, he shouted at the little menaces, if they would give the snow a reward, the future would come out in another way he would bring a much greater reward than promised; I received mine with a smile; But the next one that day, about noon, the said man appeared again, in the habit of a hunter, with a terrible countenance, pur pure unusual: with a cap of composition, and a flute of another length from the former two rang out, behold, all the poets of the whole town, from four years to twelve they were followed by a prodigious sound; But it is outside the town at the bank of Visurgis in the village te a kind of large fot suitable for stables of cattle; Into this cave and the hunter led all the boys. And from that time there were no children appeared, and there was no recollection of what was done when they were young, where they had gone. this By such a wonderful event, the whole town was left to his widowed sons, and he counted his years. It is usual for our children to leave this day. I was also in the same mountain I saw the history, and the minute picture exhibited in Ecclefia with the greatest admiration.
temple Lih. IX Magia Conson, DiJoni.
I was drunk; It is then asked who was the sound of the systul# so much power? year There is no doubt that it was Damon who, fascinated by the secret judgment of God, led the children to another place He has transferred part of the world; For the Chronicle of Transyluani# testifies, about the same time unknown in Transylvania; language, that the boys suddenly appeared, who were fixing the seat They have so advanced their language, that to this day the Transylvanians have none but German They speak Saxon. See many similar prodigious sounds in John Eusebius Nuremberg, Cornelius Gemma, and others. C A. p V T GV. Of the prodigious sounds of the bells. Nfter cceteras the bells making the world beautiful with a prodigious sound, the first of course was a joke obtains that Bell Vilill# a continuous Hifpanite miiaculum of which Varius thus writes the book i. on the fascination of chap. In the kingdom of Hilpan, in a town called Vililla For a few months, something happened to me in the Christian Republic, except for myself he is beaten by no one pushing; The testimony of which is by the public records of the witnesses having been employed by several people, I read with these eyes what I have said about the same of that Kingdom Progressus they were making letters. Our Mariana describes her in these words. Thirty-six miles below Vrbe Cassaraugusta is a small town on the banks of the Iberia, from the ancient Ro- jnanoru m established in the Illegertibus Coloni# ruin, and no matter in this storm ar whose memory is more noble than that of Bell, who, without warning, was unusually insolent; I signaled to the nobles going to each side by the pulse that these men were convinced;
I do not dispute whether it is foolish or true; However, the eyewitnesses of this miracle are cited as not insignificant men. They say that the Bell was rung of its own accord on the day before the day on which the Kings were captured. Again to the third Kalend. Nouem. & the nearest January of the ninth month, the third time that it sounded at the time of the treaty of Milan with Aragon he was restored to liberty; moreover before the death of Philip II, and several times in these last times, as a witness of Nuremberg The older witnesses, with every exception, heard it struck, similar to the bell of the Lapland is, which; whenever in a great kingdom: seditions and tumults arise, he is beaten of his own accord; for nothing John Lupus, Bishop of Monopol, reports that the bell tower in the Camoren Monastery if the Fathers preached three days before the death of a Religious of his own accord, the usual pul sari, even if no one was lying on the bed at that time; The same author betrays the likeness of Campa that there was nothing in the Monastery of St. Dominic of Cordoba, that the sound of the glass or of that Brother Convention], or a distinguished man of the same order carried the fate. Like dey another Bell# in the Conobio Salernitano of the Dominicans died with a wonderful sound Angelus Rocha repeated the pronouncement of the towers. Gibellinus's Life of St. Menulphi in Germa nia in the Monastery of Bodkensi Bell in the same way spontaneous beat of some Nun it means death. There are also other instruments of music that sound of their own accord, while they are of a certain kingdom imminent danger, so at the Sepulchre of St. James of Compostela, he declared that there would be seditions rant war instruments noise s; Some important victories of the Catholics against the infidels, viz. the collision of the bones of Ferdinando Gonzali, of which see Nuremberg. I could add in this place innumerable examples of prodigious sounds, but there are many more He longs for this kind of thing; Gesippus Joseph phum designispr#uijsexcidijhierosolymitani. Cornclium Gemm in cofmocriticis, otherwise It remains to be inquired how that sound is produced; Certainly not natural to be, pr#ter nature, therefore, it is harmful to touch him; I say, therefore, that these are prodigious the sounds are caused, with the help of the Guardian Angels for the merits of some Saint, who with due to certain circumstances and reasons known only to GOD, as well as to the imminence of some evil kingdom, itch Wtusurgia Vniuersalti prxuidendàveluti obtained a singular privilege to God; They touch the tameru. from time to time also by the illusion of the Dgmons, as it used to be done in lo nini gracu with the prodigious ropes, of which read our hieroglyphic Oedipus in the Treatise on or even, from time to time, it was attacked by hostile localities, of which Delrio&Ty- consult the king; the prodigies of such sounds are far beyond our institution having set the goal, leaving the cossons to be described, who, although they are natural, yet no one Let us meet to see their cause well enough. G A P V T V. Of the hidden sounds of certain m causes, viz. of the formidable fonituspeluncaeSmellen in Finland. Let us just look at that terrible cave of Finland, how beautifully lib. c. z. Sept. History? describes Olaus the Great. It is near the coastal town of Viburg the neighboring lands of the Muscovites; where? his secrets? It is safe for animals to live in it I guess, the sound excited in her the terrible intensity of the ears placed so close suffocate, vt neither hear, nor speak, nor stand, much more; He strikes the most powerful bombards with this power, so that he weakens the veil in a moment, so that he can scarcely fight for himself they stand But neither does this nature? The prefect of the earth orders the ears of all to be closed with wax, the cellars of the cellars; they will live hidden and demi fe munies, some animal or rope or spear suspended in the osspelux fell Whence so horrible a sound is immediately raised, as if the enemy were besieging them all round the cattle to be slaughtered are slipped, and when they fall they remain for a long time to be plundered. To himself, indeed On their return, they no longer intend to fight, but to take counsel with the flight of the vine. And it happened that they cannot be restrained by the might of warlike fury, but only by the horror of such a roaring nature
besotted, deincantur Moreover, he asserts that this cave is surrounded by several walls at a reckless approach. The surprising dangers of avoiding teeth, surrounded by To be pitiful, indeed, with the same witness and experience Do you want to hear examples of disaster? having lost many thousands of his people to the foreign enemies of Ruthenia, Fmhndiz! " the Sieris once left. Pliny tells of a similar cave in Dalmatia with a vast gap. the peat, on which a light weight is thrown, on any calm day, flashes like a hurricane cell Peter the Martyr tells of a similar cave in the island of Hispaniola America, as well as hor rendi fonitus, and such a terrible storm was constantly following, vtad no one miles away it with impunity, that is, without life, or at the risk of deafness. The cause of this so prodigious sound, if what Olaus reports is true, is no other than the The cause of the formation of the inner mountain of the tural tattoo; where? sound from an infinite reflection of the voice, made multiplying, it excites the air, and the excited air can have no other outlet, except through the fo: amen, and the orifice of caution that such a terrible sound should be raised with the violence of the storm; Audio in Hel Something similar is to be found in ancient mountains, especially in the mountain which Cucumeremà figure they call, at the top of which a deep chasm can be seen, through an opening in the interior A rock thrown from a mountain, or a single stone, arouses such violent sounds, that the bystanders cry out it only inspires fear; but the violence of the outgoing wind forces the quarrel. For it is the wonderful power of the closed mountains in multiplying the sound, which experience teaches us, deeper wells; Is it Fuld? in my Country on Mount Beat? Virgin's well that having a depth of about fathoms, in which a stone thrown only makes a sound it arouses, as if the explosion of a military cannon can be seen. I remember observing the same in Mon Does it bother you? Liparitanx, therefore I think the cave is not at all legendary that Olai, when here and there the prodigies of this world are passing through the world; In the spring with which we will reserve the wonders of the mountains in the subterranean world, that Reader We let the curious go. ca- Luke The magic of Conjon Disson. C A P V T V I. A prodigious attack on certain shores Bothnian Sea Olaus the great, while dealing with the highest waters of the Bothnian sea, also remembers The roots of the prodigious literal caernal sonorities are attributed to no one because of the sound that the violence could not approach, for only from the deep collision of the waves the horror-, they perceive that, unless they had escaped by boat or by a strong wind, they would have perished only by a little more let them be me; And they have the bases of the said mountains to return to the entrance of the waves some tortuous openings, and internal receptacles, a structure of astonishing natural workmanship those in which that terrible sound, like a subterranean noise, was heard in a long abyss narrates, the cause of which, seeing that a number of them were sometimes unconscionably scrutinized, they attacked, so- Immediately the sailors, filled with water, lost their lives with astonishment; But that sound was fatal falling upon the ears of the sailors for many miles, he warns the saddest thing: the trap of chatter to escape at a distance, as they are unable to bear when placed in close quarters; Vin tells of a similar mountain centius Bellouacensis in these words: Among the Tartars there is a certain small mountain, on which fo It is said that there is a certain ramen, since in the Irish season there are so many storms of winds, they emerge, as if men scarcely yonder, and can pass only in manifest danger. Whose Indeed, the cause of the matter is no other than a hidden one: the catadupte of subterranean waters; as a fuse we will demonstrate in our subterranean world, from the cave of Hispaniol above the memo rate is clear.
Pausanias relates the shore of the Egi sea, the sound of the cytha zmulari, surely no other reason If not from the various formations of the rocky shores, they would have resisted the onslaught of the rushers receiving and multiplying sounds, listening at a distance, I do not know what harmonics present For the size and smallness of the caerna are the same in the production of sound. that the sounding hollow bodies, such as the size of the disputing barrels, no one can present
I do not think there can be any doubt. Whence and another difficulty is solved concerning the prodigious sound, while on the distant coast of the Quatomalensis sea, new Spain, near the Euro, was perceived as blowing Laetius reports in his History of the notion that the phonetif was so close to the organ of our traditions mulari, vt in need he calls him the Choreia of the Gods, for which indeed there is no other reason for the matter it is but mountain channels of different sizes, in which the air is driven by the sea the caernasintract and constipated by the illiteracy made at the mouths of the canals, the same as every day He is variously agitated by the shores, the canals, and the bodies exposed to the wind. To these we will add that he tells a wonderful story about certain British and Persian mountains Clement of Alexandria, book Stromat in these words; [But those also say who con they wrote histories, that in Britannia Island there was a certain cave under the mountain, in and the eaves is a gap: but the low wind falls into the cave and is torn in the bay by the ditches; Can the sound of cymbals be heard? they will be beaten in numbers. however, when you are on the island with what; the leaves are moved by a sudden and dense attack of the spirit, and the sound of the birds' song is heard similar Moreover, those who composed the Persians in the places that were in the region of the Magi more men, they report that three mountains are placed forward in the field of the logo, the first sound to eat as if they were crying out for not a few thousand people, likewise if they were in ae re: But when they come to the middle, they make a greater and more evident noise at the same time to tear: at last, indeed, to hear at the end singing Pa: ana just as those who had won; Whose and this is the cause of the sound, I think, when the spirit enters quietly, it sounds more violently when proceeding to the same place. ] If true, they are, which: Clement reports about the British mountains; surely the cause of that prodigious phone it cannot be other than the greatness of the disputing channels of snow-covered mountains Whence arises such a disposition; For the cave of the mountain is subject to the concept of wind im- Gg z sends Horrible word leaning on the shore in the sea Nico You are amazing sion months yours in Persia VÌVA tffyiujurgirt ViìiuérsalU sends it into the canals, where it is more closely confined, and at the orifices it emits long sounds, just as we said about the Quatomaienfis mountains. A triple truth is murmured in disagreement, that Clemens should build the three Persian mountains it matters, that it must be referred equally to the arrangement of the mountains; Najti exfccitusfiue Caraua- what? the roar of a passer-by, reflected there, and a varied reflection within the hollows of the mountains lest, being multiplied, when the murmur of a passing army reports, the tumult is not surprising to perceive the roar of your army. But the reflection of the second mountain is reflected in the first the sound you direct, the reflection of the tranfeutis Carauanie f? to cù twines with the roar; no wonder there is a greater commotion to be heard. But the mountain of Tettius, because of its nature, is more remote he took care of the arrangement of the pillars, something similar to the choir singing the Paean they are not surprised, that the prodigies of the preceding sounds have been more carefully contemplated. C O R O L L A R I V M. inc. a huge parabolically hollowed rock is visible at o. paces under this voice to return afterwards, such as P. loannes Paes describes in his History of the Abyflines in racuulnspe mountains Goya ma? to be found. There are huge rocks in these mountains that in with which it is made to appear like a mirror to those who look at it from afar. To this, he said, another rock opposite torio! audl" at the top of which it is necessary to say that nothing has been submitted to any extent, since it is not regulated But as they were crying out in the said place, I heard Jonah approach, as the voice of some army to be seen; do they know the hidden nature of resonance? the power of the sacrifice of that place, which is like the faith of the gods they show that men placed on the top of the mountain have secret words of this kind about the matter they warn of the coming bus; but when they were inspired by the voice of God, they not infrequently reached great heights Calamities unfold, they rush more imprudently than they are caught. Where? if true flint I would have believed that this could not be done by any other reason, except by the object of a parabolic figure-
given by nature, where in a certain region the point of the rock meets the confluence of the ant From this many things are resolved by the Historians, which? from the majority for fables, above stations were held here and there. Narrat Herbesteinius in the Province of Candora last Sep- no mbHisto be the temtrionistera of the river, which due to the frequency spectrum subindècom obey, & voices In the Ruthenians, men and animals were accustomed to be heard there on the opposite bank, but no one had yet crossed rit, he also said that hardly a day or a week should slip away, especially at the time when this God prodigiously let the voices not be heard. I am sure that there are no other portents here as of men, and the true voices of the baboons rising in the plains beyond the river, and Reflected by the mirrors of the caves of the deepest rocks, where? in banks established simple, in When men have experienced this vain fear, and panic, they flee with a kind of fear; can it be easier to impose on minions, than to make fun of this kind of nature? talkativeness Gat- The case of extra Danish lib. He tells a similar story about a certain deception of a family member. Who- wandering I will give, said he, our friend, when he was traveling by the river, and did not know the ford, to cry out he began, Ohi answered with an echo. Oh, thinking that he is a man, he asks Yes- licè: Whence dcuo passar. i is answered: then he who is replied. But deep down there so the gushing of the water made a great noise; Vndeille, frightened, asks again, Detto passar quii Echo respondetipasja qui i Cui fgpius to the same questioner, he answered the same thing. What friend would be between the fear and the necessity of swimming, and the dark night, the storm was raging, Damon wanted to persuade someone to him, as if he had pre- He thought that he would fall: wherefore, returning from thence, he told the whole matter to Cardano, who did not Dae the plot of the warning, not the illusion of a phantasm, but of the nature of a joker? it was a game by itself he pointed out. Such a nature? the portent of feiitiasquoq; Syracuse in the ruins of Pa lati) of the Dionysians, in which, in a kind of receptacle, nature reflects the sounds so aptly, that nothing I can remember that I have heard nothing more wonderful in such a matter. There is much in this passage about prodigy they would be said by the reflection of the voice and the sounds, but with this all will be dealt with in the following We will reserve, here Teratology? putting an end to it, we proceed to Echophophy. part Phonoc'amptic magic.
P A R S I V PHONOCAMPTIC MAGIC S I V E About reflexes? of his voice, of his wonderful works, and of his effects. .A myjbnu l. u bnt'îjpta. n P R AE F A T I O
Echo what? Description nature c H the playful nature of the joke A d The image of the poet's voice, according to that of Virgil The rocks are sounding, varijfq; ofsensfresiikat image d Philosophers reflected, re smitten, reciprocated, is said by the Hebrews of the voice i Whose that matter It is hidden in nature, and there is hardly anyone who can explain it. You are indeed known, and that the voice is reflected in common bread, but how, ex with which, with what propagation, with what speed, the distance is to be effected, so much so you are gnitus, like anything else; nor does it seem that the vastness of the difficulties met with in any way can be exhausted, except by Jello, who has the greatest experience and singular energy At last he discovered this fugitive nymph, outwitted by his wonderful arts, because no one had come here until he had done it, I, with his longing, had sought out the hidden secrets of the asylums, the forest, the mountain and the hidden shelters, valleys, ruins, plains, and swamps hidden, I left nothing unintended by which I could reach the nature of my secret; Let me sit down! while I pursue he sucks, while I flee he pursues, while I speak politely, he eludes politely, while he is very but, as if he were to hear the voices of his followers, he did not know how to fall, but from time to time he was bundfl's answer auérsasubterfuges; sometimes to a single word, chattering deeply solenttdecem he returns to another, therefore, deluded by the variety and inconstancy of this hedge, which with songs, in which, with all kinds of musical instruments, the most fugitive of the asira should be stopped I tried to appease him by all means, in order to flatter him. but
she was so accustomed to solitudes and solitudes, that she did not know how to protect herself, easily eluded all my efforts, the count at last joining me to Geometria Anacamptica, once more fiercely attacked Geometria he, whose sagacity I was at last proud of, would stop himself, and fully satisfy my wishes. 0uid hminue- therefore, in my various journeys, I had stopped in various places around it, following this curious Lestor. You have been seen to communicate in a way, and as a reader I know the immense and clearness of sounds scat randarum i And first of all we will prose the new principles and canons of the phonocamptic art cundo Architestonic phonocamptic or echometric art, from the most penitissimus nature let's unlock the secret. 'Thirdly, with the Echotesian end, and use the device of these instruments, which we call the Phonocamptic Catoptrica, we will produce; which indeed, nothing is forthcoming That joyful Catoptric Magic is contained, that it cannot exhibit phonocampic, for many months push, and perhaps we will demonstrate a finding not to be despised. And although it is clear that the old man he was the first, as far as I know, who wrote about echometry, in which I am clearly distinguished fler os merited praise J us following his footsteps, yet delivered by him the least contented, we know. raising his spirit to higher heights, always new and new inventions of various kinds opening, we have endeavored to reach this level of Echosophia, which science is responsible for founded, so known to a few, seemed to demand its right to be veiled. I do not doubt that Kings and Princes have prostituted themselves. You have prepared these things, you make the magic of the ancients in the exhibition of whose sounds, all the stu they are to be established by God. But, leaving aside the detours of the whip, let us proceed to the matter itself; And let us proceed more solidly in our Echospbia, first, after the usual manner of Geometries, with the definitions The axioms postulates were seen to promise, vt the norms of the art of processing in all things
sMuJwrgì& Vnìuersalii D E F I N ITI O N E S, x yr Agia siue Art Phonocamptica ed the science of reconditiorsonorum, qua by the power of the voice the prodigious and the ignorant of the miraculous ejfcftuspra Bam it is nothing but a reflection of the Greeks and then another Echo vo Cant.
b if the phonic center is said to be punflum from which Imea tmttum they lead to point A in the following figure. ibuvti&iixmMy is the last point in the line phonocampticadn that the reflected voice He listened to his ears. for they are the centers of BO V CE. We call this phonocampic medium the medium through which sound is propagated. It is a phonetic line, either sonorous or vocal, along which the voice goes and returns, such as in fi gura is A B. and is multiple; vt follows. The line is that sonorous net through which the voice flows from, vti are all the normal sounds of the body reflected from the wall; in the shape of it carries the line AB, and reflects the normal ray of light. Linea Aeowos, is called a sonorous line obliquely falling into the opposite wall, and lub code 2nu lo reflecting, vti in the figure is the line OS &CD; and it is fourfold or for Lib. Phonocamphtic magic,
since it is reflected in the high from the bottom as C D from C and is called anophone, that is fuprasonora; ve] catophona, that is, downward sounding, reflecting from high to low, vt EF from AE. or right it is reflected to the right as VX, or to the left as OS. A phonetic triangle is all that is formed by an orthophonic line with the distance of the center of reflection from the normal point, such as ABC, or ÂBE. The line of action is the whole length of the sound line within which it is perceptible. The phonoptotus angle is the angle to be cut, which the sonorous line with the objec- which makes the phonocamptic, viz. the angle ABC. or the angles AOB, AVB, AEB. is the phonocamptic angle, which is the reflected line with the phonocamptic object established, such as the LCD screen, or SOR, PEF, XVQ z The angle of confusion of the phone, is the angle of two conic or cylindrical phonemes
caused by intersecting ceisle Polyphonism is the multiplicity of the voice reflected in various ways in the corican body. nism is nothing else than the act of spreading the sound spherically, conically, or cylindrically, iyl ParabolicuraT Parab. l. object phonocampt. Hyperbolicù )est corporiscocaui jHyper. l. surfaces.
J Ellipticum J J Eiiipt. j Acoustic organs are instruments which, applied to the ears, produce many loud voices They have the power to fold. The phonoclastic body, within which the sound is refracted, is called phonoclase but it is the very refraction of the voice. Axioms Hypotheses Mnis angle pbon optotos efl aqualis anglephonocamptico, fiue that it is the same om is the angle of incidence of the water angle of reflection. Every phonic center radiates a network of flueson lines into the world. Nature in sound does not reach the smallest limits of its lines. All this can only be heard, which can reach the sonorous line. Sound by multiple reflection in. one is intensely focused on the radiant. Every reflection sounds either inward or in the opposite direction. The more slowly the voice stops in the ears, the more distant the Anacamptic obituary, the more quickly the closer he was. The sound is measured by the flow of d linesonora. Required: Data.
ff in obieffophonocampticopunffo any one in which the reflection takes place, the reflected line J. to determine From every obeffepunffo, to every punff reflection conflict ui potefl. Physiological Prejudice? of the nature of Echus, or reflected? voice P R A E L V S I O I The sound is Monkey Light. The burden of vti, as shown in the first book, is nothing else than a perceptible quality. that which can be perceived by hearing, is not the movement of bodies, as some think colliding: yet the sound of the motion of the bodies colliding with each other follows, not why immediately What happens to So a nut To the t-string collision two rum body solid rum rum not—i l'empcr is necessary Atjlia fubie- It's the sound of it. Fish they say he said not so fin good sir eyM ustrgìtC Vniuersdlii
immediately) but by means of a fraction of the intermediate air); whence the bodies which they had pieties of air, and of brass, they are allotted the greatest power of sounding, because air is more in Jarni, and in brasses it is broken by bodies, such as in non-airy and thick bodies; whence not scraper also to lonu two solid bodies colliding with each other are necessary; but the air and water impulses sound instead leading most aptly, vtfistulx, and the roaring of the sea, and the thunder and luculently teach; when it is broken and thrown from the sharp collision of any bodies, a sound is made, because at the point of the neck sion does not follow, and the appearance of the colors is diffused, radiating into the grass, for the color of the challenged things emit their species, or vicarious objects, by means of radiation everywhere, thus sonuspe; - his age Further, the medium of sound, by which its species are conveyed to the auditory, are not su- a barrage of sounds; but air, water; And there is indeed no doubt about the air, about the water ex experience also informs us. for the fishes are wont to congregate by a certain noise Pliny relates. The same Plinius, who was accustomed to be called by the name of Pifces it matters; and the thunder was so violent that if it did not happen, he would hear the snow under the waters. The divers, too, had begun to perceive more violent sounds under the waters, and so much so easier, the less they have been away from the surface of the waters: which is a manifest sign, Io whether through air-porous bodies, such as water, wood, and walls, to the pctcntion. ;imdo to penetrate the hearing. Water, then, is the medium of sound: though much more liquid, and easier aiìfj direct sounds are transmitted through air, rather than through water, just as a ray of light is to me and reflected to the denfius, in which it is refracted, and thus has a sonorous ray in a denser medium the air is also refracted; aqiia, tudine, vt species visible in the middle of the denfiore when we hear of him defecating. In the Halls, too, the voice of the peripetasmatic fratri,
born, it is perceived more difficult to absorb the loan, than when the walls are stripped of carpets. From here also nnn, ra fin reason is deduced, why in a place full of people the music languishes, because it is absorbed within. He destroys the human body. Thus the hall is covered with wool or straw says the sound, as if hardly perceived. Of which more in what follows. With these prtemisfis, the sound of the light of the Monkey, that eftinomnibusoperationibvisfeielu to emulate him, it is only to be observed, which I am doing. Note first the sound of vir- 'rutisftiX to bring about a sphere within which he alone is perceived; outside of the truth it is never but this sphere cannot be made except by straight lines from the sound frame through the middle of the ve wide from the center and diffused in all directions, it is established that the radiation of sound flows out luminous then it changes closely, and there is no other difference between us and Sotiou. neo, htec is propagated by successful movement through the air. Virgil himself sees a certain kind of esielumen and sound while he says The fire is heard to turn louder. Sicilia Iib. V is&que cane-s barking through the shade Indeed, nothing can meet the eyes; quo. d under a kind of analogical approach to the ears parallel-, he cannot stop himself. Therefore it is certain that light is proper to repnefent those who are distraught. comparing the }ores of C0rp0rUm according to the different directions of the rays now incident, now reflected form ctions made to the surface, and hence to the eyes; thus it is proper to represent sounds the different qualities of the bodies moved by the help of their sharp striking surfaces that; so that it is not incongruous that we may say that colors are in fact nothing else but different the immersion and reflection of the rays in the medium; just as sounds are nothing else as the different motions of the air; he would see some muffled instrument resounding; surely it is nothing but a picture he would see outlined in a remarkable variety of colors, with which his eyes diverged the qualities of these bodies, as it has been said, were Pnrterea, vti light abstractly con the stars are inviolable, so is sound: for nothing in this world is above the snow we can look: but the ineffable light of the fates and above show the mirrors con- because they leave no trace of the rays, the snow at the point of convergence of the rays to In imitate the sound there is light using an opaque reflecting body; nay, if we speak more strictly, I mean no accident, no ac. sis gives an extension, the end of which is a point, and nothing would go away. Vtiigiturlumen end air eniWe it is invisible, and so is sound, which renders the hard air perceptible to us, more than many to the body it manifests the qualities of rum, which we do not know how to recognize except by the aid of sound: and if some few If he looked deeper into the nature of light, he would discover that it is nothing else than what it is tired of the movement of the air, which has become the image of the first mover, the body of light you must stop it with your eyes under the name and appearance of color or light. Yes, the sound it is nothing else but the movement of the same air which carries the feces of its dissidents litates, viz. And these sounds appear, he objects: for a perceptible form, for example, sounds when someone is shouting tis, under the same reasoning, as it were, with the eyes of someone deaf, under which you are with the ears of someone the same thing happened to him. I will continue like the light without the body from which it flows, with the actual influx not to be kept it is possible, so sound without motion of the air. They are therefore to be laughed at, as many as the sound of the enclosed channel can be closed for a long time they think themselves, as will be said more fully in our Echotectonic Magic; in fact, experience teaches me and we are affected with greater pleasure, while a certain history, or description. we read the life of something; or from a distinguished orator there will be a variety of these words and expressions. we hear it sketched in figures, and in some desired colors, as if the same thing were seen by the eyes. we would look As, moreover, the appearance of objects affects the eye in a hidden way
and the optic cord to produce a similar image with the help of spirits; so sound the image of the air-entrained body affects the air implanted by the acoustic or auricular nerve to represent the sound image of the body. From which, if I am not mistaken, it is clearly shown, a great number of optical and acoustic bodies in action and production in man they will see you, hear you, likeness. Finally, just as sight is refracted in a denser medium, so sound; for later fuse show- Refraction is given For what else is sound in a very porous body, and soft reception: but the reflection of so. some kind of bra, an obstacle to the sound, so that it does not extend further, going against it? Consequence inc follows a certain method of determining the amount of sound in the water, ad the sound of the same body made outside the water is louder, and consequently, when so the air is rarer than the water. For the experience of the distinguished Mathematician was not so long ago com- water gra. it was heard, the sound of someone banging two steps, for example outside the water, in- rVaqui! through the water there were five degrees, and consequently one harmonic a tenth minor to have been greater, and the cause of this fact is no other than the rarity and density of the various species of the means For water is more resistant to the sound of the body inside the water than outside. water from which resistance is born the slowness of motion, which measures the slowness of sound itself it is greater; For just as the medium is related to the medium, so the vibrations in one me made by God to the vibrations made in the other; And as vibrations to vibrations, so sound the anchor If, therefore, vt had been an example in the purpose, vt to the movement of the air water, they will have in the same proportion: whence the rarity of the air to condense the water itself will have, vt f. at You see, then, that the Phonymphs are exactly parallel to their operations, except with that motion which is equally discordant in the light, it will succeed in the sound. Not at all only the fertile can be propagated in straight lines it passes through canals and tubes, or through similar channels of sound, in which I do not so much but it is greatly increased and strengthened, even farther than in the open air it is propagated, because it will later be verified by various experiments. Lih. the oology of Confini, Dijfinì: Vniuersalii p R AE L V S I O I I.
The phonocampic object is not limited to walls, rocks, walls, and the like ra hard and solid fu nt, but also the earth, trees, leaves, wood, earth simple
porous waters, especially water, and the fluids to which they will be apt to reflect sounds and sounds the matter has not once become more complicated than in a strange manner. while not once in the middle you sit between Rome and Tusculum, where there is no wall, no trees, but so many bushes They dominated the steep rocks and furrows of the fields, but Echo was not without wonder not to be allowed to perceive, so small a thing can cause a strange effect. .Virgulta-# and the furrows of the aforesaid fields had caused the echo, from which I was convinced that you were another passing through a pore-built place with stilts and bushes cut down, Echum ampliùs au it is not permitted to say; There are also many great Echi; once a celebrity in our times they will either be torn down by walls, or altered and altered by Anacamptic objects; At least to himself the beautiful Coecilice of Metella, which today is called Capo deb. oui, the site of the Praetorian camp Boissardus relates in his Topographia Rome that he once had the greatest celebrity, which however, it was not possible to find the way he was looking for with singular effort. Boissard's words I have added, that the reader may know what is to be thought of his relation; in Topography Vrbisloquitur The Sepulchrum of Metella is a round shape made of square white marbles The largest part of the tower is hollow inside, and open at the top, the walls of which have been roughly eroded It is feet from the corner of the manor, around which are incised marble heads of oxen and stripped of flesh, as it was customary to do in sacrifices, in which they were kept in
of flowers, which unite the gatherings of flowers, flowers, and plants, they commonly call them settons, and in the meantime the storage of the sacrifices; They bear two hundred heads of oxen, hence Capo di boui it is called, they want the Antiquarians) to infuse the famous Cecilia Me as the twin of Hecatombensatta tella, whose name is read on the beautiful frontispiece, on a huge marble tablet facing the gate of the citadel Pretoria Cecilia Orefici F. Metelli Crajfi. At the foot of the hill on which the tower was built, if anyone utters a complete heroic verse, Echo will render the same verse and art to be admired culatumsepies I repeat that first Virgilian Aeneid in its entirety force, and pose a confused several times. Nowhere is such an echo of the nations heard: therefore give so much he is excited by artifice, to infuse this Cecilia with the cries, exclamations, and plan- All these funerals were multiplied to an immense extent, while that Hecatomb was celebrated twice, and the games funerals were held in honor of the Matron. This is Boissardus. I fainted with longing for this incestuous curiosity, this prodigious Echo twice or so thrice he searched with the utmost earnestness, but in vain he was never able to find the same one, for neither was he a vile al terri hereRomg of curious men; It is easy to see that he who follows our phonic exercises has been closely examined; I don't know how the Author pronounced this so boldly; Or perhaps the site ra unchanged? Has the neighboring fortress been demolished? at least with the highest degree of interest esseinueni, wherefore we shall leave it to others who are more curious: e0 certainly as I said several times I explored all the surrounding walls; but nothing such as that said writes Boissardus, I admit that they could have found me CurEchor. ó Furthermore, experience teaches us that water can be an anacampic object, all of them wells almost make the Echo most distinct, as the well in the atrium of the Vatican Palace testifies, given he refers so distinctly to the voices of men, even the most subdued, as to the inner side of men The Evadeanus reports all things so much more perfectly, the more freely he has been exposed to the air for the well, being covered with a roof or a sheet, does nothing, for the reason of which I do not know is Phonocamftic magic. there is another, the double reflection of the snow, one of which reflects downwards from the arch, the other from the water, upwards, and thus confused, it is not necessary to report them in any distinct way. With water beyond ma- It is not surprising that Echu should have a mirror-polished surface, and is very suitable for reflection ad lacustagna, rivers, marialubentiu&quâmalibistatabulari. Certe puteiidpne re They declare that liquids, which are abundant in water, are ten times more resonating than those that are not in water.
given, especially if the inner concave surface approaches a spherical shape. We therefore avoid the possibility that every solid or liquid object can be an anacampic object; And indeed they will echo the sound of vegetation as much as they are more refined, not otherwise A very clean mirror shows better light and figures, a less clean and polished one; according to The rest of the third party is scratchy and soft, reflecting indeed, but weakly, and in- in order, for on the grassy slopes of the mountains, in the groves of great trees a crowd rejoicing in which there is no orderly reflection, but from manifold islands. from the forest to the tree with the reflection of the voice, it is not left, except a certain vehement phonism fi-. a confused boom, and a tinnitus similar to those which are usually heard in wells. Veriimhcec We will continue with everything that follows. PR. AELVSIO III Of the middle Phonocampus, or of the line of action. In this place the medium is to be considered, Physic Mathematical; Phy- Double me. the middle of the fig is that airy space through which the voice is propagated, and in many ways the phonon it is of quality constitution. The mathematical mean is the greatness or parity of in- byfieumSc we will treat; we will begin with the middle of mathematics.
Delinea of action Vhonica. leu phonic activity? we call it, which; radiose siue phonic diffusion Linca
it terminates the action, and is double simple and mixed; simple line of action it is direct, which limits the propagation of the voice, the sphere of phonic activity is semi-quadruple. is called the diameter. It is a mixture that is made up of incident and reflection, as well as diò di- We call it the direct reflex, although Blancanus makes this the cequal of the direct or the simple ci In rigor, however, it must necessarily be less; For it is certain that the voice directed at the wall ma- illise, if I had broken it there, and had suffered some loss of strength, I would return weaker matter, how direct, how much energy unimpeded by any obstacle it is known to the that we have demonstrated the fusè in the Art of Light Shadow; But how much is this? the line of mixed action becomes smaller than the simple, it can be determined with difficulty, certainly the difference I think that it is so little, that it is rather that of reason, than that which can be called sense; I went without scruple tur phy so what kind of direct? it can be established; thus we received ourselves both here and in the Castle Lucis Vmbrce sol. With the reverberation in the middle of the neighborhood raised for a while, He will easily restore what was lost by illiteracy. This power may be considered according to three cases; The first is, or for the line reflected is equal to the incident line, and then the phonocampic obstacle, the medium ne- Primustafus when the line of action ceases, it will take over: for example, if the line of action in the first case be A C an obstacle anacampticum in L. middle line? be at a point, the radius A will be as large as B. reflected in V. as much as AB or BC half of the whole line AC: phonic action.
Second, if the reflected sound line is greater than the incident, then the obstacle pho- nocampticum vitra halfetem be set up vt in S. critque reflexa SR so much, quanta SB. the direct remainder of the whole AB. as the figure shows in the second case. Tertius Ca- Thirdly, If the reflected phonetic line were half of the whole, then the obstacle- game phonocampticus tn necelfariò will be established on this side of the middle of the line of action, vr will be in P that reflected FX. as much as PB the remainder of the whole line AB, direct. Of whom who it is clear that the lines are both orthophonous and orthophonous, always with one concern bent together, directed towards the water. Of t eteri tatefini through which the medium passes, sue defiacq stonic quantity. what a doubt and doubt you have internalized Echonic determination; Blancanus pastu geometric minimum spacist terìn determines, the least sparèam stautem that which is one syllable distant fpac: o Echo stops with her ears crying. Mcriennus places feet; I tried everything mca I found a fuming smell, so finally I got it, there's hardly anything certain about it I thought that experience in matter was a determinative post; In the same place, I discovered that the more violently you push him, the faster he moves genereium- reflected, thus vt the voice that gave the syllable distinctly, tu b would confuse the sound jscldpi ve- pta The noise would so absorb her, that it was scarcely possible to distinguish what could be heard I wonder what came into the mind of the best Mersenne, as a son of a certain man The species of sound from one and the same place scraper and swift csteaflerut; For if there were species of sound a ns vnda- intcntionales, no doubt, vt appears in visible species, about this a? quicdentate tl0ne what should be concluded; i. e. when the species of sound are real, and the air that they may not be transferred as a vehicle, it is certain for the intensity of the excited air, the faster the scraper the faster the sound will go. The surer the ball the stronger the attack on that wall it is said, it is reflected with so much more rapid motion, and consequently with a greater distance; Totally different experience teaches us nothing but sensible experience to have motion in agreement with the voice. Which I came to they are true, as even Mersennus himself admits this in his Harmonia vniuersali Gallica lib. g. fol. Curnotiu where he says sein valle klontmorentia near the houses of Ormestonia Echu obleruaste, -qui
always when he would repeat the i4lyllabas at night, during the day only that is, the middle part of the exijsrepc- d! eUpp1a tiret) The cause of which, indeed, is no other, than the utter stillness of the night air, there 'consistency disturbed; But the day, driven by innumerable motions, fades and breaks that whence, in consequence, the voice, obstructed by various obstacles, was less quick star Lîh. Phonocampic magic. afy they do not stand in the way of the state of Sienim, and the sound of the movement is under a determined intcrual fcm through hurry up, I don't see why you don't have as many syllables during the day as you don't Etho repeats in turn i Which therefore only repeats seven syllables during the day, at night the sign is manifest, slower than the day for the reason mentioned a little before be warned and proindevltimasseptemsyllabasinmedio disturbed and varied movements Certainly if the fire had exploded in the same place, no there must be no doubt that on that day he had repeated all the syllables, or anything this experiment is supported by the vibrations in the instrument Chronometto $quidiutur- strength, or the movement of two heterogeneous groups by exaltation to the ground, these for experiments, if they occur in a larger space, are to most people suspect, and full of fallacies We shall show them that they are exiled; for they have fallen alone into the ground in the unequal space of time experience will teach, at a height of feet. But of these elsewhere.
Since then it is difficult to determine a certain measure, try it out I will find a lot of discrepancies in these different things, and I will not be idle in this business uh indeed, the experiences made by others to the anvil call back all kinds of experiences I, having arisen from the monosyllable Echo, with voice, trumpet, and whistle, I risked the whole business, I did not admit monophylly between a space of feet I therefore found a stanza for the monosyllabic Echo about o feet, for which I said his vt la It had a height of feet, within which space it always repeated the same syllable; The trumpet, however, within a space of minutes, gave its first sound distinctly; But in during this space he was a little confused with the first sound; But within feet 9o. hcptaiyllabic verb. gr. Armavtrumquecano. within time, anyone as quickly as possible he would recite Aut Maria vfc to the words Blessed thou. including, render completely distinctly bat The chronometer also vibrates a little, but always with little success; then at different times in the morning, at noon, in the evening, at night, either by me or by others first we find that, and a different quantity between them; the stormy silence of the night Echo was seen to leave his domain for the reasons mentioned a little earlier, very early in the morning We found that the air was cloudy and misty at noon
Moreover, I spent my time diligently and diligently observing; at the right time The echo is strangely blunted, so that it hardly seems to have any force; after heavy rains tes, because it acquires a great deal of strength by defecating air; Here Rome is breathing a strange saying Boreas acquires the greatest vigor; In the south it flacces has When the wall was closed to Boreas, Boreas blew, with a strange word, a voice directed to the matter the bend is noticeably slower; But the same tempareinmerìdiànamfiiperfìciem falling the direct voice is reflected more quickly, for in the previous experiment the direct opposite of the veto The reflexive voice is carried more painfully through the middle, the reflexive voice is expanded more quickly by venmfedindo it returns to the ears, that is, what it had previously lost with obstinacy, it now recovers with speed. The same can be said about the other parts, even though it appears from here that the speed of sound is great through the medium of delatidiversitatem-f.
The consequence d id th i fallacy in instruments Cfironome. three times per vibration rione. scfoor- dammit Echo mono yllaba (pa ci u requires feet Chem. I tried various things mints (use pious At night Ve (Peri sound I hope for everything I am returned; ma e me riff very badly
X This infinite diversity and variation of means is clearly evident, every inter- Diffici]; s that the determination of the echonic wall is doubtful, vague, and altogether uncertain; no termination that whatever Blancanus and Merlinnus say should be clear to him gan is (of which we will be treated later) Catoptric indu stria constricted, by the laws of the geometer cis is subjugated. Whatever, then, may be said of impostors, I am only hypothetically en they are fairies. Conse Musurgu Pniwrsalu Consequence Atet secondly, the Vfum of the instrument Chronomctrisive vibrations vti pulsus, in that this business is superfluous, when the sound is at such an incomprehensible speed from time to time trumeau runs through Uiedium, as the wire begins to run, the voice has already finished the peridrome stops, and therefore draws the water through a sieve, as the quantity of such rapid motions everywhere I think he is confident that he will be caught by the Chronometer with his clothes. For at least îepoifequî used with all possible care, now IO, only zo, from time to time feet from bate spaci'j arabit fat the space between the feet is hard; is it? I. or feet of space for growth The rapidity of the movement is scarcely perceptible at the time of one less fruitful one, to complete a space of geometric paces; that is not however, it is to be understood geometrically, but physically and grossly, as far as you can see although it is given. to discern with the senses. And I don't just say that to the curious reader I would like to refrain from such laudable observations, but for the difficulty of the business I will put and how much diligence, vivacity, and dexterity in properly performing the experiments whether the work of genius is finally considered by some measure of Echon's search data Since then the stian canus has discovered the monophyllabic space of Echon to be geometrical paces, or what is the same, geometrical feet; Mer- kasE. ' indeed, it wants to be mq of geometrical feet; I think the middle is safer choniarcdd to be held, a molecular space of no feet, which with the cited Authors- of the prohibition of dung, the observations correspond almost to the truth; But the observations rarely come together, cau Such is the diversity of the medium of speech and the inequality; For as I said above, there are others annitépo- viresEchoni at other times of the day, some are in winter, others in summer, autumn, and spring branches other time of the day: constitutions, I do not doubt also the nonsyllabic Echo, as here lub qum'&Vli- In Roman climate time one minute of a second is feet of geometrical space. mau diuer- conficit, aUis3calijs climates diversum time space to consume; quality we also repeat a variety of reflected sounds for the variety of anacamptic objects; chum-j- Echoes are weak, weak, there are strong, there are squeals and noises, there are other untouchables. amoen, atoluctuof, lamentation the phonocìptL of the diversity of the world comes from the different constitution of the bodies that pro- di-" as more or less porous funmmusa or more sonorous, limpid, and vegetal find- tutfo, CEchâ Nam vtlib. It was shown; Each body has a different part. they vary agglomeration; where is it, that each one also may be allotted different and distinct sounds, bodies luia&porofavti a clear and tinkling sound, so dense and rough, dull And they sound great; From this it happens that the voice slips into some body in that quality and properly let him return, imbued with the tate with which he himself was imbued. For just as the light in the sky as the sky slips away, it is dyed with the color of the surface; so the Voice is dyed as it were by the sound of the body it happened And this is the reason why the reflected voice is clear, in a dull manner now it is rendered mournful. But having examined all these things, which belong to the nature of Echoes, to be known, they seemed to be required in a certain way, nothing now remains, except as a matter of reflection Let us establish nature by irrefutable reasons. G A' 'iv y. LibJX, Magia Phonocampttca.
Js CANONS, E T R EGVLAE co r Lemma Echocampticunum. : from each of the two points a net line, with which the common thread should be pious throughout those two points are drawn from any other plane, making two straight lines with her two water angles; They will be two straight lines shorter than any others by two straight lines, which is the same line from the same two points to another point are led straight From two points AB. to the C point in the straight line CD, so that the plane through CD was drawn let the revolute pass through AB, are they led right? AO. BC. making angles ACF, BCD, following: from the same points AB. be led first to another point D, to the right of C, ahx du? right? AD, BD, I say AC, BC are shorter than AD, BD. For for when AC is drawn towards C, let CE be, and CB itself as xqualis, and let DE be joined. And because the corner ACF, the angle BCD, is set equal to x, and the angle ACF is the angle E CD, at the equal, the angle BCD will also be equal to the angle ECD. When, therefore, the two sides Let BC, CD, and the two sides EC, CD, be xlike; the base DB will be equal to the base DE; and for hence AD, DB together with AD, DE together will be sharks. But they are AD, DE Mayo things like AE that is, than AC. CB; that CB CE, put the same, therefore AD, They are then led from the points A, B to another point F to the sinuses stram ipsius C, alix dux tectx AF, BF I say again AC, BC bre to be more alive than AF, BF For the products AC again, taken let CE join CB to EF And since the angle ACF BCD, xquales are placed; and ACF is the angle EC D to the vertex water the angles BCD, ECD will also be equal; and therefore of the two straight lines remaining BCFjECF, what will they be? Since then as the two sides BC, CF are to the two sides EC, CE, the base BF will also be the base EF xqualis: and hence AF, FE, AF, BF will be the same And there are AF, FE, Mayo the thing that AE, that is, than AC, BC, that BC, CE, put? let them be equal. So AF BF will be greater than AC, CB, which is the purpose. Because, therefore, Nature is not hindered and acts along the shortest lines; it becomes like a ray of the Sun or a force falling from A, on the clean plane DF, so that it is reflected at the point B, it falls down jump to the point C, where the angle ACF (which is called the angle of incidence) xqual is produced by the angle BCD, which they call reflection. For if the ray should fall D, or F, and would be reflected to B, nature would not act along the shortest lines; Let BD be longer than AF, BF, than AC, BC. as we have shown. which is absent while And thus it has been demonstrated that they assume the perspective, that is, the angle i nei- teeth? be the angle of reflection. Pro- r tgMujurgìa Ftfiuersalis
Proposition I Omnis'attuini Thonopotm aqualis e tt angulo Phonocatnptico, smt It is the same, the angle of incidence of the sound is the same as the angle reflection of the same.
Vcumqueiri Arte Anacamptica Lucis we osted from the reflection of the clay, here they can be brought back to the funtenim operations of sound, operations of light in om- to them, s! take a few parallels; First, then, the angle must be shown. be the aquatic phonoptotus aogutophonocaptico, which we do thus. Let the object be phonocampicum AB phonic center C phonocampicum D. I say the sound of Cirrus. From that stream will flow into D; For it is according to hypothesis I. .anguiusfphanocatnptiCUS AED sharks angle phonoptotoBEC will know the angle of incidence, the angle of reflection? o; For if the angle AED is not equal to the angle BEC, then the sound is reflected from E therefore the angle AER will be the angle AED, either aqualis or mqualis. If before The angle AER will be equal to the angle AED to which it is supposed to be contained, but this is absurd is If the latter, that is if the angle AER is not equal to the angle AED or BEC, nothing let the reflection take place in the point R, therefore its natural end is not under the Breuilfirm lines will reach, which is contrary to Axiom III. and the absurd in physics. it will therefore necessarily be gulus phonoptotus BEC aqualis angulophonocamptico AED quoderatdemonstra- but the operations will be limited by the quality of the angles of incidence and reflection
to set up under short lines, to be the same, in the Anacamptic Art, part proposition position i. the fuse was pointed out. to which statement he sends the curious reader we are afraid But
Pro- Luke Phomtamphtica of the Magicians. Proposition
'Ol Whenever the word falls on the obieBwn some orthophomn} siue perpendicularly, it will be reflected it is the phonic center or the origin of the voice in hyutde sigpraced. but the object of let the voice flow from A into B, or at right angles, I say that it reverberates from B you will go to A. I thus show that if, by impossibility, it is not reflected from B into A, then it is reflected into V. therefore, by hypothesis IV, the angle DBA will be cut, the reflection of water at the angle CBV nis, that is to say, a sharp, obtuse angle, which is absurd. We have assumed before the voice from A in the wall of the iron normally, consequently establish the angle of incidence ABD re ctum, therefore the angle of reflection must also necessarily be right, according to the quoted hy perhaps IV. therefore it reflects in itself, of course through the line BA by which it bends from A to B, which it had to be demonstrated. and teaches the truth of this proposition, as the light itself normally falling, then the ball, while it is normally splashed against the wall, is reflected back on itself, and other-- innumerable, of which see our Anacamptic art of light.
Proposition I I I Whenever a voice falls upon some object, the lexicographers are inclined to speak; the voice will be reflected not in Je itself but in the opposite direction
There can be four cases of this statement. Or for the voice on the wall vertically erect obliquely, then either to the right or to the left according to the position of the sonorous or the voice emitted below, falls obliquely on the phonocampic object above; so it will reflect upwards; or if it is shot from above and falls obliquely into the lower wall, and then it will be reflected downwards. We will show each case separately. Let it move in D&yvidesg. propos. i. with a phonic center in C, if the voice vtogoipat-? start I mean the tooth in B by voice from B. in the opposite part, that is to say, in A, with a bad angle to be bent; For if it is not reflected in A, then either infc ipssuu ho, c is in O or in I. any place outside AB. will be reflected But not in faith itself, when he went before, the perpendicular is finally reflected in faith itself; and the line CB when from the supposition— let it be ophona, that is, it does not fall obliquely into the wall, because the angle I B D is like it would be at the angle CBE, a part of the whole, which since it is absurd, does not reflect in another part raque under the most beautiful lines at its end dye Whenever, then, the line The loxophone fell into the opposite wall necessarily a part under the quality of the angle it happened, that was to be shown. From these it is clear that the set of sounds in A will be reflected the sound in C left, in C arranged in On the right Continue if the voice consists of A. phonocapti- When BC was the tower on the opposite side; I say with a voice from A to B, and from here to V. will be re-echoed. Reason it is exactly the same as in the preceding; cu for obliq; fall into B. necessarily the word sub m V. The same thing would happen if the voice of the tones lJl f it is true y[uJurgioe Vnmersalii for the return of V would reflect the voice in A, as is clear from the figure. And from demonftratishi- We form the following canons,
PHONOCAMPTIC CANONS1 S I V E E C HOME T R ICE t j o
rr rr; ; VM Phonocampticaarsin photocaptica laws for all? , without reflection nis carries light, not only are the main differences in position, qiig up, down, to the left, to the right, in reflecting, but and any intermediate parts for the location of the Anacamptic object; If you you will complete the Echica, or the phonetic one will be the norm for the Anacamptic object lis and at the same time parallel to the horizon, Echo will be born either orthophonally, or lexically phone, for a long position of the right or left vowel. Siverò the surface of the phone will fall obliquely up or down on the surface of the ali than the azimuthal of the Anacamptic object; reflections of anophong or catopho are born or Echi recurberantes up and down.
Finally, if the phonic surface is in some phonocampic plane, and not verti- and then cut it parallel to the horizontal circle, but inclined obliquely and laterally, Lateral reflections and Joxophona? , intermediate between the horizon and the vertex i We have demonstrated the Anacamptic art of light. Anacamptica c A N o N
i VVandocunq; therefore the phonocampic object was simultaneously parallel normative sound, then the surface of the reflection will remain at the horizon.
ralleluin loxopliouuiH, id eft3 object phonocampicum fuerit îequìdistâs. a sonorous but not normal, for they are either oblique but straight walls, or towers in movements, respectively when the sound is established in the valley, then the reflection surface will be at a distance from the azimuth thallis, whether it is the same as the vertical ones, it does not match. I'm talking about the object of the phone the optic was neither parallel nor normal to the sound, then the surface of the phonocampti- ca siue of reflection will be jequidistansvni from inclined or inclined planes. C A N O N I I I No matter how many tones A was in this plane horizontal, but the phonocampic object C in the same horizontal plane; necessary rio will be followed by an upward reflection in V; if he had been inclined at the same time inclined, for the reason of the inclination and the nation will reflect not upwards, but in the middle way, so vt the whole doctrine of the plain fciatcris, as in Arte Magna Lucis Vmbrce tradidirpus, to this Echometrbe poi- let it be
Lib. IXv Phonocdmfttca: zti
-avs ftiotfc3 noBainKtriO at any rate the two walls are committed to the red corners, very bright Echo fer cis itura sonoro itddisttinte', Waxis conis honici: Alumre Bumbifaria cut off Conus there variously flexwnxcem reslexammtrificeeonfortatinfi? :patet i ÎJtebii 5aa$ito)h. 3oib3M int the two walls AB& DB joined normally at B, and let the phonic cone EFBO be the axis EB bisecting a right angle, and since E reflecting in the point F. thence at equal angles it is reflected in C, and hence in ray E falling in O dHl m'vV l OfA V wow
hence reflected in F. then iterufh is reflected by a contrary movement in wonderfully strengthening the sound It is not surprising that the echo is made more resonant in a simple wall, with the air varying it goes by reflected reflection, because all the lines along EO, and including EF, are reflected almost from E ctanti& consequently render the Echu more intense, swift with this head. If true cpnipho-. so that the outer side of the walls should be set up in such a way that the obtuse ledges with the said mu ris is done, then the Echo becomes most useless, ZL of no value, as it becomes in the walls
centrophonico, which was established as the center of the circle Echumpercipiet it obicctum phonocampticii AB concave; circular, sound or phonic center C, which is the center of the circle AB; be iinea CV ó0- I mean the honeycombs, the most consonant Echo, to be perceived. , For since all the sonorous Iineîe from the center r C coming out to the end of the circle are rectg Necessarily, according to the purpose, in sereflectunter i cum moreover, let all be aquatic according to i z. definition NemEuclidean will be perceived at the same time in C; they will reflect on the matter, they will intently focus on the fact that it was to be proved. Ii Who if i
nib r, rnctin, rr' rt, i 2SM FniuerfalU Meanwhile, Echo acquires great power in circular hollows, thus in circular convergences destroys the same altogether, rcflexislineism others, other parts I said you suffer
Corollanuttit U V' to render it more imperfect, the closer it is to the center of the wall, by touch I made the sound more confusing. A moderate distance must therefore be kept.
Proposition I with the glove of his voice he sits nearer to the object of the phonocampus the more distant the reflected voice will be perceived: tz) the more vocal it was far from the phonocamptic object y so much reflected will be perceived as
For Vm in the prolusion of z. osteìîstmvsit, lineâhi-actnihatîšdîfecto-reflexam scraper to be as great as is the line of action he bet
The sariò follows the line reflected so much by the esso the longer it is, the shorter it is, and so much more the shorter this, the longer that. Let it be object phonocampicumHBI. Sitquo line of action directly-reflected SBF water VRlinèas direct action: I say so much refle xam the voice at a distance from the perceived object iri, the closer it is to the same direction. For when are direct-reflected li no, the sharks are VR action lines; the voice in F will necessarily produce a reflexive voice in S Again, the arrangement of the vowel, or sonorous in G I mean the reflected voice perceived in D to go For GB, BD joined at the same time: it makes VR direct line of action, therefore Put ò vo when the cali is set in C, I mean the reflexive voice perceptsi iri ir-E. Nam BE simul fum- pt$ throw a line of VR action. therefore, how much force do they use in the phonocamptic vocal question? cinus, the voice so reflected will touch the object at a greater distance, and on the contrary, that it was a demon beach
Proposition V I I If several phonocamptié objects were arranged in order, viz it is always more remote from the other, and the orthophones to it are slow to pass through to dye pojfity will be born Echo polyphonic, that is from fi, several times suc ce è voxproietta will be rendered: int chiesta phonocamptica ABC, thus arranged in order, vt always one thing after another he hissed. And let the vowel be in D, and to each of the normal chiestas, by which I say crying remove vo- cem cem will be repeated for the third time, since, from the supposition, the objects EFG are to the vowel nor malia, orthophona, line$ DE, DF, DG, exEFG, the points necessarily reflect in themselves ip- fasin D; whereas the line DE is shorter in
And when it is longer, how much more it is of time in returning to D imumit& con perceive the reflexive voice E following the weight there is a reflexive voice F, and when DG still DF it may be faster, it will still reach the ears more slowly D. will therefore be born from different times unequal cb of different lines lon gitudinum Echo triphona DE, DF, DG If, then, the cbiecta phonocamptica were so Whence it is to be noted that in this place the double duration of the word is considered ipoffc, first itself the sound of the yoke lasts as long as it is uttered, and is in the first production Vegetus, you carry the fruitful propagation of the word itself through the line of action, which of this Quomojo of the condition of being during the first voice, and it lasts, but when it is further advanced, it is silent Echo Sene' that first, it continued to propagate until it was pushed against some obstacle and reflected by it is generated by a direct-reflexive line, where experience teaches us, for a long time in reality we hear the first voice, the reflected voice at last; Be therefore the whole duration of vo cis from the production and to you the least of it, commensurate with the space through which it passes, the voice returned; If, therefore, the dissension is less, the reflected voice will also return more quickly; If ma faster, slower; Whence, consequently, m can repeat fewer syllables at a smaller distance, in the greater number and although all the first syllables of the word are reflected, yet all are not they are heard, because the first stronger voice overshadows the weaker reflexes, viz they cannot be said, as it ceases at last sooner or later according to the amount of difference: exau they are given
Conicctarium, v It is clear why from time to time only a single word of a word is ever heard the former, because obviously the reflected voice returns during the first, when the tandS had ceased the remaining syllables are perceived. Let the wall AB be di- a minor CD from which someone shouts with a strong voice with the voice of the PREPARED first I painted the syllable PA on the wall, then I made I will give R A, the third TIS in exactly retrograde order; stop with his ears, then two in a row? Dquétesfyl- stands labq RA, TlS, If therefore the difference was monolyl- in tongue-in-cheek prose? I am going to fit, then proclaiming God with what voice are you ready, not only with the syllables of TIS through will be taken, for the first syllable PA pertingédo ad The deflection at the point reflected there will arrive at C RAin c&TIS in f. therefore the syllable there is confused: it will return nothing
voxex arrived in C, R A comes from D in in e. interim du direct last syllable TIS arrived at D. therefore once again there is confusion, so that Echo cannot be heard, with the holy two syllables PA, RA, the last syllable TIS was finally passed without confusion it is pious in C. Therefore, seeing the nature of the sound according to simple lines, nothing resists, except vt do let's also say composites. Lib. Phonocamphtic Magic you rj f rd, ksâ à J ttiiut) t mi Honifmus, as is clear from the definition, is a cylindrical, or conical, end of a diffuser the diation of the voice in the manner of a cone, or of a cylinder and to note the sound is not simple linear
to dye, for in others nothing at all is heard? pollet, this skin differs from light; But in pro- by his projection and reflection he acts through mXadu, ; a cylinder, or a sounding cone; It is sounded nf
it has a purely mathematical breadth, invnui; ;ji r. 's vt in reflection not a single line, but. cort-. c reduced number of sound effect citati Let it be, for example, sonomm A, rcflexionis ter- less B. you will build a wall or wall
Let the CDi begin the movement of the sound in the A section only the line AQ from Oiacta, but the reflection of the whole cylihdrici. com AFE. -go to B through cylinder EFB. The real thing We will demonstrate our self-discipline. sq lit Xj lj u. San
l, r 5, ai: ;vl V pvlrros u. brara!
The cylindrical phonium is refiettttur in the opposite direction cylindrical projection.
Some drum in A whose sound falls on the surface C D I say the walls of the seam are cylindrical, that is, the reflection is not linear, but cylindrical the future For they should be conceived from each of the tympani punâis line sòriofg m the surface EF led, what? no doubt they constitute a phonism under the form of a cylinder, I mean huircetm- it will be reflected in B. under the form of a cylinder; When in the cylinder AFE phone line? let all the sonorous ones be parallel to each other, each by n. of this L by d. our art tic mae$tAXX65 reflect. in B the base of the phonocamptic cylinder. It is clear, therefore, that it must be put forward; What trian- 8ed hac expracedenribusverillimasunt. Norandunryerò that triangle FHEa was projected, the reflected voice will be imperceptible for so long, but when reflected, it will be confused. outside of that, in all that space BHF is tajitopcrcipated diftindi, how many B ears was closer. It should be pointed out that this triangle would be as acute in H as the line AOma-
i i U? But when the phonism was at the bottom of the phonocamp, a column would be born, or the sounding cylinder is reduced; Let X sound, the CD wall, parallel to the sound,
normative Book Phonocampic magic. the normal, I mean the sonorous lines of the cylinder, will be reflected in itself. For with the exhypo of sounds if the thesis is normal to the CD wall, all the lineg sonorg will consequently be parallel therefore, and all reflect in themselves according to proposition the proposition is therefore clear Proposition X In Phonymphus the conical axis is reflected only under the squalor of the angles, phonismus vero will be a truncated cone. (struck by imphotisms adinabilismo optico3axis of the pyramid of light flue 'visualUvimha betprincipal both to illuminate, and to represent the things of God; in the same way the matter is in the Conical Phonism. it Phonismus Conicus ABC directed at the end of the phonoptotus; phonocamptic object CHB. I say not unless the axis AH is reflected in the medium D. under the equality of the angles. the point of the base of the cone j Since hg is the guide li ncee they establish the conortfm axes, they will be ter- the minor axes are necessarily the centers of the base a cone both direct and reflected; you stopped therefore protect the angle of incidence AHB; horse lem DHC angle of reflection, therefore h$c so la will be reflected in D. leave all in other similar parts under a rough angle rum will be reflected, because AB will be reflected in F. AK in G; AL in D. AM in N. AC deni that entered For if not in the said points they bend, therefore all are reflected in God; therefore the angle of reflection of the singular ing- such as the angle of incidence. which is absent
while against the hypothesis, therefore not unless the only axis under the quality of the angles refle it is created in D. no other; consequently the reflex phonism will not be a cone, but I do not know that what will affect the truncated and inverted cone.
Proposition XI. The tonic phonism compensates for the reduced reflection a truncated communication. it is the conic phonism ABC to the normal wall BDC, I mean the reflex phonism to form an inverted truncated cone; For since the lines from A in mu rum incident through today, none but the axis the fiue medium is recurbed in itself, therefore all in other other outside A points reflect when but those points from the periphery of the circle, the base that is, the phonic cone, or the conic phonism under They are reflected by the quality of the angles the boundary of the lines VX. it will necessarily be around lus, whose center A will be the phonic chord, or that the center is the same as the apex fe. , MuJurgìe Universalis the phonifm of a straight cone, but the truncated circular surface, will be common to the base of the cone truncated phonic ABQ will be the inverted cone which is rotten in D that axis cuts the normal wall Phonism therefore conic, which was Corollary.
X follows from this proposition, if at the station of VX the various aiires were placed, all they will hear the same sound, or the same Echo, the base of this forest the larger the cone VX, the closer it was to the object phonocamptic BC, and the longer the punctum phonicum is further away from the walls, as in the prolusione z. . Z.
On polyphonisms, the prodigious increase of sounds. But then, confined within the hollow bodies, I grew the greatest light acquires a chin, thus &sound; The same caustic glasses in Photifmus they work in a confluence, in this confluence of phonisms the Otic and Acustic organs Whatever it is. ca thus vtpolyphonifmus is nothing else than multorunrphonifmovum or conórunu. rnush&Dpóiy of vowels confluent in one point. Surely polyphotism is nothing else, however photyphmus the confluence of many photismas in one point. Because indeed this polyphony the mouse properly joins concave bodies, which polygons, which cycles, my parts I have brought out the argument so subtly and illustriously (especially when (so that I may know, whoever touched it) you would declare. I suppose, therefore, that the voice in the open field is in fact exposed to no reflection, but radiating spherically into every location of the parts, but as soon as some obstacle is encountered It is normal for the same to be based on the first phoneme. If it is true, the middle voice of Fu will be intense two obstacles or walls, and in this situation two phoenixes should be founded, and so on. On this supposition, then, nothing remains but the number and quality of the voice in bodies let us see. So let it be. Proposition XII. with the phonic center on the axis of the prism of the isopleural concave trigon as o3 njox I bought the flowers in tripliphonism, but it will return to its center. it is a triangular concave prism ABC. phonic center let it be fixed on the D. axis of the prism, I mean the voice emitted to return to its center with a triple increased phonism, since enimradij siueaxes phonismorum DE, DF, DG to the sides, , He proposed the prism. they are normal; necessarily reuteren- A, burn themselves, triple increased? , since also all the neighboring rays through they are accepted as normal; and the same according to the hypothesis z. about the same center D. they will meet, there the various um the meeting of the lines will be wonderfully focused on the voice. next door perpendicular to D. recur; He put the rest next to him. go rijs secondary reflections on the sides, tinnitus or confusion they will return the boom. So the phonic center is on the axis of the prism When the three-sided concavity was established, the voice emitted with a triple phonism increased and returned to its center bit, which was to be demonstrated. Pro- etc. Thoriocampic magic.
Proposition XIII At the center of the set on the axis of the concave quadrilateral prism, sent out with quadrupliciphonismo auHa will return to the same center. ABCD is a concave quadrilateral prism, the center of which is no sound in Ecdic was uttered with a fourfold phonism
the increased return on E For since the radii) end of the axes pho- A nisinorumEBjEC) ED, EA are normal to the sides, by
the voice of this is reflected in faith; they will also harmonize in time in E; when the neighboring rays pet be taken as normal, ij about E to latitude netqaurium reflects; I therefore call upon the phonisms which pris matis base the sides, the increased voice will return to the center E, which it had to be shown. But how the rest of the line finally through various reflections it must be said that they should not return to the center of E. And about the norm Indeed, it has already been said about the sides, let us also say about the obliques; Therefore, let vt in figure it is clear, EC&BE lines loxophone? , I mean easinE reversals i the quality of the angles EGI VCD is reflected in the Dinne under the same angle te VDC &SDO will be reflected in then from O under equal angles SQD B I C V VOF
KOE in E center; by equal agreement, EB is reflected, from B into G. and hence into F. and finally into E. EF which that cxF the opposite way is reflected in G, hence in B. finally in E; so EO from Oin D from D to C, and finally to E, in the opposite way, it will be returned in the same way as before. Again the line EF vt in fig. it is clear, from F reflected into G, from here into V. from here into I, from here into N. from here into from O into will finally reflect in the E scraper under the roughness of the angles, so vt after reflections at last it is returned inE; If, however, the flow of the voice is established in the opposite way from E to P; after as many reflections will finally be returned inE. The same can be said about the rest of the lines between O F in between Consequence I From these it is clear why in the square wells the voice is so intent, and so powerful bombus, for the lines are reflected in various ways and return to the same principle in a wonderful way whether they are wont to concentrate, it is also evident that the wonders of nature are hidden in the bodies of the increasing voice Pro- Proposition XIV. Musargise of France I enter the phonic recumbent in the axis of the prism of the equilateral pentagon, vox In the middle of the five fhoms, the auffa will be returned to the place from which it shone. it is the equilateral prism of the pentagon ABCDE, and the line from the L axis points to the center of the fire a single shot is propagated in every direction; I say LBC phonemes. LCD; LDE, LEA, LAB increased re for the first time it was proposed in L. z. the axis of the cones LG phones. LI. LK. LE. LH when at the sides nor fmt evils must be returned to L. , but the rest by force cini radii) driven by various reflections finally also in L re. they will bend For the voice from L falls on the other point O reflected in P. from P in V, from V in S; from S in I hence at last he will row in L; therefore you see no esseline the phonetic intercepted between the points HA or HB, by which not at last, after various reflections, the center of Lremeet. The same can be said about the rest of the phonetic lines either side of the incident. So the aureus is on the axis of the prism tis pentagon Equilateral constituted, what was to be shown.
C entro phonic arranged on the axis of the hexagon frismat aquilate ri, voox emijJa fhonifmis auffa, he will return to himself ifsa. The first isopleural concave hexagon ABCDEF. and the scepter in the axis in which the emitted voice, increased by phonemes, will be returned to the place from which it flowed, namely in O For all the lines of the axes of the cones are directed to God the middle of the sides ABCDEF are not normal, becomes They will be reflected in faith itself, that is, in O, the rest but the neighboring glass wanders to and fro with various reflections bundles finally also in O by proceeding, refle ctunt, therefore the most intense bombardment will be perceived; For VG from O, the voice dropped in m is reflected here in ih, K from K into N finally into O. ip P verso prolapsed on the other side reflected in the inflection in Q&exQtandé also in OJde to say about singular phonics lines, interMA AG, intercepted. Aure therefore established, that it was
Note that if one were to set the GHIKLM points to normal rays, I mean A perfect hexagon is described by the reflection of the echo line. For the voice from A in falling into G, from G into H, from H into from Hn K. from K into L. from LinM hence into A finally, it is necessarily reflected by the quadratic angles. Thus in the previous pentago
no voice in H, exB is reflected imC&exC in from D in E, from E in A finally will be reflected If at the points AB CDE to the rays of the figure I will be normal to the surface were carried The same can be said about all other polygons. corel Book eJMagia P ho noe amnica. Corollary I
Finally, it is very clear from what has been said, that, because they had plural concave tera, so much that the sound will be more amplified; for with increased phonemes the sound is increased, but the phonisms are increased according to the increase of the side, moreover, how much more widely they have been raijuxtahypothesin z. they will come more about the center; True in one paradigm, it is enough to explain Let the following figure be a dodecagonal prism, whose center O. sitqjACBOex one of phonemes, I mean the sound emitted from O except that phonifmisauge, it will also be increased from lines that approach more to the normal, Of what kind are all the intermediate lines between A and B? end? and each phonism will distance itself from the center in its first self-reflection, as much as it is the sides of the polygon Jatitudq; after multiple reflections, however, at last they are all in the center as they entered, it was seen Corollary I I It would also be worth it if the sounds consisted of VG. in A, and in each of the angles perfectives would be erectce, future, as sound reflection not to describe the dodecagon. If, however, the alternate surfi cies AHKMOF would be removed, the voice from E falling on B refle cteter in I, here in L here mN here in at last the reverberation returns to E, and its circular refle xion to make a hexagon; but from F in refle xa, he would describe a square, as the figure clearly shows. Again F in H, then M, again in F triple reflexes by reflection he will describe an equilateral triangle; you see tur quodomovoxin nico dedecagono, all reflection he does not describe the lines of his sonorous aspects of the astrologer. There are many other mysterious miracles of this kind They are hidden in figures, which only they themselves will reveal, and ours are here delivered it was more closely observed.
Infinitum, as the multiplication of the polygons grows to infinity, the multiplication and the fruitful nem of phonemes, all the differences grow to infinity; but it happens most of all to the axis of the hollow body; For in this all But the boom, or tinnitus, is especially born in the hollow corners of solid hollows; Whence, in no plain business, reason is assigned so much; resonance in the wells? i iy; m0ith ct. V; Aeacia
slSIUUjIIj Z jl iit U 'i A li Oli q: i; fu x t m il ic. vt ni jii m -iW? L'qrcdoufc ni XV Pro- Refle system Zion's heart through the pores of the soil push the hollows It resonates those from the wells Proposition fylusurgitf V niuersalii At the center of the sound, I fell into a bee from the cylinder, a voice echoed from everywhere bus f until the end of yesterday# will be resisted. it cylinder ConcauusXY vaccine N center con established I say it from all points peripaeiice ABC DEFGABGHIKL0& to any others without end tis will be reflected in N For all the lines from draw from the center to the circumference to it are straight lines, and he put the right ones next to each other. are reflected in the light What then is all the line? from the periphery in N where, om lest they come, the Proposition is therefore clear. With the rings the voice should not fall on only one of the points of the circle, the injured as many points as can be considered in long lines of the cylinder; h? but the line? all to the axis pa rallela? are all these lines of length pfi cta, will be reflected somewhere in the axis, whence the wonderful profus miraculous multiplication of sound, such as in we try deeper wells, no problem pa tefit i Let ABCD be the well. axis OP center phonicutn N i from which the sound emitted falls on E, then reflect from E tur in G, from G in F femper the axis intersecting in MV points. in the same way the word falling on EI reu erbe rabi there in I; exit in K, the second axis in RS; similar things bends occur at all points of the lines, of the height of the well, of what kind are AC, &BD. in sentjfchemate-i. Proposition XVII. Jn quote the pyramids and the sides vti}
ax of hollow cones conftituta au emtfja will never be returned in fie- ipfia, nifi in puntin L M. not true tall The voice of D sounds outside the points of ML does not come back in paint, she will reflect upwards. Let ABC be the pyramid, the phonic cymbal from which the slipped voice in G reflects in E. from H in F. from N in from here again in L; from which It is clear that the reflection of the upward movement was not insignificant remeare3 except in the two points L M. vti diturru is IPro- Proposition The phonic center is arranged in the center of the s-cors of the regular ears the rum rvox, reflected in so many phonisms, will return to us, quot Corfus had latercl. What are the regular bodies tetrahedron, cube, octahedron, dodecahedron, icosahedron5, &fic are said, because they have such sides as because they are inscribed in a circle alone for each of these planes is equidistant from the center even from the very definition of each one it is clear to them how the word can be propagated in them j for in the center of the tetrahedron once the voice has been increased by phonemes it will return to the octahedron in the dodecahedron iz. in In short, the icosahedron will return to itself increased by phonemes, the demonstration of all of them it depends on what is going on, even though it is easy and does not need an explanation. Proposition Sphara concauasono is the most suitable of all propagation. Vm for all lines from all points on the surface! circular to the centre let them be equal to each other, and pray to the spherical luperficia right; , necessarily in themselves reflected; in the center all the sounds of Ipecies will come, and there therefore the strongest sound will be done Sphxra, therefore, is the most capable of propagating hollow sound of all bodies. thus it was most appropriate to multiply by sound, what was to be proved. c A p v T ECHONIC PHONVRGIA S I F E Of the artifice of setting up and making of echoes, You would be rare for all, these things; to the Echonumpertine Theory in any way I could see Now, let us reduce each one to practice by means of problems, our vfefipeculars Let it be better revealed to all. So let it be.
If phonocamptic objects from a specific place are thus dissonant, ad Focal not parallel only, fled normaliasmt, V ox it will be reflected in detail in itself.
int phonocamptic objects BCDOEI; the voice determined by the place A above well, I mean the recursion of sound lines incident on said objects in A For by hypothesis the word falling on the said points of solid bodies ylios is reflected, but the ray ofliyewin reflects itself according to its purpose. all Book Phonocampic magic.
there in A. thus standing in the valley F. he will perceive the voice of A, reflected in O contra. from D quo that the voice reflected at the bottom of the well, multiplied by the sound, will return to A. Problem Given the two puns, the fiuestations both the position of the Ohieite and the corners to determine from i under which the lexicon goes and returns. int two points given ABi of which this is the center of the production of sound, the other A termi let it be a reflection of the voice; It is asked how the object of Anacampticy should be established. that the speaker B can perceive the reflex, let them be drawn from B, and A as long as they meet somewhere, v. g. in C. let it be a triangle lum ABC, after which the triangle ACB is bisected, for at the extremity of C diuidentisline point line nor He will assign it to the wall, or to any physical object, drawn by evils bending position, for on this wall the sound B falling ne- the basket will be reflected in A; I show the matter in this way, for according to Prof. i. Echo be made under the roughness of the corners dentition, and reflection, but here CS is the dividing catheter the phonocampic triangle would be bisected, and the line LCM would refer to the reflecting object, ad What will he give? The angles of the seat next to the catheter are equal, so from B the voice in, obie- Ctum LCM, having already been determined, will be reflected in A under the quality of the angles; Given, therefore, the position of the object at any two points or stations, you, the angles under which the lexical voice goes and returns, we determined what had to be done, Pro- Lib. Phonocampic magic.
Given any punttisseu (lations arranged in any way, while as long as they have a legitimate distance to produce the echoes, so obie tta anacamptica di sfotter e S ut voox rejlexa only to those who dittiti Ela tions or direct-reflected lines to the occupant. int data points ABCDEFG to dispose of the Anacamptic objects, as the voice reflected, to no one else, except the said stations, let the occupying points become known. The said points are joined by straight lines, by which each of the corners is attached to the previous one you have done a double thing; I mean to the outside but cut the corners of the lines twice The normal points are set up the nature of the location of the required objects then, give the voice reflected from the sun these stations or direct-refle lines. xas will be perceived by the occupiers. For the line bisects the angles to cut the ria are nothing else, except ca the reflection of the fupersicia, ea vbiq; cathetic angles by supposit. He will make water. If, then, the normals are erected at the extreme points, they will base it in the sin-' the throat has two right angles with the cathetus, to which the lower cathetic angles are below xeris, they will be by definition Eucl. the rest of the angle of direct reflection, that is the angle of incidence dende, equal to the angle of reflection. A voice therefore from A into the wall B. falling, hence the refle xa goes into C from here into from D into E, CxE into F, from F into G. from G. finally into H. vox therefore, in each of these objects, under the equality of the angles, it will reflect in the given points, give therefore, which had to be done. Consequence Atet, then, is the echo perceived in each of the given points by the established ear iri, and to different men standing at points, each of them having fallen from A it will be revealed, nay, not only in the given points, but in any part of the lines the connecting points, which we call dirccto-refkxas, will be revealed.
Problem V Given the points arranged in any way, in these so obiettaphonocamptica arrange vt Voxpartim internally partly externally reflected, fm- however, through the ear in any direct-reflected lines Echo is perceived as a whole. int given points arranged in any way ABCDEFGH, lines AB, BC, CD, DE, EF, FG, GH being joined, each of the angles bifurcated, the cathetes BV, CV, DV, EV, FV, GV, HV. to which at the points BCDEFGH the normals are erected, above which the objects phonocoptic is arranged, I mean the objects are arranged in this way on top of the normal ones, with the voice partly between don't aMttfwrg'ue Vnìuerjàlu no, partly reflecting externally; the reflected voice everywhere in the direct-reflected lines the ear was determined to be returned. For when angles as catechical as direct-re- by the assumption that they are equal, therefore by purpose i. The voice must have been reflected from B. Rmei nor will it be lost in C. where the external reflections will be carried in D, internally inEs then again in F siine internally in G. where again externally in H. de- nor externè in A femper under squalor will reflect the angles. Given the points which had to be done. But we say reflected externally, when some phoqocamptic object above It has a reflection face with its catheter ex-? through the data points of the district, respectively when the reflection catheters are extended outside, they reflect internally, when the catfie of your reflection, they turn within; in the proposed example, external phonocamptic barriers, the reflectances are C, H, and their catheters wandering outside Cv, HV, the rest obie tta having catheters verging on the inside, because it was BV, DV, EV, GV, internal they are Problem V. ConHrucre's polyphonic echo, or, in which I put the first edition of the same. He repeats the voice and other propositions several times. Let me call to mind in this place that which, in the third Prolusion of the interval of Echo, , we have handed over c For the sure and mathematical distance to be given in this slippery business k quickly poi y. the phone cried out; And so he will do; Choose a solid wall, polished, reflective then he would normally approach and withdraw from him, until I continued to have one daughter
When he has returned, he carefully explores the space by some known measure, then straight across let him recede gently, until he has rendered the two-syllable term perfectly, and the fpace of the dili the nation would be deceived; afterwards it would go back so far, until it had returned the trisyllable Echo, and there always receding more and more from the wall until he decasyllabu or the verse which he rendered the piety perfectly, observing perfectly the distance in all the polysyllables. And experience finds that the spaces, with which Echo vnasyllables are increased, are not equal, but femper minora minora: in equal accord, vtpolyphona be Echo the syllable a few times re-r he asks, fspaces that grow distinctly heptaphyllaba, are not equal but smaller and mi- always
For example. There is no other reason for this matter than the weakness of the voice. Monophyllab. hEchon (lua2 the farther the space runs, the more the Bissyllab.
It is certain that the voice of the femper is more and more weakened, Tet: afyllab. feet It is impossible for fpacia to be equal, but more remote fem- Pentalyllab. I by neighbors (vt. in the perspective of the columnar) vtsint ne- Hectasyllab. it has ceased. However, in what proportion they decrease, it is Heptasyilab. is to know when the speed of movement is exact to space and it is hardly possible to admit a definite proportion; He will therefore act more securely, if he has a sense of vti polysyllabic fpace, thus polyphonously explored the fpace of Echo; And so the mecha- it will be possible to trace it with the help of many others. Let AB be the wall from which the echometer recedes so far until that: the arms and the men cano3 have been perfectly returned, which will be done in point C. vbipri-
mus Echometra motionless sign of the last reflexive syllable (cano) dabitalterisocio, tan then going back in line until
rum in the line of until given first in C. pcract reflection let Echo begin fruitfully. here After the completion of the reflection, he will give a log for the third time only receding in the same line, until it ends with the reflection of the second and begins Asie in infinite; For these swords, carefully measured and explored, will give the places with which the mu is erected ri, they repeat whole sentences several times. But if these attacks were difficult on the top, Echometra would do better if the walls were level with a sword in proportion to his reflective voice, he would choose those who were dissidents, for these vt the very voices repeat themselves several times perfectly, as experience has taught me, in the dew of the Avenue on the walls of several towers, the first in the walls of the Auenion, in- nenes in which the voice is distinctly repeated eight times, even if they are obsiaculaphonocamptica spa sharks I am divided. In the same way in the Roman Vrbismoenij, where the word for the multitude of towers twice, now four times, now five times, sometimes seven times. But there is no problem let's approach the project closer at the beginning.
Let the wall of any one be propped up towersvfinsg. it is clear that he was touched by the iniquity ipâcio, how far apart is the vowel X from the first tower A, let them be divided; each tower surface ad by the word X parallel normal, I mean by the word X incident on each of the walls ABCDEFG He will form a heptaphone Echo turned back on itself. For when from supposition the word in itself it is reflected from all the walls to normal sounds; and then because of the more remote through and more distant towers, the voice recurs more slowly and more slowly, necessarily more slowly from the last tower he will return his voice as the penultimate one; &penultimate, than antepenultimate; And so on the rest. The ear, therefore, being set in X, will perceive the Echu heptaphone; therefore the Echu heptaphone We constructed what had to be done. Problem I DatispunBis to anyone posted in the circle. A circular echo construct a polyphonic videfig. lll- in int pu phonocamptic net in circle ABCDEFGHIKLM. in any case I arranged it those to which from A the phonic center are led by the line AB, AC, AD, I say from G pu tto semidiameter circle lines GB, GC, GD, GE, GF, GH, GI, GK, GL drawn
the nature of phonocamptic objects; For by hb. Select the angles are right in the semicircle, the lines drawn from G to the sonorous lines drawn from A will reflect the voice in the lines of C DEFHIKL as the sonorous lines from A are described normal, phonocampic objects based on them reflect the voice similarly in A. As the lines produced from A are always longer and longer, it follows that; the voice will be slowly and slowly reflected in A, so a polyphonic Echo will be born in succession the voices, repeating as many times as the points were arranged in the circle. I asked them both the circles had an equal distance from A, and at the same time they reverberated in the Echo they will make her twice as strong. Consequence From these it is clear how easily one can construct a polyphonic echo in a circle, pof-Echo cir let it be; where you also see a certain admirable peculiarity of this figure's motion ionor expressing weakness, for the anacampic spaces GP, PO, ON were said to be nanS They are not what they are, but they are continually declining, and they are always failing more and more, according to what they are pull are the lines of action, which AG refers to, closer. PG to PO, OP to ON. let them behave in this way, where to
Cho rum ali ciùua Sede sià to construct an artifice, noi three Singers. they are only fattened, as much as a hundred.
"Hori tholusâta should be arranged, so that inside it should have a sphere on top of the organuHft: veiò Cantorefqtie is distributed around the center of this tholi. you shall have intent; because for all the vocal lines are normal to the dome, they flowed to such a place. , They will be loud, violent, and intent on sound. Porrò if you take such a distance from the choir tur, qus Echoni trisi llabas recapitare fufficiatar et inlocosupetfides fphfica in let the wall be made, from that place of the temple, where the greatest number of men are inclined to indulge the gods which is described from the center; but they will constitute a different chorus from the first; clauses, so he adorns them, as if the clauses given weight are always paused only for a certain amount of time the said pores are valid, men in the said place will be convinced of everything At the beginning, therefore, the chorus sings the first clause, and the second chorus pauses in that interval he will repeat the song; This work was carried out with remarkable success in the vast temple of St. Peter if he could, he would be a musician who had the knowledge of such hidden things. temple also S. lacobi Incurabilium here ftom$ is so suitable for this business, as the architect he seems to have looked back here.
Consequence From these and the previous fates, it is clear how the artistic position of Echi was established. Certainly not so much in the Temples, but also in the Fields of Echi according to the preceding entities set up to polish, that is, to accommodate the harmonies, not once only, but twice, thrice, four times, and as often as the birds, they are repeated, and they all think that they should be distributed to different choirs ri, which is composed in one dance. For the two choirs represented after the order the tooth of the clause being brought out, a pause of two times, for three, for three, for four and finally the chorus, four seasons of pausing with a rope, as follows. Music by Echo. For chorus For choruses For choruses For choruses For choruses. Let us see that in this paradigm the first clause reflects A once, the second clause Bob Lik Magìa Phonocampttca.
B because of the longer sonorous lines I repeated twice I repeated the clause C a third time, why line? sonorg Echoes har' they are carried further still, so clause D is repeated four times because of the sonorous lines of the lon-monique insti ginquity, so of others. to protect: system It is clear, therefore, from what has been said, how Echo can be constituted, representing different choruses; But if the space were so long, the voice would disappear in it for longer spaces, the consul I would attribute to his tubg, drums, and other instruments of violent sound, as for Ionmùs when their voices were heard, their voices also stood in their ears, when near
I am confident of the echo of the beterophon, which is called the dwrsa
the words from the first.
I don't know how to go about this task in the first place. How for you are restless, I do not see that the voice itself can differ from it; when Echo is nothing else as a certain flow of the prince's voice was continuous and reflected, nor by any reason He can fbrre by reflecting, except what was first brought out, then it seems to be completely involved; I am to be given another's report. I answer that the Echo may be considered in many ways og&tatfiótsiue vt directam, or %sóvavov}ytobliquami again or monophonon, vt vnam or îroÂwpwyev inflecting several syllables. I therefore say that I echo the word nophonatn is not able to repreglent anything else, than what has been brought forth, is true, to be given also some Echus loxophonesaio, which we say can be suitable to represent Some, however, think that Echus also can be ill-disposed as a direct voice may bring one thing, and another reflected; thus some while uttering the words of Graea, Echu ot mVTa noZn. wftoie. good i
olflioi foQaJk. retrace
This, or in a similar way, from some languages. they would have a different meaning in different languages; Ve rum like forced vt they are, and small ingenuities are not easily put into practice, except with long study, and with little fruit are brought down, perhaps it would be better if these things could be done in one and the same language, of which some things We will set examples. See figure Iconism XV. Let v. g. Echo to be established in four syllables; objectsBCDEF so arranged- SHOUT! let them be like this, as if each one slowly reflects one syllable, and let it be the trisyllable LOVE indeed, but with power, the voice of the four-syllable CLAMORE Sonora but if the vowels be A. when, therefore, the objects thus disposed are supposed as they reflect the single syllable more slowly, it is certain that the individual objects are different fa to reflect meaningful words, thus the object of B CRY; love will return object C; MORE object D; ORE object E; Finally, RE is the object of F therefore the Echo will repeat polyphonically different and different terms, as if someone were to cry; ti- But I thank you, what cry? Echo will answer, thank you LOVE, MORE, EAR, REAL.
Thus the word CONSTABIS is used in different objects, and the term CONSTABIS is different will reflect in many ways, as is clear here, innumerable such things may be found, C'TA KTC successively another and another reflecting the former voice, so that Echo is no longer pri- let mam, fed, and other femper render voices, therefore in these two ways, Echo orthophones and indeed in various objects divers before the voices he can repay, not otherwise; It is therefore asked whether the lexophone echoes so it could be constructed, that is, it could respond to any other language in any way.
Eat the echo many phones cypress MORE the mouth STABLES GONE TWO LI Pro- 2ÓS M usurgie Vnìuersalis. The problem is cheap. A heterophonon conftrure, whose refèxavox is temperate other in what language he may answer. EquirithtecEcho, the work of two, therefore, should be instituted: first, spaciura d it is threatened by a quadrysyllabo or a pentasyllaboperfectè pronunciation aptum, ic. 'AVI
deter I will echo quaaryiyiiaoo or pentaiyiiabo is threatened by pronouncing it perfectly, that is, whether the word or expresses the word of syllables perfectly, after this is done, arrange the object nature with this energy, viz. the sound falling on the object consistent with each first station is reflected to the ears in the second station consistentisssed vt the first second no see but to be able to hear whence the object is in the region of the collision of the two walls, velpro- It is clear in the diagram that the montorij of some one must be arranged; inquoEF walls in D committed, C rocks as an obstacle reflecting each other whether it be artificial or natural, it is the same. Let the phonic center be reciprocal at points A B so far from the object cto DC dissitum, vt or quemadmo while I said the syllables were perfectly clear. This in agreement soon and before in A to proclaim in he took a voice, she loxophone in C in falling will not be reflected in A but in B, which after hearing it in B, respó- let other voices be published in any language, qux-in C. illif soon se auris in A con
they enter the standing room; He is therefore different from the former mo latu was, he will perceive, vt if the former cla I command him to ask what the name is thin-j in A consisting immediately of ver to the question, the answer is not his own, but he will perceive the reflected words of another; Cer and this artifice, especially if it be instituted with industry, is so secretive, as when here Ro If I had done this risk to our estate, there was hardly anyone who understood the reason. all were amazed, and as if stunned, because he answered all the things that had been done to him they would hear it in other words: yet to cover the artifice there must be two who then it is possible for them to be betrayed by word, for in this way the illusion will spread the more. So construct it ximus inwpc0iiov, 3ic. which had to be done. From what has been said, it is clear that the two points A B can mean any energy to themselves, nay, two dances with alternate voices are arranged in a strange way, and others are performed in to be left to the genius of the artist. It is also clear that how are their optics? the sight of deception, so acoustic; For being established in A, he will clearly think that the voice comes from D, and that he is present with the voice I was sent to myself; and this artifice will be so much more mysterious, as the voices are so much alike; one of them knew less about the other, but more abundantly will be said about these things in what follows corollary I heart II.
THREE LibAX. Thonocamptic magic. aop PHONOCAMPTIC TRIGONOMETRY
SIVE On the dimension of phonetic lines. Problem to go 2j. Given the normal blow from the wall with the angle of reflection, or incidence# of all the funds of loxof honors à normalpunfto B to find the distance it wall FDB normal distance with a known measure of pastures, line? lexicon AD, DE. I say to either angle CAG, or GAI, as it is, of the reflection DAB Let CDA be known, let the lines BD, AD, AC, CD, E D. Angle CAD, which angle ADB intersected? j. 1 the water is known by means of a dioptric instrument 76. grad. qui subtracted from leaves gra. for GI, the angle of the phonic catheter CDA. vt then the line You have DB, or the point of joxophonon is DB, vt c the angle of the phonoptotic sinus is degrees. at the corner of the bay phonic catheters; gr. ita sparisi pas. ad aliud; DB line distance will appear after the operation is completed point of reflection at point B. But if the line lo- whisper? AD the quantity you want, let it be the sinus A the angle of the ADB phonoptote to the whole bay; so known measure z? pastures, to another, will come out AD line Ioxoptota quasita, to which with the line ED re if the water is bent, its quantity is known from itself. But if you wish to know at what point the line AX the word D is reflected, do so. Du place the distance BD from the point A on the line AX, and you will have the point E, in which the term A ex D reflected will be perceived, as it were, for Cu catheters CD bisect the triangle of reflection E DA I will make a river, the corners EDC and CDA will be water, and the sea will support them tes, namely AC&CE, for the terms of these A E determine the space between A cen trum phonic the point E, in which the reflection ends: Given the distance, Corollary. inc it is clear that the lexical lines are directly-reflected between two parallel through the waters A bisector of the orthophone radii AB or CD to the object phono- optical FDB scmper este aquale phonic catheto CD Between parallelasEA FB costitu- you Thirdly, the space of BD, whatever it may be and how much it may have been, scraper to measure the distance AE, at the terminus E of which the voice reflected from D ends.
Data from the centrifugation of the limiting reflection, to make a mark on the orthophone line
Olt tia tia AC or CE known, center of reflection E or A, known will be AB or CD ortho- o phone, if vt becomes the sine of the angle GAI of the phonetic catheter, d if the angle of incidence ADBin CG of the arc known by the well-known mefura DB to the other operation, for it produces AB as well as CD. If you would like to know the loxophone lines AD DE, let it be not the whole DB to another, for after the operation they will come out AD DE Une ioxopho- nae qu$sitg The reason is clear from i) the proposal of the resolution of the triangles at Clauius, which
conial i probi geometri$v; r: Problem IurMStLLll-lLUh Ilb p! iwiJi
Mota Une a loxophone, orthophone the distance of the Phonic center to find the center of reflection at the point of normal flow. where
fik r From v. Ja. J Æt linea loxophone AD known. You will receive the first orthophone CD in this agreement. let it be the entire sinus to the sinus of the angle ADB portqptoti, so the known measure AD to another, ope-! By reason of this, it will appear that AB or CD is situated, and again to find the lines DB, let it be the whole sinus to the sinus of the angle of the phonic catheter GAI the well-known measure A D OTl Problem Note the orthophone line at the end oa loxophonds di slamiam of the phonetic center to find the center of reflection by tangents cutting I marked AB the orthophone line you want to know the loxophone line AD, let it become vt sinus to tus AI to AG cutting the angle of the phonic catheter 14g. rad. ita note AB pass. to another, SeprodibitADloxophonea quantity sought; the whole bay AI to IG tangential at an angle of degrees; so known measure pass. to a. liud, and the quantity of BD obtained will come forth: if BD is known, it will be moved: AB&AD will become in this agreement; let it be as touching Glad the pocket of the bed, so the known measure BD to another, and have will be the orthophone line A B. Again for the orthophone line AD, let it be tangent to GI or guli i4grad. to the legant AG, so the mark BD to another, will produce AD the quantity sought. III. Given the amount of lexicon, orthophonum CD 6c BD will inquire about this deal.
latvt cut AG to AI, thus the note AD to another, and it will be considered CD or AB, orthophones quelita Again vt AGfccansad Gl tangent, thus AD to another, and BD will come out quantity After this is done, all the lines related to the phone business are no longer they will be watered
Pro- Lib. XMagia Phonocamptica
i Problem, V. Given two sides of a triangle, find the third by the extraBion of the square root. It is first given in the phonetic triangle ADB, given the side AEorthophonù i; pass. &AC distance line? centriphoniciàcathetophonica pass by agreement. the given sides are drawn into themselves, and from the aggregate of the two sides joined together ex- Jjf. quadratur is drawn and you will have it by lib. Amen. Euclid line AD Let the well-known sides BD AD be found, the third AB will be found, let the line be a square: DB subducted from the square of the whole AD. For the remainder of the square will be given as the root ABqua located Let the two third sides be given AB AD, find the third BD by this agreement Sub draw the square AB to the square AD, and the root of the remaining square will give the line BD, which sitam-j.
Corollary. This is clear from what has been said in brief. In this way the line; phonics; in all other cases Ech is usually measured in metric. For when in the whole phonocamptic femper an throat incidence; let there be tequahs at the angle of reflection, on each side with a corner in the triangle If I know the phone, the rest will be traced, in exactly the same way as we have just written. Therefore, whether the reflection takes place in regular or irregular bodies, it is the same the system of measurement is to be maintained, qu? therefore I wanted to briefly mention this place, neither art our phonocamptic, however decidedly it might seem. PHONOGAMPTIC MAGIC CAPVTIII P R AE F A T I a CVSTIC A we call those instruments, with which, as an optical instrument, the oar these objections to us and my sense of vision are totally imperious, veiled and near we are thirsty (about which in the Arte Magna Lucis &Vmbre, l. v We read about by means of acoustic instruments remote sounds impervious to the acoustic sense, within the organs to the model of nature made with wonderful energy and courage, the ears of the re-acoustics we present, it contains the first vestibule, the vestibule, the structure of the porticoes arranged by that genius, in these certain and determined punishments, every utterance of words, however submissive nem Princes audirepojstnf, according to, the instruments of the acoustics vsumsudaftrorufabri cam, one with Acoustic Cryptohgia, or of the secret mutual conceptions shared by sounds cation, alijfquenouis abditijfimis inventions; But before we begin the matter, from
By means of the very men, to whom in the work of Orchite Bura, we have promised. experience Acoustic experiments I. Canals without siphons wonderfully cool
However, the maximum intensity of the tncretnen- then it takes, and so the sound is propagated through the channels; For I judge, sitotijphaîr$ because a sound cylinder would be given a thousand miles, capacities plm specifically, the phonon ui in the free air has no line of action except paces, in the cylindrical channel li- the glass of glass would spread a thousand miles. my opinion is supported by my own experience they pay aunt for they say that the Romans, the Princes of the Aqueducts, within the Aqueducts, had a very long space. that is, the voice should be spoken even to a tank of five hundred feet, especially if the canal has been remarkably polished, to be perceived i Experience also teaches, of two hundred feet! the channel at either end also renders voices subdued. nor is it surprising that he is pious it must be seen that the voice is enclosed in the canals, while it is unable to propagate in the long He strives to recover what has been done, which is spread in a free environment, by dispersion and dissipation He had lost his species. ingcs vti growth, thus acquires even the remotest limits of fuzepropagation. True At this point I cannot omit an important question, and I do not yet know anything about it Decilam, and what follows. ; wash A curious question.
Either the voice is included in the canals, or something else let the shield of time remain. zrdfjo ojtaon' But some, among whom John Baptista Fort a, and Cornelius Agrippa, who this they were not only of opinion, but to convince others of an infallible truth neiifÂgrip"- with whom they were born; He whispers a clean and polished voice into the longest canal which kind of sonority is left to the other ext. closed very close, within the said cana to continue the matter in this way, viz. after some days it was opened at either end, soon as if from cap t with a certain urgency the voices stand loosely in the ears of the listener. plausible, as I have received many who were not patrons, but also the most ardent defenders he was born; Wecherus, Alexius, and another matter as the most certain, the most truthful, om having experienced doubt, they declare to many even the futility of such a remarkable experiment in addition to these fixtures, they tried to protect the airs and fireplaces with flint. So it happens, while the teacher is reni unconscionable experience, random and prci- We solemnly subscribe to this agreement in order to prevent intolerable errors in the chairs they are given, if they had first taken the experiment of this matter, or had had the proof of the natural ion If they had been perfect, they would never have entered into such a shameful agreement. I say, therefore, that the water is flowing quickly Bro will be drawn, when the voice is included in the canals: and of the matter I conclude this ar gumento Or else the voice is carried through the channel through real or intentional species, to say neither can Not before, the real species of sound are nothing else than the continuous and fuccefsi of air the voice of the rider's agitation, while the exit was blocked from both ends pent, neq; I must therefore not fall back on my duty if I am left behind in a moment all the sharp agitation will cease, and when it ceases the resounding movement at the same time. And so much so that he would do the same thing if he tried to include the phone inside the canal, and he would do the same with the water he would believe that he could fehaure. Let it be spring. Gr. a canal feet AB, that is to say, in length nis, as much as Echo is sufficient to form a trisyllable; In the future, therefore, who stationed A oc he wants the voice of ver. gr. (sing) the other in station B fixed to the voice of the voice: cxtremuB when Lik the artistic magic of Fhonoc.
however much it closes, the obturation will have to be done with a type of phone inside the canal those who dwell, hence they require a very long canal, and therefore they say that this treaty is the cóclu- Perimenti
that the voice could continue for a long time, and finally open as if a captive channel to stand in the ears, not otherwise than in the middle of the free, both direct and reflected voice without going there
efficient dependency can remain. O stupid machine! nonvidenthi ìm- Refutation, the postulates a clear contradiction of opinion, for it would clearly follow from that to be and not to be by voice. For the voice remains as long as the motion of the air remains sante she ceases, for every sound depends vt in lib. i It is essentially said that I love it you are the air as a vehicle; closed therefore at each end of AB the sounding air ad Here he will be warned, or he will rest, certainly where he cannot be warned, so I show; let it be the right word ready in CD closure at each end; I say that all movement will cease neither the anterior air CA, nor the posterior DB can by any reason fall upon itself, nor reflection It can also be done by the same reasoning, that in every reflection the air is first moved, the thing itself is pushed back by bending, but here the air BD cannot be pushed back because of the air AC of the front ca give nefeij constipation At the same moment it was the end of both closed, all the air is still, and with it the propagation of one voice. But they will say to stay sound species moved there. Given, then, that I did not consent to the species continuing there; I say, however that open door B, species quiet? they cannot go out by any means, that is, by no means cas propels, existing, as the sound is essentially as it has been said, depends on motion, cook ceasing and himself being destroyed, it is not acceptable that the voice should continue in the midst of freedom without dependence on the efficient, the ciim does not at all rest in the said medium, but continuously in let the air be sonorous with movement, as the nature of the echo declares the destiny. Therefore, the sonorous species are not real it was possible to conclude within the permanent canal! , which had first to be proved. Nor can intentional species be concluded; for they have the entity of the neighboring spedes in spiritual and incorporeal? , and there could be no obstacles so great as to hinder them; 5c daily experience teaches us that the sound of even the thickest walls is ridiculous; Now, therefore, it is a foolish thing to say that he wants to control the sound of the barriers, when he closes the canal let him cross a barrier as easily as a window or a wall; So you see from in this discourse of ours, how much he centers the reason, even though he is absent from such impostors let there be reasonings. Therefore let the fabulous be abolished, which has hitherto obtained seats, dc sound channels including commentary; But the searchers of the truth, not that matter; unless the balance of reason is first well weighed, they learn to have faith. But it is so with them
hxpenmentum; The voice fer the oblong beams as it is wonderfully done frof.
St. and this admirable, though almost vulgar experiment, of the propagation of the phone in tra- with two oblongs, and this being accomplished, let the beam AB be two hundred feet, I mean that at either end A or B, no noise so small can be made, which does not at either end it is perceived as present. The cause of this matter is asked; For a voice at a distance of feet jimperceptible, inter- i. e. cta trabe already perceived seems paradoxical to many, but who knows what about the nature of sound in QuatnanC cause sîtjCur in the end beam It is oblong I let out a shriek tatus in al grind it out mo so fa cile perch he loves Mujurgia ffniuerdis We have said in my book, if he understands it well, he will find no difficulty here either. At present To clarify the section t-atqen of this experiment more precisely, two things are to be noted, first fa making a sound, which we have said to be nothing else, than a certain tremor of the colliers physically secondly, the material object of the sound, which is air extremely porous, it will also be most suitable for the propagation of sound, and especially for vibration receptive, whence the buzzing at one end B excited by the ear at A is easily established— he will perceive, dim beam by means of the sound of a single body, all excited to a shrill ce-: letur tremble, ct. cpnsequently sonorous species, partly internal air, partly external a ni Aienti will communicate with the trembling, he will see the continued trembling of the sharp voice of the vehicle, It is necessary for him to perceive at the end of his ear, the truth of which the experiments themselves testify
there, for if it becomes a continuous beam, it will loosen somewhere if you tie it with a band, or in the other at the end of the table, when you apply nothing at all, I already hear a clear vibration and a sound you can't reach the air at all, no, focus on a bell or fu kiss, , x(2orolariiiim tnaioj oiii- v. j IUL sdOiXiliJi mato: u j: SJ V he went
It is obvious why the experiment should be repeated if the entire beam is bent or it may be enclosed in mucus, for it is surrounded by earth and a wall, so that it does not tremble, it is hindered, vt therefore the experiment succeeds very well in a beam placed lightly on two supports, ad here it would be better if the free ip could be hanging in the air. But there is something similar in the beams and metallic success is not yet discovered, I doubt not, in every heart-? The same thing can happen to glass with a sound pore, because they are more trembling, polished Cleaned and polished body edges, so much better they will have a better outcome; with all this experience. the ovtdiximus to lie depended on the trembling of the long body, for the sound was made better while the body is long, rather than wide, the chords bear witness, hence the walls are thicker because they cannot train comfortably, they lack the said effect.
j J iJil v; Experiment j ii i The daily opening teaches that the sound is more intense in a twisted pipe than in a straight one to focus, they point to that, especially the tubaz, he points to the horn of Alexander the Great, that in- m Pvprrifnnn rnafTP inIP
fox propagates better through circular tubes 'vehemently and Ti. tntendtturj how per- retted.
to force a whole army bat, in a twisted circle, vt iru A the history of sounds prodigious m it was said. But it is complained that rightful cause It should therefore be noted, y that like the multiplication of light, and the heat becomes a reflection of the manifold light xion, vt in the Great Art of Light We taught in winter, so violently the sound becomes an incongruous multiple sound circular reflection; For the tube restricted to the correct sound only &jn is the propagation of the collected in the circular, however, not so much col- bound, fed& from an infinite
the reflection of the sonqr lines is greatly increased and intensified.
Let it be Ltb. IXù Magia Phonocamptica.
SWtù'bus AV conducted in the bow, I say that the sound was more concentrated in it than in the tuba cto j Since the collection of sounds in a raster becomes a multiple reflection of the same, hence ve- hemétìs'Vjuoquc intensity is born, so you see the ray of sonority from A to B, from B to C, and hence in D j from D in E so on in other, other points I intend the reflex manifold, thus opposite ray X reflected in Y hincinZj&Zina has another series of reflections, but when they enter the mouth of the tube AX with an infinite sonorous line, reflecting each one of them they will open the laws, whence there is an infinite accumulation of sonorous lines, from them by reflection a polyphony will necessarily be born, so much more intense, as the sound towards V He was more constipated. This does not happen at all in a straight tube, for in this case the sound only vt It has been said that, when collected and confined, propagation takes place without so much reflection. . iia muKp3t ly i: Corollary. It is clear that a conical tube concentrates more sound than a cylindrical tube. for he is superior to this in reflecting the species of sonority; From each side as well, Canalis, a conic, as you twist a cylinder into a circle, a conic tends to twist into a circle. you can do more than a cylinder twisted into a circle; for the circular conic from the ara-cem, which pious iW narrow meeting, the sonorous species narrowed and the congestion strongly intensified are given, not otherwise than the wind being confined in narrow places obtains a greater force, in the cylinder in the circular diaceovero of the aqueous vbique the foni is constipated. Hence the Horn of Alexander Ma It was constructed in such a way that it was widened from narrow to wide; See the truth about this a story of wondrous sounds. And the art of light and shadow?
an experiment The sound produced by the circular surface propagated, He acquires a huge TV. JF. lomu
[I have experienced many times in listening to different fabrics, the sound according to their circularity you will achieve that the propagation is very intense. It is a tower of Heidelberg in Germany
some of the pre-eminent round ones, constructed by that artifice, viz. , diametrically opposed to let them speak even in the most subdued voices; I hear that there is a similar hall in the Duke's Palace Mantuan; I have also experienced the same in the arches of great bridges. in the cupola I, too, at St. Peter's here at Romx, took the experiment of this thing with remarkable success; is in the inner cupola of the crown is of such a size that a carriage can comfortably walk there if Jn. huius surrounding the crown opposite the diameter of Joci, spaeioejEntu two geometrical feet almost opposite to each other roistissipji ji nqmobstante tumultuous noise of men and musicians. In the rest but nothing is perceived of the points of the wall; the same is the case with all the circular fabrics of the sierra It is doubtful whether the cause of the matter is to have this special effect vt propagates according to the movement of the air, if therefore there is a sharp movement in the right direction, the sound also propagates if it is paid for in the surrounding area too, it will be fruitful and propagated around speaking of the other superficies. Prrcterea, as in the circular-fuperficieson of the sphere rice let him be scattered and plan his flight, and let him not find a place of escape by the obstructing walls, according to the Having contracted the circular suDersicia, in diametrical opposition at last the counters of the air vo- culars dela. heat from the other side of the wall at the same moment reaching there it is stretched; and from this kind of confluence of fpecies, those great biils were brought forth. the intensity of the voice is born, and from here it happens that nowhere else does the snow meet in opposite places here nism But we have decided to demonstrate this matter more closely. Let the crown AB be circular, and in it two diametrically opposite places AB; te m in A any words no matter how much he submitted to the murmuring, consistent in B M m r opposite MusurgU of Vienna I will understand the words only in one place and in no other place. Since the word is circular according to what has been said, it is propagated, but its diffusion is carried out in opposite parts on the A side you will make both the semicircles ADB&ACB in equal time, it will reach the B erro at the same moment, and when the phonies are made there at once, they will be killed Sario's voice was very intense, which before it was imperceptible, just at the said point the sense of faith will begin to cease. In no way, then round point, except in the B voice I will thus prove the perceptible. To be established auris in C, in A consisting of a sub voice murmurs, I say that in C nothing will be perceived; Since the AC part of the circuit is uneven let the circumference of the part ADBC be iimum be very long, it will become a word from A In C, he was brought up too quickly, but the voice of ex A by D, Bin C carried, too slow ve niat, hence it becomes vt vnio phonifmoruq of the voice; it cannot be accomplished there, and consequently nothing can be perceived there, when therefore all let the bows received by this agreement be unequal, and be performed at unequal times by voice; and so on the intensity of the voice may also occur, except in the opposite Bxbi equality4i- every movement will correspond perfectly. ,
Corollary' I Inc. follows. A spherical quadrant, whose it could be the vault of some kind of choir, for this one the most appropriate business. Let ABCD be a spherical quadrant. Let there be two diametrically opposite places A C. I say vo ces submitted in A will be perceived in C; Since for all the lines from A to C are semicircles, the previous voice conveyed through innumerable semicircles finally in C all the semicircles, then in the pole will be strongly focused on Corollary I I
Inc sequiturscundò, this intensity of phonisms in opposites iiicuiushcmi- cycle tholi, or cupul$ hemisph$ricaepianissima polytisssim$ and twice as big-, the future, when all the sonorous lines in the whole hemisphere conjugate in equal time in C they lie
Corollary I I I inc is clear for the third time. In a sphere whose diameter is geometrical feet opposite poles, the increase of these phonemes would be prodigious, when the semicircular lines of the entire spherical surface with water at exactly the same time in oppysikvps let them come together? tumfewiift X3 bottom? words. oifthifinoo; bo: a: isr 3iiyîjci"îf; libtt92. j i. iljn lOstt ifnr s. m mouth 2unzn where rt, vi: tn: atoo v. euralin
s experience etc. Magia Phonoeamftièa]
j-jsiOb, ÎII-3 Jnonqofit bxpenmentum V. A voice in the coehleù, stue a conical tube according to the line of the helieen or the spiral the contor tosoti of all the heart of the forum aftifeimo t so the too obtains strength. xzm Av Of course, the most important test is the sound inside the tube a twisted spire, such as the screws are, for all others here that the said bodies were increased in a strange manner; nor had I ever believed that, experience had often informed me of this. I have never seen anything more wonderful than this (Antro Dionysus) Tyrant's furnace of the inner ear, constructed at Syracuse in Sicily. still alive, see the description of it in the history of prodigious sonios. Certainly nature, the wisest of all figures, in architecting this ear of snails to have chosen the tube lib. i. chap. . We have shown the anatomy of the ears of all kinds of animals. and the more perfect animals have been heard of, the more perfect the snail and he ascribes it to them more clearly, viz. , in the ears of pigs, hares, mice, dogs, and donkeys ours shines most of all ces established; For what reason, by what design of nature, is the price of work to be declared? we are Why then, above all others, does the cochlear tube tend to produce the greatest sound, this Guodiiean I assign the reason, that whatever of the conical and cylindrical tubes flows straight or twisted they have dictated, they deserve to be persecuted by this spoon-fed cone. For it is not so much that you want to play the piano. it collects the sonorous species, and reflects them in many ways, but it also reflects them in every direction behind, in front, by reflection, it is very orthophonous, and with the helix the path is only subtle it is distinguished by the diaphragm, by impinging on the sides, and not only by reflecting and increasing it sound, i. e. by penetrating into the alterophonisms he wonderfully concentrates. Verùmvt hiec meliùs They are understood. iTiC Let it be a conical tube twisted into a helical helix AMQC I say in it the words above who, with all the hollow bodies, should concentrate the voice the most; Let the vowel be in A from which the rock is propagated within the shell the life of the tube, and since the to be equalized with penetral care when I am disposed, it becomes vt pei ictuostellata that is to say, how much more where it will penetrate, so often will reflect sharper and sharper until finally in reflection orthophona very intense make a sound, so you see A the voice incident E in from the reflection in F. and hence in G, &H&I&K, &Lqu2e li nea ciun orthophona sitine fe reflected the sound violently he will aim three times; A vocal line falling in M. from there it will be reflected in NOPQ the rest of the points as stars until the orthophone RS repeat the most intense sound
ariat But since the point A is infinite? lines can be drawn, each: m dweriainteriori# x: Vnititrsalii those points of the surface always reflect more and more sharply, until in some or let the thofona rest. It is true that the point A does not become mathematical, but the physical with its perceptible breadth, proceeding from V X in a sonorous line, similar the reflection of the lions of the feruabun, hence it becomes, vt infinite linesempcr sharper reflected more sharply and they leave some orthophonist, from whom at last those sounds are violent an intensity is born which we marvel at in tubes of this kind, and occurs in no other tube; Cima pr- the tube always decreases from wide to narrow, because of orthophonisms between giu if that tube construction is in place, the intensity of the sound will increase in a surprising way, which around the openings, C will finally be the most intense; but the sound propagated by that law, which resounded within, extnr It will be propagated by an infinite number of phonemes. You therefore see to him: these are the clear reasons why in with pipes of this kind the voice becomes so intense. The truth about these followingdistinctioneckian the material to be spoken will be given more fluently by means of acoustic instruments.
v 'i). onqi tYiui#2u. ua acuì -mzioc
(L. i Jio ižrogžiflinofflaniiisnanoisoeio dfe i. d is) T? From these it is clear why animals, who possess great acoustic power, are naturally clever with organs Ij cleato instruxerit, est enimhazc timi reflecting fpecibbus nor is, tumijfdem mourning
-ìij t; mrxem: :jdo3 P R O G A S M A T i Mar: mrjiiiLl e lifby. jtgilloa taiasql. no mu m iqty oIastai oJnx. oiJJi Echotectonics or the Hidden Fabric, Music. 3int ahniii m zosslTinoaqciamrn r. uvo! acoustic instruments. V U A
SOiflHflu acoustic instruments r. i octL JìAA. a oîòa r. aldaoa Ambd rz r ciaf P R A G M A T I A I. v-oa -. uno ziup
TY E is supported by certain fections of certain bodies, the strength of which is certain There the properties are still wonderful and hidden, as if nature alone makes them wonderful let it be seen to be perpetrated by Fcferuasie; And in the meantime I will withhold innumerable others, who knows not conic: paradoxical section? these are the three most admirable species of men fvlIC b r imniMmic certain uutiuuiMMu Iii(. ujii(nauiaiiuau ijny umilio iiìilo: fiiiiakuiJkiUUlill JUll- dentesreuerbei-e qjtti s, V n i t i q u e at the point of reflection amazing effects as well as in the light I do, then they are kindled; whence the caustic glasses find their origin. : j; True, when de-lsiîce ex profilò we treated in the Great Art of Light. And Vmbne, eò Le we sent the ctor back. For this is exactly what I have been most devoted to our institution it seems to be wax, let us repeat s-'What manner, then, within the said bodies of the light of the ray j They produce wonderful things, and the sound of raids inside the said hollow can be the same conicg sections of acoustics for amazing hearing cftecttis; to serve, vsij said sections in the material describe-docuef. js)r10Iy' uunijalbi asini. mcijiibct cfiriuq pilei
cfiofiqt. rLtq dfl m aanob i iyJt uiimol mumnitinoim. n aiugiiti, DniVio i iaob fi sîinnni A olinuq xaoiyv uiA Pio blessed them, then we laugh So let it be etc. &Magia Phonocamjnica; 2js
To describe the ellipsis 'unicosh dulu'.
Vmlib. 3. The Art of Great Light Shadow, various other ellipses than the section whether we have handed over the methods to be described, we do not want to repeat them here, but we will only teach this method, qu? raechanic? Echotectonicx more gruere vidfebafur; In this way you will describe the Ellipse with a single line. Every ellipse consists of two diameters, the greater and the lesser. If so, what are they? For the smaller the nomdlipsissed circle, the more it decreases, the more the ellipse will be sharper, and the more it grows, the more obtuse the Ellipse will be, and in the circle of the sipiliqr, and while the diameters are of such quality as in they depart from a perfectly circular ellipse; A prolific note in everything
An ellipse is circular two points can be found which from co- by a fictitious preparation they commonly call the Geometra foci, in which
ijsfiat by lighting jn caustic mirrors. Here are two points in ma they have a position in the right semidiameter, and they will always be so much more remote from each other, as to the sharper the circle of the ellipse, it has been more dissimilar to the canto and closer to the truth, the more El- let them be circular in one point, which is the center of the circle. You have forgotten them. Let the diameters of the ellipse form d? gives? AB major, CD minor, let C D minor be composed in the middle point of the greater E to the right angufos, so, however, vt the extremity of the lesser from E me What is the point? After this, the foci, or the points of comparison, were made in this way let AE or BE be the greater half-diameter. from C or D of the lesser semidiameter at the end, I transferred to the circle, the greater diameter AB, &vbi the circle follows the line on both sides AB there will be two foci, that is to say in I L. found in pictures from com- by the preparation of the deeds of I L. in these two Impressive styles. around the pens of the wire twice the length of LA or IB, for within this graph describe a certain circumambulation
bet the longed-for ellipm, the thread Does the due line matter to us? LR RI that in two points IL alli the gate graph R is precisely applied to A, then from A within that graph R cir will describe the ellipsis that was formed. From which it is clear that the two parts of the thread from R extend VG, LR, RI towards either focus, always equal to the diameter of the ellipse ma iori the demonstration of all of which, see in Arte Lucis Vmbraz II. Tract. of conic sections. Problem The wonderful force of El lips sons Describe the ellipsioplast in solid material. Ocamus Ellipfioplaste that form or module whose circumduction in ma We express the ellipsis with soft materials such as gypsum, cement, or clay; for sure the egg or the plaster, he uses vain instruments to describe various figures, thus to the ellipse to describe themselves, in plaster, there is a plastic form of pus, by which it is produced, and this form, or norm, we Ellipsioplastcn, as if the form of a potted Ellipse ca mouse xSq Muswrgié Fnìutrsalu camus, so to describe hyperbolas, we use the forms, which parabo- we call loplasts, hypocrboloplasts: With this agreement you will make Ellipsioplasten; In a small flat even polished xta proceeding to the problem of the given quantity of diameters is described as an ellipse i"iC li n lis i This actq iuXta ejlipsis described in pauimento, is cut out of wooden boards of the points of the ellipse A, the sharpening iron is brought to the other B by the handle BV. to whom serram6ta subdatur acuta, vt ijsaxis ellipsis in A&Bvcjuti hypomochlijs goods can be moved around comfortably and evenly at the discretion of the worker, sten quesitam, vt sure
Problem To describe the parable of the son of Dnico.
An arabola is a section of a cone parallel to the side of the same within which it is cut. flessine within the eimfupersioie incident in parallel, vniuntur. Where? omg nia with the aforementioned Artis Magpae Lis&Umbrae librisfusè let us return, where various defcrjptiones of parables appear, vt therefore in this place no unless you propose only one more easy and more convenient plan we are talking Prepare a plane table XY to which the standard DE is applied to the right angles, so as a norm applied to the EQ side, ta-
promoted axis parabola I will therefore write a parable the right of the instrumentality of Ope, is attached to the cen o L silfi fubtiliffimfi, then placed nor ma above LB, sílfi graphio D. circu- posituinEradice standard it is fixed, so the length of the wire let LB be duplicated. Since according to the proposition of the jo. conical doctrine demonstrated in Arte om nes line from the center to the circumference of a parabola with ijs, qu hence in semiordinata ca if they are equal, will the graph D describe the motion of the norm? necessarily the parabola FBG. At whose phonic point of reflection O will you find, where on the axis of the parabola BL normally you advance in so far, that you arrange the quarter of the line NR on the BL axis tina applied to the right side intercept, for this point will be the focus of the parabola? , vt in shape etc. Phonocamptic Magic jft of the figure B is a quarter of the right side NR, and O is the point of reflection; better auteni do fi first detcrminacris point of reflection, then the right side of which the length of which I from O will give OR the vertex of the parabola, and the center reflection nisO. Problem V To manufacture the form of Paroboloplajlen. For a small amount of each plane, the traditional rules of the method called a parable is written about his worth of the state which you long for, which is yours in especially in the quadrangle on wooden boards or iron plate you cut out another described in this way, vt cut in half If it fits, it will have a form paraboloplasten prepared that figure, which the following shows, in which the apex of the Afcrro pointed sitiCD vero, handle 1MP, iron pointed axis continued in-, the description of the parable is impressed upon me to, ne surface from the change of the axis be altered; then the handle is high
ro hypomochlio picked up intra-, lime, plaster, etc. ; material He will describe the parable, gathered around, in the material sought. Problem: HyptrboUn unicofil duftu to describe from the described form hypcrboloplafienfabricari it goes to the center of reflection A; op- placed centrum. BjC ver tex hyperbolat. given to the players The hyperbole of the wire is thus de you write In both centers or points from comparison made in opposite hyperbolas, needles are cast with which a thread shall be tied to the ears: it shall be held then graph in the root-# pierced like a needle vt is clear in F, by this fora men vtrumquefilum in A&B to be drawn firm; Moved then graph F in both directions so as to move loosely there are two threads, and this movement of a parable is written that. .. form. of FbîusurgU Fniuersalis But describe the shape of the hyperboloplast in this way on the floor as much as possible the test plane is described according to the traditional method of the hyperbola, either on a wooden board or la an iron mina drawn exactly to be cut out, to which if you put a pointed iron at the top C And in EV the handle, the form of the hyperboloplastes will come out, and the figure teaches the procedure, in which CI ferrum acuminatum EVLMO manubrium hypomocholio Lfulcitum. E C V veto in clay or gypsum material it will describe a hyperbolic surface. True whoever wishes to have a greater knowledge of conic sections) here you go to Art our great light and shadow o. we discussed for here Neither the size of the book, nor the method of handling it, allowed her to repeat it.
sjvih The form of Cycloplaften is manufactured. lat semicircular form AB in ma cut out solids, the axis of which is CI armed with a sharp sword, and his hand brium O L. and you will have the form cyclo-A plastic, to describe the surface of the sphere suitable. .
Problem VII. Problem I Describe the Irnean spiral. D describe the spiral line a band of heat is burning IKcuimcuSq points; far away, Let a straight line be drawn through it t? size B A; then drink the circle is located in the hill K from A de the semicircle is written BCA; then placing the circle in the center I is described from D semicircle DG A. then again placing cir cine in the center of the other K from D de- a semicircle is written DEF. Itc- placing the circle at point D to be drawn D EI, then of a circle placed in the center of K from point another se-" and so on the rest, you will have a twisted figure perfect, as the figure teaches. This one figure, if on an iron plate next to it helix line cut, in lon gum center
mu i 1L'7 Oil it's smelly mr-mo3 Ltk Phonocamphtic magic.
let the base of the body of the spoon be thrown) next to the guide of which a hollow tube is arranged, you will give boom that wonderful prodigious sound effects. True and difficult— let us present it on a plane, and contemplate its shape in the following diagrams. C A P V T I V ECHOTECTONIC MAGIC SIVE About Acoustic Fabrics. P R AE F A T I O in the Magic of Our Catoptric we exhibited to be admired; vt while remo- Whatever in We have presented the appearance of these things with the help of telescopes before the veil the wonderful com- cst of minute things, both animate and inanimate, We gave the hope of hope through the microscope; the same this present trafla- campticg ap We trust that you will be able to represent us from the remote, while the voices of co-rl but the insensible ones listen with wonder to the instruments of the coar blowing the sound of such a life and the ashes we whisper in our ears, as from death to life not undeservedly they can be given; Which indeed we do the more willingly, the more carefully the business is done. Jpeflatius; and let no one persuade himself that we will deliver them here, whatever in his theory let them have certainty, but in practice I am dedufla'nullumsortiantursucce; And certainly not let Le flor convince us that there are no schemes to be presented to us here, the infallible certainty of which ex Unbreakable trials, beset in various parts of the world, did not first render us safe and secure derint, but hescepr
De he atro V umidian Echceis within the same difyofim. Faith IconismiXVJ. jigJ
k In the structure of this theater of Echas there should be a variety of opinions, as great as the Author's the disagreement can hardly be explained: since almost none of those who in Vitruius com they lied, let him show that he understood that rightly; But why is this difficult? It is usually done by the states, while most of the others are unable to penetrate the business they substituted the written opinion for their own, and they did not appear to have said anything, or neither did I He shows that he has drawn the lingering matter through the sieve, passing the water in silence, as if it had been dissolved rent Consider this confusion only from the ignorance of Music, which is evident from the curn sgpius matter, I thought that I would make a valuable contribution to the work if I treated echotectonically about the said Thea three structures, I would insert my opinion in this place opoitunè, and such a famous one at last I would explain here that they were equal; What will happen then, I will bring the text of Vitruius.
Vitruius therefore lib. y. chapter The Echaean Theatre he describes this agreement. Taq; from these researches, by mathematical methods, wax vessels are made for the reason of tnagnitude- in the theater, they are made equally, but they touch each other, and the sounds ro, diapente from order to dsdiapason. PoHea intersedes of the theater, connected to the rooms in the manner of the mufica they shall be placed there, so that they touch no wall, and have an empty place around them, capital space, let them be placed inverted, and have suppositories in the part which I sent to the hay blocks, so that they are not less than half a foot high, and opposite to them the cells are left open to the lower levels the beds are two feet long, half a foot high. And the designations of them, in which places consi- they are saved, they will be explained. If the theater is not large in size, the middle of the height of the cross- This region will be marked out, and in it thirteen cells will be furnished with twelve watery intervals there for those Echca, which are written above to the net of hyperbole resounding in the cells; they are in the heart they shall be placed at the ends of each part first; The second from the ends of the diate {will be made to the net diazjeugmenon; the third day sfar on to the net of the parameson; fourth diatejsaron to netemsyneme- no; the fifth diatejsaron to the mesn; the sixth diatejsaron to the hypaten meson, in the middle one diates- saron ad hypaten hypaton Thus, by this reasoning, the voice from the stage, because of the center The nation, carrying the reeds of each of the vessels, raised the sound of the voice and the concert conuenientemfibiconsonantium And this Vitruius. Let the vessels, therefore, be so constructed, that when they are placed, when they are touched, they give the sound of symphonies all differences, viz. diatestaron, diapente, diapason; diapason &diatessarooi diapa son diapente disdiapason, that is, by reason of the interim, sesquiterty, sesquialtera, double double sesquiterties, double sesquialteres, triples, quadruples, with which Pythagorean fexphtoges. they closed all the voices of the concert. Vt veròhoc prgstent, loaeexta, which cells Vi-, qu? they must not make any noise, since they would make no sound at all, nay while the poor were made deaf. Let them be in an empty place, for they will resonate better, having the highest head— parts space, that is, the voice in the stillness of the beers, without reflection, with its reflection multiplied more strongly let it become clear, he wants to be put inverted, so that the voice may better enter ri wants, that when exposed to freer air they would resonate without hindrance as if they were ringing ours, at least half a foot apart, openings also from the opposite side he leaves the cells two feet long, half a foot high, through which the votf would go out. Vitruius shows in these passages "in what place and in what manner the saying should be placed. " vessels If about the middle height of the theater part of the twelve equal parts thirteen. It is divided into cells, it is clear, that there will be two m of outer horns, one in the middle, five; both from the middle to the extremes. But in the extremes, which he calls the first, vaya vnisona. let them be to a larger vessel net hyperboleon sounding, that is, the fifteenth, or disdiapa-
lon, hence the greatness of the tequals to the greatest vessel obtains the proportion which drupal The second vessels were detested from the ends to the net diazeugmenon, that is, they were nylon, and to the largest vas fon en t diapason diapante, that is the twelfth, let them be in threefold proportion to the said vessel hypates hypaton. But the vessels were in the cellars on both sides in place they should be arranged in unison they must not be in a two-sixties proportion, so that they sound from the top. .I put the vessels in the rooms in the fourth and third place, and let them be united, and to the greatest vessel the tuning fork resounds, and therefore it is necessary for the medium to be said to be in double proportion so I have found in this place a remarkable error, which cannot stand with the music of the precepts they testified to neten fynnomenon, that there is no reason for the faina harmony to subsist can The expression, diatestaron, must therefore be deleted, for in this way it will be completely corrected ror, by whatever reason he finally crept in. Give the other vessels in the fifth and third places let them be placed, and be united, to the greatest extent, or the fifth resonance, where the other Book Phonocampic magic. aS s In what proportion must they be to that? Interualla à diatessaron ad mefon significan there The vessels should be arranged in the sixth place in the same way, and the larger diatessaron or sounding a fourth, whence they must be in proportion to the said vessels. In the seventh place, where a vessel is placed on the greatest foundation, you exhibit hypatenhypaton, To what is the rest of the word consonant? is unlocked. True as Lectorme Let Vitruuij take hold of my mind, here the consonances and proportions of the vessels to the contrary it was thought to present to the well-known musicians Disdiapaphon diapason diapante Diapason diateffaron Diapason
Disdiapafbn diapason diapante The diapason is a semitone Diapason Diapante Semitic 'A i You see, then, in these preceding two schemes, you will strike two blows to the vessel, the first being itself. ' Whence the mind of Vitruius, the other according to the arrangement of the Neoterics. For cn vessels next to the diatessaron diapason with the diatessaron in the third or sixth place arranged ad or we have changed the ditone, so that the consonance of the ame vessels would be greater, as in scen so the diagram is clear. But having thus described them in passing, I have already described the form of the theater in Vitruius a little we will show more, for in this way the place and arrangement of the vessels may be better illuminated. performances in the great MLK Theater, whose first harmony; ; fertile Chromatic? ; third diatonic? a symphony? let him answer. Cell? in each there are thirteen according to the description the view of Vitruius; MOP of the Xystus theater or ambulacrum. And Echa? a eneas with his wedges placed on a semi-pedestal a little apart, moreover the most free in the middle of the Cells (vt in
supreme disposition vr forum monica the top floor shows cell KL) are arranged in this order. Two vessels in the sky The flowers are CD, and the fifteenth note sounds to the vessel of the MP cell, and they are vt to i that is, they have a fourfold ratio between le, that is, they resonate with the vessel MP disdiapafon, fiue vt said estdecimamquintâ; vessels, however, were sealed with the following cells numbers and of the size of the fish and water, to the vessel Echeu MPle have, vt three ad. one, that is, they have a triple proportion, that is, they resonate with the twelfth MP vessel. The vessels numbered and of the size of the vinson and water, to the vessel of Echuus PM ie, they have a vt of eight to two, and they resonate with the control of the vessel. Vaia, indeed, the cell they have a vessel marked with the numbers at MP, ie two to one, that is they have a double, and they sound like MPoctaua. This patio features semi-pro- the portion to PM sounds the fifth. Vessels and are one-sixth of the proportion to PM so On the fourth day, I was detested. Finally follows the basic vessel Echuum MP, ad that all the rest, as has been demonstrated, are proportionate. Where to note in par in those theatres, according to the description of Vitruius, fit the lowest order of the floor in the middle to be transferred, the chromatic diatonic floor dropped
but for the theaters, in this case, the theater according to the height in four by four arches in three con the lineages must be resolved, and then the lowest harmony? Mati, to be attributed to the third diatone; But how the rest of the chromatics dia Virruius shows in these words that the vessels of the tonic floor should be ordered. But if the size will be larger. The black, then the height of the druid in par te i ot tres effi nor And from the bottom, which will be the first of the harmony-collocemr; so vt in minor theater then it is In the middle part of the first part, in the extreme horns, ad'chromatically hyperboheon ha they are put down as bentiasonites: they were disobedient to them; to chromatic diezeugmenon', I n ter- tijs diateffiaro ad chromaticensynnemeno', in fourths a diatestaro chromaticen meson; Fifth diateffiaron adchromatically hypaton diapente, and adchromatic meson, diateffiaron has a consonant community, in the middle there is nothing to be placed, that is to say, because there is no other quality of sound in the chromatic genre of the symphony You can have harmony with it; In sum, indeed, in the Diuislone and Region, I will brew one of the first horns to the diatonon hyperbolxon the vessels made to sound are placed; insecundis diateffiaron to diatonon diezeugmenon, ter tijs diateffiaron ad diatononsynnonenon; in the fourth diateffiaron ad diatonon me the fifth sound diatefjaron ad diatonon hypaton', the sixth diatejsaron adproslamhanomenon in the middle ad mesen, quod ea adproslambanomenon diapason, di at an on hypaton, diapente habetsym phonetic communities. True, it was set before the eyes of the curious reader with a very accurate description of the theater, and a ne I still think that I will try to discuss each part a little more precisely. Vki note us in fig. I. Icons. having left only cells open; on the top floor in three cells we have represented the size, position, and shape of the Vessels At the end of Echaorum, the second floor was open, and the interior of the cells was con We set up a platform with on which the Echaean vessels were to be superimposed. On the 3rd floor, I presented the internal constitution of the cells about which order to be dealt with individually. s Of the Cells. There were thirteen arranged in order within the inner floor, so that from one side to the other, but on the sides each passage or canal he would have a dam, through whom the voice propagated into the neighboring cells and increased ever greater and greater then Lib. Adagia Phonocampitca
then he would take The shape of the interior of the surface of the cells could not be other than that of the Cycles ca, because it is the most suitable for propagandizing and increasing the voice, which we have described here. Ma the size of the cells corresponded to the size of the theatre; cell? do not compare but they had an opening from the outside either square or oval, two feet long, and half a foot high, depending on methods we in lpacijs CM DP loculations i, the rest in order certain cells de- we drew a line, through which indeed the voice of the commanders insinuated itself there with various reflections it was multiplied, and when it was multiplied, it was finally driven by various gyres through the lateral passages (which we have depicted in the open cells of the MLR, and on the side) in the nearest Cells and each one by one the matter was shared in the cells in order; It was not surprising that such a change had been caused the money of the theater I said through the lateral passages, because without these the voice gains its strength He could not at all, because he was absorbed inside the cells without exit. Of the Echaeans, there were many vessels.
Cha? a ctTToru à by sounding thus (said, or place the holding vessels in each of the cells they agreed to this agreement. vt cell ML indicates that the infusion of the vessel was inserted with great energy, vt very freely he would rely on it, not otherwise than is usually done in our bells from time to time, for I put on spikes placed vessels resonate better, when there is no obstacle, what is the vibration of the bell? im
to be able to walk Could not the shape of the vessels be other than that of ours? bell has with which they differed on no account, for it could not be angular, because the sound im- pcdissentanguli; nor spherical, as some want, since this is contrary to the mind of Vitruius, let it be that he expressly says that the vessel was open at the bottom, and supported by wedges: it is like other mortars they think that it was, to which I do not contradict, that it was exactly the same as the pounding mortar and it does not differ from it, except that the mortar is somewhat more compact than the bell. Have it therefore they cast something, for us? with mortar and pestle. for this is the best of all the resonance of the essile taught by experience, for many centuries; we fuse in the treatise of the cam We showed the bread.
How did they learn and on what basis were the vessels of Echaia stimulated? There is a controversy here and there about stirring up vessels, while I can't catch many They are how these harmonic instruments produced the sound. Some think 'Vasa' they had hammers attached to iron wires or cords, because they were attracted by bells let them sound, not otherwise than it is usually done in modern bell-shaped organs, thus Ca? sar Ca- sarianusinCotnmentarijs suisin Vitruuium. Some of the only airs from the voice of the Coma? agitated by the impetuousness and impetuousness of the instruments of the phonuissca. However, this cannot stand. since there is no sound sufficient to raise any bell; & it is clear in no you will be bells, if only by shaking them they could ring sharp, I would certainly say they are perfect they will produce your own sound when they are perpetually exposed to the air. and in a very high place where the wind dominates much, yet no experience has taught us that the wind is too strong. no matter how impetuous he had caused a sound of this kind. Yes, as some of this taking experience of the matter, I took care to cast glass bells, and them Vitruvian myself I carefully arranged the situation in the hollow places, the voices were all fruitful and intense I applied it, and yet no sound of any kind was perceived, but only a ringing; quality it is usually felt in Stlocis-concave wells. They want, however, for the most part, those cells to be hollow, and that the vessels had only been used to win a great resonance in the theater, which they did not deny Echioruiru shape form mouth, Try it then the phone chOium-i How Eczci vessels m harmony they would be encouraged. ofyiusurgìrtF ntuersalà no but what is so ingenious in proportioning the vessels according to the harmonic consonances? I do not see that they have contributed so much to the immediate end of the industry. To what end The distribution of enharmonic vessels has been ordered, I am able to discern the least, when I finish All this would have been useless to the actual symphony, and no other way. Or, therefore, it must be said, only to increase the voices of Cerandus, instituted by the pig, or any other person vsiirn ha it may have been, but it is not verifiable that Ecclesiastes is so harmonically skilled because it is only major that the resonance of the voice was compact; nor can it be said, that it was proved a little it was that the voice alone, made by the thinness of the air in it, had been stirred up into a harmonious symphony. Whence Bonauentura Cauallcrius in the essay on the mirror of Vstorio pute cells hafce Vi- truuianas, vti Ech? a partly parabolic? , partly hyperbolic? the figures to which the voice it entered into a stream which was increased by an infinite multiplication of rays; as this for but, he brings forth a much different structure of this theater than we read described by Vitruius, for instead of a voice he imagines parabolic vaults in the center of each cell The sound of the parabolic tunnels is diffused and multiplied to infinity, a wonderful effect. he preserved, both in the intention of the voice, and in exciting the Ech? s. True when I said vt, this in agreement, he invents a new theatre, of which nothing is read in the Vitruvian limit, Archi He seems not to have been satisfied with the roofs until now, when he abstracted from the text of Vitruius one of them; Echxas wants to share new products easily. The question then is how this tea through which they would have such a resonance, and how the vessels were arranged to be so clear the effect which the Historians report to have been produced Note therefore, the double harmonic
the sound is to be considered later in this manner of Echxis; the first was done by ringing fiue the harmonic boom, the harsh external voices, the cells undergoing, and various agitations to them? at last, with a multiplied sound, and as if by a kind of attack made in Ech? a's vessels, I tin him on account of the shaking of the vessels, they returned it; attracted by the coles, and settled in Echrea without sight: it seems that he was the son-in-law of the former, received into those hollows and there multiplied a greater resonance he would acquire, as it has been said, and all agree with me in the Commectators of Vitruius; which indeed was nothing else than a certain symphonic ringing, from the tremor of Echxo- rum caused by the various harmonic proportions of the distnbutor, the other vfus could fuiise in the pre- ludijsjautintermedijs For they would excite the hearers, and expect things with them they would sharpen the turrets, before the persons entered the theatre, when Echaea had been sounded but they could not make a sound, because the iron wires arranged with their hammers were led through all the cells. For this thread has been carried through all the cells of the industry with one quilpiamhi negation species liter appointed, all vessels in harmony pe. most effective in stimulating; What are the items in the Cells? they raised a mighty noise, perceptible far and wide, and so great admirable of reason, how much more secret was the design of the Musurgics; And this was precisely well, Vitruius insinuates with these words: He excited the boldness with clarity and concert consonance with each other. There was therefore a concert of the vessels according to the consonances of the mu the tics of the musicians, but such a powerful concert cannot be made by the absence of the voice alone After what was said above, I was brought into harmony by means of the said reason by means of hidden cords father, fonuere, that &fubolfccit C? far Caesarianus aforesaid. And based on this reason I do not see that any other method could have been used to incite them into harmony they have been For by this same artifice, as Pliny testifies, they exhibited thunder and other murmurs. As for the fact that Vitruius does not expressly say anything about the said ropes and hammers, this is done with this idea is that he himself had never seen such a theater, but only received it from the Greeks rit: Where is Aristoxenus, whom it is verifiable to have existed as the Aurhor of this kind of theatre? He frequently alleges that he follows the precepts of the same, but he himself is more doubtful; nor any other of this just as the theater in Greece or Rome was formerly that Corinthian, whence Pericles witness the same Vitruius Ech? a taken away to? desFortun? We read that he suspended Rome; Etcer- It seems that Vitruius himself had some objection to the construction of this theater I was one of the most experienced architects of the time, than myself to propose and solve these problems He contends with words. Icon. . XVI Tom. i. TolnSi 'True TheatnViiruuiani jvrmee description A quarter of a cubit from Milan m&m nytiuuiiUll HnììiìIJlIfflìfiSlLlUill WHEN iiisuiuiilitn. iî j î j i
Ltb. IX. Vhonocamftic Magicians a
Perhaps someone will say, there are many Theatrx Romx festivals every year, and there is no reason for these of things in these have been: J'ed erred in that all public wooden theaters have floors ca sarees, which neceJfeeBsonare. This, however, may be noticed even by the cytharchs, who are superior tone, when they want to sing, they have warned the audience, and so they receive their help in unison the wealth of the voice But when theaters are made of solid things, that is exsruBur from cream rum, a stone pm armor from which they cannot sound, then they are to be explained from these in this way; If you We are not able to show in what theater the Roman Empire was found, but in the Italic Region with them and several Greek duos. And we also have the author L. Mummium, who destroyed the theater of the Corinthians, he was exiled from Rome, sings Many skillful architects, because of the want of earthenware vessels, so by this reasoning they accomplished the composite works more effectually.
And to this extent indeed he was satisfied with the opening of this theater Vitvuius, as his cause of the whole mu
Thus he promised the foundations of the theories, but in many cases he had doubts, difficulties, etc currents are not prudent. If he had had perfect knowledge of music, he would never have He would have been opposed to describing the echoes of the smaller theater in the Enharmonic genre; with this to con to be presented because of the various noises in the defendants' vessels that were useless let it be, that we have tried the book fuse: nor could it have been sealed, that those vessels were so exactly cast they had been, every day and every day they had distinctly exhibited the most falsehood among all; Diatonic Therefore, the kind most suitable for this business ought to have been used more deliberately; For when you let n and diape be used in the enharmonic genre, what else but diatonic describes From this it is clear how many things are hidden even in the monuments of the greatest authors ronea, with which if they were intimately discussed, or in the very sun they would be exposed as a disfigured spot. Wherefore I gather that it is probable that Vitruius is of this kind of theatrifabric from some rnanuscrip- that Aristoxenus simply described it and exhibited it to posterity; Since much in the sayings of the three ge they meet with the description of the cords, which do not conform to the rules of music. But I hear some muttering, that Gingkos had many things to admire they were thus adapted to such an incomprehensible energy and art, that they were awakened by a single voice they have been The truth of cumhuitismodi contradicts all experience, even about it no wise man should argue; unless they have convinced us of some secret intelligence that she had stirred up the nation at the sound of her voice, which was ridiculous, and I will not say, foolish rete: Estemuoproper to the admirers of this kind of Grocanic things, dreams for themselves to imagine, and by any means to establish his pleasures, even from reason and experience inconsistent with to think I would not, however, deny, as it has been said above, that some symphonic tinnitus from the recitation of the comqdorbfusse perceived in a way experience I give above us that he was by no means sufficient to obtain the intention of the former; a testaceous vaia Inserted into the bowels of the walls, into it a sentence should come for the reason that it had been arranged for the same reason, except that the resonance of the theater had been increased. They greatly hallucinate the sweep, when the so-called Hippodrome nor the form of the theater, mul tò ihmusqb. the noise, resonance, of running horses and tumultuous men I say, therefore, that those vessels are shell-shaped to relieve the weight of the walls say in the manner of the present day, we see the cutting of fubleuans in the tophacean vaults that it had been inferred; And this is what we have to say about the Theater of Victims. let us turn the pen to something else. '
Prelusion I I Of the wonderful Echo of the Villa Simonetta of Mediolani. Not about a mile from Milan outside the gate, where it is given to the Hortulanus, it is lost. is that most famous town, commonly known as Simonstta à Comitibus of this name, who m. vi possibly Atujurgitf Vnlucrsalis they possess, so called Ferdinando Gonzaga built an oil factory in this town. The ruler of Milan is not so architecturally symmetrical as the wonderful Echo, you are holding a nobleman; in the upper storey of this structure there is a certain window, vt It will be explained a little later, in which the voice uttered will be vigcsies four times, and vo for intensity They say that they can be multiplied even further, as if to infinity. When do I complete this? I had received things worthy of trust from the Fathers, great for me, because of so many reflections He felt a desire to investigate. Therefore, the whole structure and the location of the place, of which the most exact I gave the care of lining up to P. Matheo Storr of our Society, a man worthy of faith, and not less distinguished by his varied learning, than by his genuine candour, who having measured the structure of his fabric minutely, that one with the scenography of the same others Circumstances concerning me sent me propcdiemad. Vitaquequestet que- namsit so portentously Echus cause, fabricate the first fertile dimension of the parts from let us place it folded before the eyes of the Reader. Total height of fabric, vt exJzg. II. IconsXF. It is clear that it has two floors
If the breast is torn. The lower pcristylijs is proud of the ambulatory. K Area strata stones The upper storey has three parts worthy of consideration; the first is the inner and principal part of the palate then the two lateral and parallel ae difficulties whose dimensions ha? are j Width FXsiue EM. it is 6z of the pastures of Milan, and four of those of the provinces; vt proceed more exactly in this matter mus, in the fourth part of the passage of the middle wool we decided to say; The height of the FL or XM is feet and feet. The length of MN or HL steps steps The width of the walk HE pas. above A window from which I echo it is only concerned that in the middle of the exstipremolocus of the wall is signed the letter RS; But that these should be sufficient as to their size. Itaq; that RS window is the last and only place to hear the Echo, for it does not resound elsewhere. But I received the testimony of many, by voice thence sent twenty four times, even thirty times, and more for a greater or lesser voice con tension returned No, I think that the reflection of the voice is not certain and determined But the number can be multiplied ad infinitum, in the same way as in strings vibrations, the blows of which appear at the beginning sat luculen three times, but at the end I am They disappear with great speed, and the sound gradually dies away. In the matter of mirrors also the same appears in bending. Is the cause of this Echus complained of? I answer that there is a reason the parallel subproportional distance of the duodenum holding the position. Pre- when the said walls had experienced the highest equality and flatness of all roughness. they have, the voice is reflected in the easiest business. I saw a thing so I show it. Let them be in the polished shape here, the walls AC BD parallel the pianist, twice the distance of the voice having a proportion of syllables to be rendered; I say from the window E the voice sent by the sepifi- Ediometrically propagated from E into passing through the same place the road returns to E; from E again to I, and from I again in E, fic with infinite alternate repercussions, until A voice weakened by too much rep shock will eventually fail. Not otherwise, and the ball, which is between two narrow walls alternately strongly affected, after each other the nose fails after the rebound finally ceases. And there is no other reason for this than what I have said it is certain that there is a mouse, because when according to the proposition The angle of incidence is measured by the reflection of the water gul, Echo cannot be done for any reason in any perphonifmu its normal lE. cylindrical, founded between two parallel walls. For if alse wall parts verb Gr. A C would reflect the voice, the angles A C would necessarily be right, but next to cake. are acute, and the voice in other parts of the verb Gr. by K N propa gloves From therefore, from no other place does the reflection of the voice appear so complex; although c6- be careful the cautions of the fubstrudion vti Se box the intermediate wall to increase the reflected voice to lie, and to make a clearer sound, let them make much more of the Vitruvian Theater we are And this is the reason why there are also many wells and cisterns for let them make such a reflection of the voice. Let ABCD be bring water to yours; the opening of the lid of a well or cistern stt ceiling cistern; LA I say the voice of the intruder I put it down for the reason that the phonism in pia you can see the calmest surface of the water EF inci at last he is weakened and fails; A further demonstration lest it need not, when it is evident from itself, it is therefore evident that it is caused multiple Echoes in Villa Simonetta. Book X Phonocamptic magic; bee Corollary I of these, it is agreed that if someone made a similar fabric, that is, two walls, about pastu distance would construct the distant ones, he becomes like an Echo, when distinctly nothing else is required to render the voice, a distance proportionate to the snow, which will give pasture But if any one should make a cistern or a well as deep as many pastures, he is Echus he would also inhale the dung. Corollary I I And the non-fustrations being neglected, there is no area or intermediate palace in many
It was built with windows, not a walk, to cause a prodigious echo, but as I said of the most flat walls, and not hindered by any roughness, made parallel, stra must necessarily be acquired in RS. For if it were made on another side of the wall, the same Echo it is certain that you have, and perhaps in the middle point of the wall, there is a much larger window but let us leave it to the Architects to consider. And hee they are, which; of Echo Village; Simonetta; We wanted to describe a few. Prelude I I I We Aure Dionysius survived Syracuse. Amofistima's device [today Syracuse in Sicily is still proposed to be spedan da, to another the prison of Dionysius the Tyrant, to another Auricula, to another by other names lant, built by that genius, that is, in the region of the door, stopping anyone, whatever he spoke it has been, it has been betrayed and it will be returned with a multiplied sound. Of this with much in part exAuthori- but, partly from the report of others I had not heard, his scrutiny in the year with Syracuse I passed by, attacked, and finally discovered the reasons for it; Mira describes this with special care bella inlchnographia lua Syracusana ros vrbis Syracusana, who is occasionally called the prison of Dionysus, and who thinks well of the artist and the industry, which the Tyranno was architected, will see another reason for this manufacturer if it had not been so, the captives who were imprisoned there would not even have breathed a sigh of relief. lest they should be heard by the keeper of the prison. And it was àTy -anno in the form of the ear to nature It was cut out of the living rock, which was driven into a narrow channel ending in a cube lo the keeper of the prison cave; it was insinuated as fuprapofito, so it was done as all or mini-
Musurgia Fniuersalis the noise of a mouse, or the whispering of screws, would be carried away upon entering the room keepers, wherever they were uttered in vain, as if they had been prologues; today muttered voices of the channel blocked up by the wall; live in the beautiful and wonderful Echo they did not say whence la grotta dellasauella, for the voices are not like the rest of Echi He returns equals, but raises the low voice into a cry, the sound of excrement tru exhibits, the percussion of the mantle made flat with the hand, might be seen as the explosion of a cannon; No, no he only concentrates on the voice, but repeats it several times. Hinccanon the musician at two here cci- being silent, he soon broke into a concert of four voices, while the voice of the first, the voice of the first, was reflected He receives it beautifully, a matter entirely worthy of hearing. He taught me how wonderful the bow is covering much about the engineering of hidden sounds, and the doctrine of concealment exceeding all the captured, which when I will explain in the proceedings, here longer ijs re- I didn't want to give up. It is true that we would not seem to have put anything in the way of the curious reader I decided to attach the gure to this fabric, that is, from the shape itself, the cause of the wonderful sound of the neck gat This ichnography of PP. our Syracusans, with the utmost diligence from the rock-clump To the delineation of the miserable Rome, the eye-witnessed testicles contributed a great deal Masò Soc. ours; A student of theology, well versed in the science of mathematics. Ichnographiafteciu Syracusanae Dionysius CJJyranni drawn from 'Vtuosaxo' A scale of wools, each of which contains buckets of fathoms. The fourth part of a palm of a shekel. A. Planta or Ichnpgraphia specus. B. The inner receptacle signifies that at vlnas& 4palmos rises; the opening towards the roof restricting itself together with the wall ad vlnam Book Phonocamstastic magic.
vlnam i palmos C. Introitusin the cave, irne gate. D. Finisspecus, whose height the border of the dinis rises to vlnas i? . F. A channel spans wide in the cave itself he had dug out with the greatest care the ceiling or the upper rock, and here the shape of the canal was reduced to the entrance of the distant i. and finally from the same passage 6g. ii. of wool in height, and in exactly the same way as you see drawn here, its circle F, F, F, will perish Note that at this point the first figure to denote a plant, at the end of the ichnography of the mind of the cave whose fertile shape he specified, to which the parallel walls
guarantees; not, however, in height, when in the beginning it was smaller than in the fire, as said it is, to obtain height. E. Denotes the window of the dwelling of Dionysius, aci than cana li, FFF is terminated. He saw an oblique canal, excavated in the rock, without a trace that he had so much power with the cochleatoantriduct, that even though he had lowered his voice, he stood perfectly i n the chamber E. At this moment another wonderful building, Papie still survives, with that artifice structured, that is, existing in the door, let him perceive the echo to a prodigious miracle, Nam. He seems to answer the questioner three times; so distinctly so exact the lingular syllabary pronunciation, vt many not nature? the work, but the demon was compacted there They persuaded the implicitors to themselves, and Hieronymus Cardanus was among them, that indeed It is strange that a man of genius, and of a secretive nature, should be threatened unadvisedly, but listen the words of the said Cardanis, who describes it in these words in his book on subtlety. echo Hieronymus Cardanus of Milan in his books on subtlety hb. of Mirabilis, impresto Nuremberg he says at the end of the fic book. The third watch is a pure, asynchronous type, in which, however, in many ways we can see wonders dyes; as if the Echo were resounding, then it is most complex, as sometimes the voices are heard seven times to return I know that it is a wonderful thing in a wonderful way, and it is not a common thing, no matter who you are set to terrify, so clear are the voices, and sometimes returns slowly. Cause e si aer, qui à pla nis repercussed, causistq; for they do not echo in caves or walls, but spring from old ones. And more distant than near: Elidi's voice in Echo kills you, acpL. Multiple cBperstpe: we heard threefold. Not only in multiple words, but they recognized the examples of the ancients who had been rendered seven times: True in Pa pious, the great basilica of Ticinum, called Sate by the Italians He sends back the voices, as if you cannot count them; The thirteenth voice is heard: they were with you many of these, and among others an eminent professor of the medical art M dehic r M alheufc r Germanus, no a dirty student You would have believed that it was answered by someone, or from the game: I felt the voices die out, and the defi- they say: Whence the strange manner, Mwx. e, which in Latin, alas, is referred to as dying, and of the voice of the doer There were several square windows, one on the top and the other on the sides threatened Both the front and the walls from the opposite sides are complete, and the door is in front of the snow it is here, length a foot: about a hundred, breadth fermes; resounds and multiple voices fi juXta pa the other one from the front of the door will stand. It seems that he was then returned from the sublime side of the door. And so from both sides, and especially to those who stood outside the door itself, the voice never rested in the middle. Whence no one can doubt whether you are a coward or a sycophant. For Echo can scarcely be believed, so clearly, so readily, so hedged, and in a certain order, all the voices are heard by the height, dimi dio, as I think greater in latitude; for the excesses of hxc esi b file a It was decided to describe it like this: men, where such experiences have been found, or they may set up another example. I received from astd- in front of the entrance, a portico had been placed in the region of which a large part of it was also peres', and much better comfort was returned to the voices blowing outside the cellar door; And in many places. more often, and with greater strength, vt which sometimes resound three times: be certain, vt is brought forth more quickly, the more I spoke and the more exciting the voice, the more clearly and the more frequently I rendered it. True, since not so long ago the complete ad in both the quality of this Echus, as well as con stitutionis fabricx v formationem dederit Saluator Scarducciusè Soc. nostra Sace dos Music? I am not ignorant of the description that has been transmitted, and I will here opportunely infer it xi, so famous to the curious reader? And the account of the famous Echon would be better known i This is the way it is. iEdisiciu is in the Ticino region, commonly known as Pauiasm, the highest region in the region The reason for the horse ex folded—i. Another echo thrown in Wonderful jokes cul-.
this castle, or Ducal Palace, commonly known as the Salon, was once called the Arsenal, once for public games It was thrown in a warlike fashion: it is a storehouse of furniture, its shape is quadrangular his degree? It is the arms of the Romans, up to the ceiling; length arm the rum of the Romans; The width of the same has two gates, one facing the front Borea stretched out Roman cubits in height; width only once In the part of the front opposite to the southern one, windows are visible, the middle of which is left who is greater on the sides; below which the gate is spread lem, through which access is made to the portico indicated by Cardano, a workshop has just been planted, de the writing of the whole device: how much indeed it does to our institution, brcuitcr ex We have established, therefore, nothing remains, except to explain the reason of such multiple echoes. Aper of these northern and southern gates, from which it is almost paces away from these small trees it is, Echo to the south closed eight times, and each closed six times only he answers in the middle; of which there can be no other reason than that of the walls, Obstacles outside the gates, species of open gates for the ratio of distance in proportion to the number of hundred bending but when the gates are closed, when there is a smaller distance, there are also fewer refles it is necessary to have xions; It was observed, however, that I took this echo with the greatest force to have, reflecting in bisyllables, as was said of the Echo of Milan; The natural voice is best suited to form this in Joco Echo, but the artificial voice through trumpet or drum, the intensity of the sound confuses the same. (The account of which (we have shown in passing) it is written, however, that if the trumpet or interualla vt interualla vt, musol; per monosyllab ba, Echu formare concentu n damn it, run away from the endecaphone, it's a wonderful thing to hear. Echo has more here the different properties of those who cry out in such a long position j for it appears differently, in the middle those who cried out in front or on the side, and in another way opposite to the gates, those who mantis in the middle; of which there is no other reason than the position of the opposite walls] jn which is reflected either through an artificial or a casual distance; they reflect various amusements on the ears. For the fourth reason he alone does not know who has either not read our proceeding on the reasonings of poeticism, or who has read it rit, he did not understand. But in the present day they do not reflect the miracles of the voice, as they did in the past at the time of Cardanus and Blancanus, the reason for this is that this place is now in various places filled with the apparatus of the law, the multiple reflection of the voice on the foot. And obviously The proof of this matter is that from the western side there is an obstacle of this kind when these are placed they are seen; especially when dispersed by fortify And these are the things of which the famous saying of the Ticino, Echo, I said. Of Mantua À ula, other things in the famous Palace of Duke Casravolat The Thames fuser fîtte, his voice wonderfully intent. In these two halls, nothing else is to be seen but a canal similar to that which in the Crypt We have described the Syracusans; in each of the said canals through the middle of the tholi into opposites the throat is led into a gypsum incrustation, in the form of a semicircle, to the width of a few palms, impres pig; at one end indeed, when it murmurs with any kind of noise, it is a kind of phonon channel on entering, and likewise spreading, when they cannot escape, necessarily from the opposite side they stand with consistent ears; craftsmanship is easy, and by Architects in every shell it is easily induced by meritorious building. He wrote not so long ago to another wonderful Echo, which: in the valley of Mount Vefuuij, nouiter fe exemit, P. Jacobus Bonuicinus, distinguished Soc. nostro Mathematicus, language very expert in rum; Echo was born from the destruction of the place, after the last fire, In the industry of the digenes, established by chance, while the various canals, for the waters of the rains which, by deduction, against the waste, the necessaries of the vineyards, they cut off at the same time
and who spoke on the highest summit of the mountain at the mouth of the canal; voice through My channels rare force ha propagate through channels and increased by various reflections? , at the foot of the mountain to the channels walking so perfectly that you would swear to address yourself as if you were present. You will hear from time to time in this place, only by nature chattering, the shepherds conversed with the distinct voices of men- let it be so, that there is no one in the neighboring places emerging or appearing, that you should be prodigal to many. it was held in place But let this be enough of the prodigious echoes.
P R A G M A T I A I. To mock the prince of the Halls of that day I concluded that it should not be heard in the same cell, or in another.
Some thought that this was done by the secret passage of the canals, viz. Porta, viz although the canals are brought down to one place in several concourses, so the Prince applying the ears in the orifice of the concurrence of the cacklings of all in different voices, the voices bent voices he will perceive, if this thing is to be understood in this way, what is said to the rooms submitted through the canals col, =re2adl the screaming in the ears of the Prince, it is false, when the voices in the Chamber for! at$ in the mouth that the channel should be gathered at least; so that in the middle of the free, variously scattered and absorbed before they have reached the canal, when they are already languishing in exhalation, the mouth of the siver is applied ca voices were murmuring within, there is no doubt that the Prince He will distinctly perceive the mutterings of the nails, for I am not only with a leaden pipe, but with another we heard the voice of the glass joopedes in the earth. He must stand on his feet but the tube should not be too wide, nor too tight, but the truth of the tubes should be for the voice. the width or diameter of the transmitting bus must be three inches. For the drums indeed, the canals and pipes will be able to assume a little more. These tubes when Ium mu- why rub; mu I think that they produce a better voice than when they are exposed to the open air This is not the reason, except that the walls do not admit of a notable tremor, as dddtiâ if they are free; but the trembling hinders many from projecting their voices, while, in their usual manner, they are airy easily confused. All the opposite in the beams and other solid and oblong bodies exposed, it is found in men, that they lose all the power of a muttered voice, so much the more true. they acquire the power of advancing the voice, the more free the means which has been shown above, it happens in they have been exposed; for the tremor of the whole: a noise excited at one end, a solid anger at the other at the end he stands, Trembling in the earth, or walled up gives, it is necessary to lose the freedom of propagating one's voice. And although the matter is very simple through the canals, it cannot be denied that many ca with the help of such secret deductions, a completely paradoxical post was made; if the worker E-Èxperimen. and the dexterity of the savants was due to his life. Chemistry taught me the truth of this matter you will find a certain underground factory without any hole or tunnel from a single channel below by bringing down the smoke, and a very small gate was furnished, with which to close any voices at the extreme end The canal orifice was perfectly presented, not without surprise, I give this experiment better, something like this, no doubt, was effected by the Prince of the palace before my predecessors I persuade him, but in this way Echotectus should order the matter. Let the receptacle be open to a few men, pal. longuvtsequeti fig. patet, so much rsi, high t otide, width in figure KX reports spans, height DV as many palm trees; let it have a very small and low gate A, which can be closed very tightly, as a matter of fact The straw is also brought to the side of the thickest crystal, so fastened to the wall, as the voices inside resonating, the sound can escape neither through the window nor through the door, but through the reeds lem DE which was led through the secret passage of the house in the concian F, so when D tholo Camene (which is like a twisted cone according to the purpose of the type should be very polished) How you will continue, so that a continuous surface can be seen; At the other end of the channel
he must have an opening in E, so that the outgoing sound can spread freely. that finished fabric. As soon as the door and window were closed, Ca mere AD and whatever voices he utters, the sound of those sounds cannot escape him,
Pcr Book IX Phonocampic magic. zpj oMufifrgitf Fnmersalls through the conical surface D variously driven by the radius fq; The DE tube will finally enter. 8c in the same place, coming out in E, the man who had established himself on the wings of F Consequence inc it is clear, the music in the receptacle AD exhibitsamper the secret passage DE nu F conclauipetfetiè will be represented. But if any play of various sounds from hiber desideretjvarijs huiwfmodi receptaculi by leparatos cubes deduced in F nego it will be easy for him. Separate acoustic receivers sut ZSN through separate channels om nes in the Prince's chamber he signs a letterFj led; see the figure of the priest, where men you will see our theme better explained.
They would arrange the fabric in this way only in two areas located on the bone and may be heard by no one else. Uv o ii u i j N various Princes of the palatijshuiusmodi are looked upon for amusements of sounds: of whom inj Echonic history; How, then, can the Prince build such structures? I can say it.
First, therefore, should the Fabric be round like a cupola? fig. exhibited in pra? sets, and reduced to the tequalilstm surface by means of a cycloplast, j
but basts become the perfect device of the round and the wall between the bafin and the principle of arching ca inYurri kholi interceptus. Eigura tower Echotectonicg, cuiufmodi olim Heidelbcrga? m palace a certain Pa-Palatini obieruau, I thought it should be added here. Atholussit, BAD hemicycle, ambi- fcergenfis bet admirable, vt st who enters, and treads the ground a little stronger, the team he hears the sem and thinks that the jin, standing in the middle, makes the most reionant echo. On the opposite side places LiklJt. Adagia Fhcnocamptka.
IccisFG The scope of the CEFG is nothing so submissive to the power of pronouncement as from the other inF or when G is established it is not perceived. effect is common to all round devices in Echo just as we have shown in the preceding passages about the cupola of St. Peter; Like what Mantus In the suburbs of the Duke's palace, I hear that it is perceived in a certain way, fed about this elsewhere. nothing therefore, in this kind of fabric, something else is hidden from the artist), unless it is to be stolen: the model of the tower should be made but in such fabrics the surface must not be obstructed by any crown, the whole interior fed the surface should be continued with the end of the interruption, for in this way the sound will be propagated better.
Pragmatism I I I Aulttt in parabolic surfaces to be brought down to the heated di[ponerefot in a certain pun With the help of the ear, let him perceive anything that is submitted to him. Let the nature and property of the parable be discussed at length above, lest such but if you commit any error in practice, here some difficulties arise I took it from you; It must therefore be known that the parabolic surface is considered double can be obtuse and sharp, the more obtuse the concave surface is, the more fo- each time the acoustic point is closer to the vertex of the parabola; but how much the same surface will be sharper, so far will the acoustic point be from the top of the parabola, the point au tem fiue convergence of rays, is always in the axis of the parabola. Second to know, vt emnesline fono- they converge on an acoustic point, kill them sarium csse, vtlinere sonor$ inside the surface concave parabolic incident, to the axis let them be parallel; Hence if it is a parable of fate they converge at one point. But little by little we will demonstrate more clearly; let ABC be a parabola, focus D, I mean the type of voice not in point D yadiaturas unless all are brought to the BDE axis parallel For the voice from EinO& I will radiate. (for the voice above through conic phonisms we have shown to be propagated) is certain according to the fact the reflection throats given above, the lines from E in O I incidents, not in D, fed in X refle oaths; for in this angle it should be cut: equal will be the angle of reflection. Again, if the voice from established through the axis, it will radiate into its cavity
I will finish, the truth is indeed the only tannin the ray will be reflected in D, but the others, divergent radiations outside the axis of reflection the centers of the foundation vt in the sonorous line from G in in the incident, hence reflected in D is clear, line veròexG inR radiating neither in D nor in X, but in P; You see, then, the voice radiating sharply within the parable, to render nothing special, except has been set up on the axis, for then only one phonism can be conic linearly at one point torradiabut; sit phonismus ABC parabola BDC, fonoru sitin axeparabolg AD; the dichophonisms of the ABC conicilines are concaurely incident on the parabolic surface, reflections in D. since they all base a circle linearly on the concave surface of a parabola which is the same as the base of the cone, you will surely reflect under the regalness of the angles fixed fixed axis point. Whereas this cone does not appear to be visible yes Enter the lines a parable in one place then the heart parallel networks let's go it is unintelligible; Phonism conic ia parabola different through the axis he acquires, liue revisions Pbonism cylindrical incidence-i a parable to the point all line: come together Jvlira wasp rebel vo the food is packed going
ujurgttf VniuersalU but if it includes infinitesimals and smaller ones in itself, yet not all of them in vnG stura, but each acoustic diuerla on the axis they will form centers, not otherwise than in hope It is connected with a hollow spherical body in which he radiates) bright incidents, not inj one point, but different radiations It will form different centers on the axis of the movement If indeed pbonism is not conic, but If it is cylindrical, then I will sharpen all of them sound lines parallel to the axis in one point of convergence, of which the demon see the article on the Art of Great Light Vmbrei Having therefore duly disposed of these; if it pleases you, a similar device in the palace then to construct', in an oblong certain ambulatory you will conveniently install it in this agreement, in with the help of the extremity he formed Paraboloplast is described as a parabolic surface the axis would be extended, and the parabola would pass through the center. Let there be a parabola at each end of the walk; the former ABC, the latter GEF axis vtriufq; common let there be foci vtriufq parabola HI. sonoru sitin O pucto axis EB in the middle. What if it will radiate with a conical phonism, it will have some effect, but not so intense as the parable he promises the speeches which have been said a little; If indeed the phonism had been cylindrical exPOR
propagated in both ends, the ears being established in either focus H or I, which of he would star, he would find; for all the line? sounds? no matter how low the voice pours om lest, reflecting on H or I, there they intend a strange kind of sound. It will be understood therefore in Hvel whatever was whispered in the middle of the POR But this will be chinamentum so much more abstruse, that the parabolfuerintotusiossssiinc for it sits, vt foci much beyond the concavity of the parables; for the hearers will be astonished to perceive those voices under that determined point in the middle of the air, yet neither Who, nor any other surface within the ambulatory? the head of such a prodigious phone can be No, they would consist of six different points of PXOYZR, from each of them different things they will be able to indicate the consistency in H or not even to warn neighbors that it was carried out in such a desperate manner. A parabola consisting of a veritable foci in H, opposite pa whispering the rasp, he will manifest whatever he wills in the consistencies of PXOYZR But if vm only from the said fex ver. gr. inP wants to speak consistently, through a tube in a pun which G parabola? faith necessarily stands safe, and the ray of it is necessarily reflected by the nature in which it falls. Lib. Phonocampic magic:
Xllta tfictfjodtts Erfennus, in his harmony of vniucrfali, gives a different account than that here fubiunga, what is to be thought of it, can be judged. For when he saw the phonism cy- the lindrace is difficult, but the conical is not sufficient wax, double parabola, make yourself something better He says that hope is real, a parable? for it is hollow? May
ri, another minor one, whose focus would be on the previous c5- mu nisjobuertit with that agreement, vtphonistnus falling reflected in the greater concavity into the lesser concavity, hence finally into the parallel lysmum outside the concave major surface, (which? according to the size of the parabola? smaller than, it must be cut) placed behind the ears it would be parked Let the greater parabola ABC be the lesser DEF, so to itself applied in turn? snow let it be a greater parable from VvsqueadP cut out, when this is done let the sounds m X Y. linca? - quesonorg XT, XV, YP, Qjqua? incidents in the concave surface of the major, will be reflected from there by G in S R, atXT&XV in N Oincidétes then they will be reflected again in LM HI, until then they stopped with their ears in the cylindrical phoneme HILM established. Why is this beautiful? They have a first look, but nothing let them be successful in practice. For for the very few lines of which ma is capable the larger the parable, the smaller also the very few, pa rallelism significantly weakened finally through smitten, so I dare to say, the manner which in-j We have described it a hundred times better than before. Nay, Mersennus himself foresaw the difficulty of the matter at the exclamation of that Velinus he fled to another but not much better. for it is clear there can be no success in this scheme both for the said reasons, and for the fire, which with a parable for both? be common, more energy what Archimedes would need, for that matter almost to be arranged. Let ABC be a greater parabola, to this the minor D is thus opposed, as a suitable figure ret, but let it be connected with the faith bolica, trumquefocum common in E. With this machine so arranged, it sounded? line? ; from G F to the concave surface of the major in falling, from punctisonxh not into the fire E, but into conuexum the surface of the smaller parabola: D re bending, and at last the sound of the phoenix cylindraceo will reverberate in R ears au worshiper But who does not see this and that? there is nothing honest in itself with the art of speculation; I will prepare another liese phono campteos augédx ra that Difficulty in the beginning come back a lot they can which theory it proves îabricz hy- perbolicz raucous V niuersalis For the smaller parable, besides the fact that it fits with difficulty into the focus of the greater one, I add a few He also rejects the reflections and thus of the biles into the connected minor, vt constituted in 1R scarcely think that it is possible to acquire any particular increase in voice, yet you do not concede that it is given so remarkable is this increase of voice, yet I think that in practice this device will difficult, that is, he can scarcely have any success. There are many fruitful theories very beautiful, that they can never be brought to work, and that this same thing is not the case It could be said that we sing with a special interest in this area of intention and acoustic production we would put forward anything that had not been previously verified by experiment. To whomsoever therefore, by means of parables, the intention is to establish an acoustic structure, which is not other than what I have said let the mouse proceed according to the method, and an infallible effect will be accomplished. for it is not necessary that is, parabolic surfaces in this echotectonic business, so to be mathematically exa developed with the help of paraboloplaster. For when the line will ring its width fa indeed they have a significant acoustic center, not a mathematical parabola, but He alone can not know that the physical is preceded by its magnitude, who does not have precedents he understood. Pragmatism I V
Hyperbole is a fabric that gathers together flitner esons.
Now that we have spoken of parables, I will also deal with hyperbolic exaggerations are to be given, as, therefore, nothing is to be said about the fuperficies of the hiiiusraod In this walk, he will describe any two hyperbolic surfaces, one with the ashes c ustis cis, in which the ear is constituted not otherwise, and in parabolic, voices as much as a mouse. he will perceive the miss è prolata; Let us therefore hasten to other things. Pragmatism V. They aim to build amazing elliptical machines. R for the rest of the conic sections of all this echotectonic business
ma is the ellipse, whence we have taken the elliptical fabrics of the spindles to treat; What is true? The ellipsis, let it be and how it is described, has been said above. therefore to the institute. Elliptical fa The tholi of bricas have this peculiarity, that in the free middle are two femperpuncts or ce they give birth through Let the first form of EJipticoplasles be as long as the oval tholi required length. Therefore let the vault be ABB, of gypsum; to this in the poles A B apply the Ellipsiopian form; Let the acoustic centers be C they should be carefully marked with and the circled form
ellipse Ellipsioplast inside the gypsum semicircular motion for so long; until the perfect ending, the vault will leave an elliptical surface, and the structure will be pursued he stood still, and no matter how much he fubmissed the words of Protuleric in C, everything was perfectly established to be distinctly perceived i Since the word D is in any way illegible in the elliptical dome fempcr would be re-echoed in C, and there infinite species of sound, at one and the same time to reach them, there the intense lpecies stand perfectly in the ears. Note, however, that the surface must be as polished as possible, like a mirror to be more similar, it must be impregnated with water diluted with glue, or even with gum arabic, for in this omncsrim minute roughnesses? they will be removed and the voice will reflect better. Pragmatism VI. Slliffin the acoustics in the palace so conftitute, njt the two princes you came together in separate conclaves, about any subject I thought present to be able to converse. St hocmaximg utilitatisin mutual communication of advice found, pluri for it is important that the plan be secret and removed from all the knowledge of men, lest before but ÌII5 scale; and the approach to the exclamations of the Prince should be seen to be ordered, unless it be of great that important business plans may be communicated more confidentially, and more efficiently, so that they may meet. How, then, in the art of Ecotectonics, can we be anything like Architects? therefore two different princes should be appointed to the councils, safely and securely they can share their cilia with each other; the device must be established by this technique. It is assumed in the same way, and within this Ipacium enclosed by two walls, it forms an acoustic ellipse twice, established by this artifice, as two ellipsis foci are terminated in each of the fe nesstrellis, to this end you will have ordered and scuttled, but a demonstration to the eye the matter will be better revealed. Let there be two exclamations D E, fpacium between them interjectummurifque con closed, let it be DE, within this fspace with the help of ellipsioplastce, a hollow elliptic dome etc. Phonocampic Magic. x i t t. J U-Li t when you describe the gypsum inside, and polish it very accurately; of this ellipse of the site of the elliptic oui I concaved the acoustic centers B&C perfectly matching the D&E fencstrelles in both con- to lock the data of the organized works; and a perfect secret fabric is to be had, for the Prince is in the pdnei. B, the appointed fcnestella uttered the words even in the most submissive manner, from the second Prince into the old neck When the arrows E have been established, they will be distinctly perceived, as if they had been brought forward; qU1 for it is scarcely possible to say how much increase the voice acquires in the hollow of this elliptic oui; For whether the voice be carried up, or down, or to the sides, they are all in the same hollow; so daughter-in-law Mujurgie Fniuersaìit îîor lines in C will be reflected there so intensely, as in B the words are subdued before the voice brought forth, let the open cries be seen in G. Here I exhort all skillful Architects, Vt let them make an account of this so wonderful mystery, and learn to apply faith to it, they were not without reason, (g3 to extend the utfspace in May. "T And if any one were willing to construct a similar work of art to the remotest place, y is the object thus desired within the two walls determining the assumed space, for- Mentur or elliptical oua in exactly the same way as in the previous figure fa you see that it is And the ellipses must be constructed in this way, viz
the folds passing through the foci are cut one by one. vt is clearly shown in the following figure. In this figure within the walls FG HI. elliptical eggs should be arranged in such a way that the acoustic centers Let the power be common to each pair of ellipses; so the ellipses AB the acoustic center the point B is common to the ellipse BC, and the acoustic center C of the ellipse BC is common to the ellipse CD; center D acoustic ellipse CD. is common to the ellipsis DE; ellipses therefore fruitful CIULUS. jjncasyx passing through the centers will be truncands, so vt each ellipses? I'm going to blow it up they could see; I have to prepare a sign of secrecy. For already established, if anyone or under They were whispering in a very low voice, and I was heard so clearly by another fifty-five feet apart as if he were whispering to his neighbours. Na all the sonorous lines in the elliptical arch AB. reflected in B, they converge as if in the center, and there the multiplied and intensified waves are unconfined and each of them advanced further, in the second elliptical arch they formed another reflection in C, and in this center they will again visit and multiply and enter the elliptic portico CD, and there the reflexes will unite in D, and from here finally again in forniccrcpercussion, tande intense multiplicity will reach the ears set in E, which sonorous species are so cla he will perceive the matter as if the prior had been established in A The demonstration of the matter is now clear hil pister flgurg consideration seems to be required to understand the same. Corollary. From the statements it is clear how many echotectonic miracles have been proposed from this single pragmatism can be achieved, surely this machine? with the help of a musical concert of all kinds you will drink, and no one will be able to find out where it came from or suspect. True to the ingenious Reader let them go on, to find innumerable other things, Frag- 2ivMl6 M I take LvwmWMivj SMiSJSS IfaaiLmmw xXxîEà 'V. xwmWwxwxwA' IVxxXWWW àXXàâE WàW
S&S Lib. Phonocampic magic. Pragmatiâ V I LI to arrange the tube in such a way as to make any articulated sounds in the interior I concluded that the public, no matter how much it is removed, must pay back the diftinfte and they should come close to the ears, and no one would be able to come up with a smoke. See Iconism XFl.
The most powerful and most admirable of all is the Echotectonic machinery We have deservedly reserved it for the last, since there is nothing more admirable in natural magic I do not know whether it can be done, but in order not to detain the curious reader any longer, I will explain the matter in a few words no, it is carved in a natural rock, even though it doesn't demand, in gypsum, clay or the top of a cochlear tube, or a spirally twisted cone, is spun with this genius, vte- It should be the least open to any public place with a small population. a flushed, exposed orifice; and the other end of the tube into a small hole within the interior of the tannery, and ends removed from the frequent the interior must be polished as much as possible in stone material, or if the stone is rough after a long time, the inner surface will be coated with gypsum for a more polished finish when the name is finished, I say, there is nothing so secret in the opposite market-place, or public place, who regards the orifice of the cochlear tube, it may be said that it is not transferred by means of a screw it was stored in a tannery. In this, then, I hear the voices of various animals, hidden you will perceive the murmurs, the singing, the standing and shouting of men so distinctly and clearly, as if would they happen in the very camp, without anyone even suspecting it? whence so prodigious sounds the effect should be: Contemplating the fabric in iconism XVI. next, where the palace reprazfentatiu letters ABC D. cochleariis tube inserted into the wall or cut into the rock G. of which orificium H, its terminus E. forum L; in which nothing can be uttered so secretly as that I have proposed not only parabolics, but Scelliptics, and all that, as many as they have heretofore so? they are, it surpasses in length acoustic fabrics, when compared to nature; model in ear device
observed. be constructed, with infinite reflections of words whence the voice is miraculously intended) scateat. rizótaliautdediuivt G, or vertical, as PO, I set up; vterq, produces notable effects, the vertical is more powerful, because the voice is easier upwards than downwards; it is raked; We re-examined the passage of both tubes here in the Iconism: But we find this a wonderful device on the occasion of the ear of Dionysius) of Syracuse of Sicily still survives tis, the description of which is given in the Echonic history given a little above. c2ìig ression of the Spiral Cone. Vrverò in the contorted cone of the helix there is such a force of multiplication of the fgfti, it deserves to be given to anyone it must seem strange. It is certainly a long time since I have been dealing with this business the guitar, finally the propeller cone twisted for a certain reason, I don't know what parabolic feed I have found out that in which there are infinite conglomerations of sounds while they are being made, it is not surprising that is, to obtain the force of the sound by multiplying the eumin. It is well known that a parabolic line can be given as a helix curious to understand; Let there be a helix line within the circumference of N g n o, marked with the letters a bc d efnjdic. Siaxisparahola; G S is assumed to be the water semiperimeter ngN, the circle nONg. thigh the dinata parabola TS is assumed to be equal to the semidiameter dg of said circle. Then the spring tice the G axis, the parabola is described GT qu? by termitiufemiordinatg ST trassat. dico, GT A wonderful device acoustic through tube co chlearum jo Mufitrgì# Vmuersaliâ the parable of the helix Ììne a bc d efn the waters iri. All things depend on different motions, queir This line is similarly and equally described. For if the tangent of the parabola Gpi in They will be equal to the semidiameter of the circle the motion from a to g is equal to the motion from Gin motion cxN by g h i k n hemiperimeter made from hypo- the thesis of equal motion from G in through the axis of the parabola fa- cto From this it is clear that j-if you smoke the femiordinate equal GN or double ST, eamq; in continuous parabola ap folds XV between GV GX, parabolaGTXdouble ma. ioré would be a helix abcdefn, or eidé twice fumpt$ water ri: : If indeed the hemiordinate is triple the diameter a g ma if you apply more in a continuous parabola, you will have a parabola helix three times greater, Sesie in infinity. What? I would point out everything more clearly here, unless I read it for others I was reserved. It is therefore sufficient to know the power of the spoon tube at all c6 paracolic tubes to obtain something common. What and therefore I have brought here to indicate, vtTyronibusadhuiuf- inexhaustible ways, nature? the gauzes should be more closely examined I would add my mind. fMJJUI- pragmatism X. iJ it, t The construction of the otic tubes acoustic instruments or in v commodum Sur da siro throw rum No matter how difficult the process is, do not use it he will have difficulty in making them: since they are all as circular as they are parabolic, i. e parabolic, elliptical tubes constructed in a smaller proportion, applied to the ears wonderfully aud'- then they strengthened, among the others, however, the elliptical &cochleate tube was paler than all the rest they seem to spring out, let it be an elliptical tube acusticoruu m precise auri surdastr SC, the other extremity of the speaker BV repondeat, vt appears in the following figure, Otic ellipses. Ellipsis Oti ca furduihis to be applied Another tool is a screw tube, which is used to make a gold pattern having been appointed, Sitimiras has the power to gather the children together, his figure follows.
III. înflfùmentaad exèmplar aurium ammaliò great acoustic force polle ntiufactâ, tite2 They also have the power to strengthen their hearing Among foreign species, the most admirable device is the aurisleporinx, which is pollinated with the most timid he becomes an animal, and completely unarmed, his nature hearing this very acutely, and the tanks of the enemy from with a cryer to warn of dangers, and with feet or arms fit to run it seems that So if anyone had a tube fitted to a rabbit ear model
oticum: he found it wonderful in strengthening the secret of hearing; he has that organ of the genus ausPfab7 at first the external ear is very long and like an elliptic involucrum cattila- Cal. gin, versatile in every direction to collect the sonorous rays better within it, then from a narrow space to a long and narrow space dilated in the same way into a cochlear three times threatened, that membrane extends to this screw, as in the anatomy of the tympanum we said, with the hammer anvil stapede; therefore the ear's long and versatile voice The caernofum is collected in the internal passage of the ear, where the only reflection is increased, great it will violate the cochlea in a meander, and there the drum will not be heard, it will move the internal air, That very acute sensation, which we marvel at in rabbits, occurs. For If you therefore compare the energy of the otic tube, you will find something surprising by strengthening the easily heard, as I said, the secret.
Indeed, in this imitation of nature we would proceed more securely, with some animal au We took care to make the ears of other powerful people by means of the most demanding anatomy, which we In the first Iconism II we exhibited the hidden nature in the organ au having brought the fabric into the open, to shape the work of the art of tyx, and the otic tubes af you would have done with the energy. Pragmatism. X. From the storehouse of the natural Magi I will make a statue of every kind pronouncing both articulated and inarticulate sounds.
There are various theories about this wonderful device; Who is the statue of secret phi- Vtl. a they follow the dogmas of the Lophophants, they think that this will be done at a later date. For Alber- can be done then the large head of a man, which could perfectly pronounce articulated words, was admirable to anyone they came to have finished their skill; JEgyptiosquoq; to have made various statues articulatè-quidli- Ces expri bet-pronouncing, we have shown in many ways in our Oedipus the Egyptian; Some mat euiuf- but that as nature? rejecting the contrary to the laws, stmile device to be made ai afterwards they cannot at all persuade the stbi; But the machinations of Albert the Great and the Egyptians or that they were contrivances and falsifications, or that they were constructed with the help of demons, that's all scn in the manner in which I once read that the demon gave answers through oracles and statues with an articulate voice a mouse, they say. Many, however, think that a statue can be built by that genius, viz. The statue of Mr. life force activities muling
FmticrsalU Can you pronounce some things articulately? larynx tongue extera que vois instruments appari. posse, vt OWliroata manifestum articulate vo cis provides the effect. Whatever may be said about that famous head of Albert the Great, the costeric one We do not wish to discuss the machinations of the Egyptians, but the very fact of such a prodigy, We will bring it to the greatest extent that it can be brought into action, and do not promise it with mere words let's see each other; in this place we will teach how to make a statue, which is not articulated only, but and he utters any sounds, and answers to any song, any of the animals will affect voices, and innumerable huiufmodiaW fané it's obvious And so you will be smitten; In coclaui ABCD, in which tubuscochleatus, in pragmatics descriptusde be led in E) or in the vertical tube S the statue should be made with a mouth and movable eyes and whole body ris situation breathing life, qu? how can it be done, in our static Thaumaturga from pro he will be taught in his own time when he is tired; this statue should be set up in a certain and appointed place, viz. let him answer precisely with the conceit of the cobbled mouth, and you will have a statue of anything articulatè uttering, perfect co nsumm atamq; For this statue perpetuò. garriet, now uttering human voices, now the voices of animals, now laughing and giggling; now to sing, from time to time you cry and howl, sometimes you exfu#la the most violent winds is heard with astonishment the words spoken outside of men within the tube of the snails received themselves within the mouth? for tus fpiraueritisintracochleum received, the most vehement winds I will state euomerum
will force From whence applied to him the pipe will be seen to play; If you blow a trumpet, the trumpet will sound get, in numeraque. he will drink See the diagram of Iconism, in which the shelter or penetrative of every human CPA- Let ABCD be the secret of strength. Now the statue is like this E, the tube screwed with a very thick wall DE inserted. be G, the hole of the tube wide open will therefore touch IHK, like anything in the public in place, or brought forth into the forum, and collected within the mouth of the tube, it is returned to the tannery at the statue of E. If you put the tube of faunccochleate vertically; the thing will have a better effect according to what we have said in the preceding. Icons. pa tet MN, in which Statue S, tube screwed OP state? mouth inserted the public Epistles of the same T; whose the voices inside the mouth are taken to the statue and are brought to the ears of the bystanders perfectly as before they stand see the figure, which? innumerable other ways of arranging these tubes will suggest. Pragmatism X I I would like to conflict with the statue, as if in the manner of Echo the words he uttered, he repeats. Ota here the pragmatism depends on the local situation; Let it be A, the statue set up inside a screw tube inserted into the wall BC, and in the region of which an object is placed the optic D, in that position you close the window from E, while the voice is emitted, it is reflected from D by the tube of the screws B should be entered, and thus, in the manner of a gyre, the voice will finally animate the statue, while he uttered the words, he would soon faithfully repeat them, no one suspecting how it might happen. Innumerable similar inventions to these inventions, and in the opinion of all, magic, may be made with the aid of Anacampticaeartis, which; all the ingenious Architects to be ordered to leave we leave, as in fig. appears as follows. ANA Book IX The magic of Phonocampitca? ANACEPHALOSIS NATVR. AL1S MAGIC. I say that a statue can be made hanging in the middle of the air as well as any other I pronounced the articulates more perfectly than the inarticulates before. Therefore we call this proposition anacephalous, whatever it may be until now the descriptions of things to be admired have been given, and here they are included in the epitome of Ajmiranda must be contained in a certain way, for what I am about to say is certain and indubitable, as far as it could be, it was wonderfully proven, while I decided to make a poster of your Magic I mean, whether everything is set up in the middle of a certain chamber, or even suspended in the air so that bystanders may indeed see and hear the prodigy of the state of the speaker. yet they cannot penetrate the cause of the sacrament so hidden: They will be surprised at the movement, the lips and the tongue, the agility, the life of the whole body they will gaze with astonishment at the breathing structure yours, or what secret movement I have had, no one will be able to detect, when the statue is suspended in the middle of the air, there is no physical reality, it is contiguous to no channel, and there is no soul mats on wheels; but with a kind of purely natural artifice, and combed with various hidden arts not even established. Let no one, however, persuade himself to promise me Jijycrm; I promise they can be brought to an infallible effect: However (not so sublime art the mysteries of the canaries and the great ones of the sun to be revealed to whom they would obviate) con I led him to suppress the sultry silence. If they are true, which ones? of Albert's head scattered here and there there, I would certainly say that there is no one in the world to architect such a head at all You have posted the technique I described. Of such importance is the combining art of which only with his help are all the mysteries of the world revealed, whatever is obscured in any science and it is admirable, it emerges, that he who is calm in the investigation of mysterious things is fierce What tinny jo Musurpa Funenalisfm Artu Consoni Disom among the tiniers he will find nothing so closed and hidden from him as to penetrate intimately, and it is not worth doing independently; For all the secret nature of things is hidden in a certain application of things cation, fixed and concealed under the senses and under other names, which those who would extricate them fe
I think that Phocylides may properly be said to have been properly informed about this. IPofCflQS THE MAGIC CONSONANCE And dissonance P A R S V MVSVRGIA THAVMATVRGA, SIVE Of all kinds of Automatic Musical Instruments, fiue Autophonus. P R AE F A T I O BSO LV T A MagiaPhonocampticanibil reffat something else, nifi vt mode offe- we give, by what means all kinds of musical instruments are cooked by that genius they can be born, even if they give any harmony to the igfis; He will hear in this par- LeBor is curious about the voices of hidden organs, and all kinds of self-indulgence with fiduciary instruments, a concert of Animal Bells, vo- profit, he will perceive voices of all kinds with wonder, and each and every thing about this strange, rare, and hidden business, LeBorsincere he will find it abundantly and curiously delivered. PARASCEVASTICS PRE-GYMNASTICS I. construction of the Aeolian Chambers in the nfum of the organs of hydraulics Pragmatism I JEolias Chambers to be manufactured. We call the Aeolian Chambers those which are made by the wind from the falling waters: vehemently the blasts make them mad, exceeding the intensity of all follies. But they have This kind of stone is the most important of the smiths in all business, for here in Italy here and there the ferraris' workshops supply a perpetual wind for forging tools. Organo where- Lîk Màgio, Phonocamptica
and especially hydraulic, because they supply abundant wind, the drum, they also turn phonotactic. They call upon animals of all kinds to animate the drought there and others, most of which will be abundantly mentioned in what follows. They can or tem Aeolian Chamber? I decided in a few ways. The first way, in the Icons. X A hollow receptacle of the form you see here must be built from the sides; In. at the bottom is erected a marble stone reduced to a very polished surface; From Ave- TÒ the channel is drawn closed A L. which is open in A, below in L. thus par- s A E is joined together, so that the air enclosed within finds no other exit than F; Aeclia? In addition, the chamber in C should have an epistome of water? ending outside? apt. In F fine the channel is brought up by carrying the air, commonly known as the port wind, and would have a finished engine. For the water, either from a spring or from a river, which has passed through the channel A K, enters with a great rush, the cochlear canal (which must have the spirals of the vaid and the pnecipits) will discharge itself; through which with a great quantity of compressed air, it will slide down upon the polished surface of the stone with a great rush, and with a great noise; but from the rushing waters with great force and by the agitation of the spreading drops, the air enclosed within the town will be agitated, which the bus is constricted by narrowness; while he was preparing his exit, he did not appear except through the canal. through the chests appointed to receive the winds would fly him with the utmost speed, and so at last through the head wind will be supplied with pneumatic organs. But why did we use the spiral lyphone, why the polished surface of the stone for a few I explain Knowing, therefore, that running water is full of air, here is the greatest abundance of the same in all the catadupes, the reason for which is the fate of the demon He lays down the foam of abundant foam like snow, which indeed are nothing else, but what is it? shall I give infinite? , all filled with air, of which there is an infinite multitude and constipation the water puts on the white and snow-white color of the linen. Let it be so, the water through the canal. Why more ac AK was soon launched and plunged into the channel AL by the spiral bends of the va- the thing he has infused into them, reflected in vain, will also generate a great deal of air, which is fruitful in Cylindraceotubo it would not be done, for in this skin it would find no obstacle, as Cylin- rushing by a simple slide, not so much air and feces will fall into the stone as by the said di: aceo a winding channel; The water, therefore, passing through the aforesaid canal in abundance of air, on the surface of the stone rushes with great force, and learns from the four watery parts sion, a new femper, and the name of the air will be generated, which within the concavity of the receptacle, constrained, until he found no other exit than through F. through him, with the greatest impulse of the noise
and he will escape with you. But let this wind be perpetual, and not a receptacle for the success of time to be filled with water, hence we ordered the epistomium C, by means of which only the femper aquiexor It is told how much it was brought in through the canal. And so at last they came through will be petted
Pragmatism I L JEolia Camera to manufacture in another way. . At the same time that I wrote this, the Supreme Pontiff Innocent X. He commended to me the care of setting up a hydraulic organ in the garden of the Quirinale had been given, we constructed the Aeolian Chamber with remarkable fane success, with which? reason The length and height of the Chamber was AH vtfig. Icons. XVIII. teaches, feet, la- stability roughly, constructed from the sides, in the middle it held two diaphragms CD&EIin the manner of a sieve pierced with several holes, a little below the channel G bringing the water in was carried, in H the same epistomium was preparing the exit; Water therefore through the canal G. ma- jio qsMujkrgia V niuersalis siue rushing with a sudden rush, the most violent coming soon aroused him within, who was too winded imbued with moisture, it would come out purer and purer, They were arranged in a violent manner, for within this the violent agitation of the water had torn and broken the air it emitted a purer and finer through the A channel. But when it was found afterwards, the more air, the more moist, the interionb, the organ meatib. to cause the greatest loss; hence, in order that the watery air might acquire a very dry consistency, we arranged a plume canal beum QR is twisted into a helix of a vessel S somewhat more capacious in the manner of vrnte formed and inserted, for inside the lead, and the tortuous channel, the air the moisture was thus dried up from all wateriness, as if it had been poured out of the oven into the organ protects consider sigurameiusin Iconism, no. i; Vrnam signauimushtera S. canal helicum siue tortuous letter QR and I found this method the most suitable of all hydraulic organs. They deliver to others gift, but in almost everything they meet with us. But that chamber must be situated in a place as dry as possible, so that it is long the water of the canal will be poured into it, so that the place of humidity does not function for its organs. Vndenon- and in no place should the air, driven by the water of the chambers, flow into the chambers. But Having thus first deliberated upon these things, let us now proceed to other things. Pragmatism I I I The Aeolian Chamber is another conftruRio i
There are some who construct a leaf chamber with this technique. From certain sides They construct a chamber of any shape, large enough for the size of the organ, cu- Just like this, figure can be seen. Iconism XVIII. At the bottom of this they erect another pipe FG is therefore a square or cylindrical figure, within this one, and that from E outside the tube FG of one foot spaced and brought down to H; And the fabric will be finished, water. for the perennial tube E slipped inside the tube FG and put itself out there, until it was exuberant; lavish The wind will be stirred up by the diffusion and the rush to the bottom of the vessel the mind has no exit from any other place than through B. through this tube into the Anemone He will empty the chests or chests of the winds. It is true that no one's art is his own for in the beginning he will have more than you, great and powerful, in the end more than you poor and weak air; For the water will continue to rise within the chamber, but not all of it to be filled, with which, having been filled, it is emptied by the epistomium of Idenus. Better therefore this pre I feel that there are much more convenient devices, which in the two proceeding pragmatism We taught that, unless this were so adapted, that the water collected within a vessel would rise by some force tooth, because MH would neither increase nor decrease. In fact, the air is always sunny He would supply the Anemothecus.
Having thus delivered the inodes, the air was caused by the rush of the rushing water within the Ane- we are forcing mtotheca, now also a method must be given, how to make the same artificial with the help of the energy of the fools we can continue to be forced into the canals. Pragmatism I V V entum ferfollesfer to breed the fetuses in order to hydraulic organs. With this ability you will bring the wind to any remote place. Let it be first
of the fountain of the river Kperennis, as shown in Fig. you will carry out your project, it will be planted next to the river
4q suitable tree CD. to which a transverse stick is inserted in the R veiled in the money pole Then let the wheel be equipped with its spokes, whose axis is long, he will be attacked in exactly the same way as it appears in the figure, having been thus carried by the support of M, vt it can be rotated in the folded pole: above this place, it is convenient to put two weights on it built inG&F they are firm, whose handles are bound two spears: which? you will pass The wood ABin points A B are brought in such a way that the free ones can be loaded inside the rings at E also at the end of the trassiersal tree another spear LK is let down to the curio's hand in K or nu while the intensity of the slide turns the wheel NO; the whole truth MK will not turn, to which when in K the spear comes out in you; on this descending towards the lower part the handle KE, to which it is attached, will draw the fecal material with a strong tranfucrfale AB. this is true descending one of the follies, of course, G will necessarily be released, but the other descending F the smoke of the fool G will promote with its weight M; rising, on the handle of K, a spear fojfem if he will lift off, -again the folly then weighs G, then presses the spear, necessarily descending so they will run through alternate turns. But from the pressure of the fools, the air chamber barrel violently intruding thence through the Canals, wherever he pleases, he will at last be carried away. Who indeed He willed to multiply the foals by means of many handles arranged in various ways in the esse-'foiu'0 which can be easily deduced, as it appears in figure V. of His Iconism, in which the four leaves ABCD F C in order one after another axEMEF, 4manubrijs KIHG instructumeleuans, ingen he will stir up the wind; For the living water sliding on the wheel F, points to the axle EF. Handlebars. I have been with the shaft of every one of the follies of the corresponding bar, for thirst, manubriprtinu. Now the follies lift up, now they depress, I would explore in many words. fiyg All these follies are varied and manifold, for by these the organs are enlivened, the concerts the bird is set up, the shouts are cooled; various motions are instituted, of which a little folly firn here, partly in other places it will be said that God gives. Pragmatism V.
Hiomoâo must be ordered as the first mobile ad in Hrumenta chordophone. to encourage faith. Vm instruments furnished with strings should have the most hostile mood, and places hu- since then they could not stand for a long time at considerable loss; Artists in a different way They found the said tools of stirring, certain steel fins with a singular energy they prepare the length of the instrument for the size of the instrument. These cy lindris and tympani, enclosed by tendinules, tend to conglomerate within the cylinder; x by whose violent state and continuous effort the cylinder must necessarily be turned, and so on it performs the same effect as the cylinders surrounded by water described above pti; and the artifice is here and there known; For all the makers of clocks and watches. they bring about the means of the said machines by means of the said steel fins. Huh? therefore the fins enclosed in cylinders, they have such a force, viz. , the power of enormous weights: they can be equaled let them be true when we deal with these and their universal static fabric, Let's talk about the clocks that are turned from the profession, I didn't want to be more confused here; Whoever is greater than this pinnaru to have notice of the wishes of the interim cosulat horologists. If, therefore, instead of dew NO figures in pragmatism describe, the cylinder of dictislamina leu fins is jijjb animated them you will be placed; he folles G. F. by means of the handle K, the gun and the wheel N Ó will be released; although not a regular motion. For the motion is so perpetual, but only perpetuated he will take up as much time as the duration of the sound of the organ requires; Habentauteqi these pinoje a double duty, for they also lift the folles, and the phonotactic cylinder for the symphony
they move around to be presented, as will be seen in the following figures. Lie. Phonoeamptic magic. Jr Pinnarum-. chalyearu Pro- JIM stchi Progymnasma I L
iSÎSrici ConHrue the f honotaftic cylinder T the organs themselves sound, it is necessary to press the palm of the harmonic abacus harmoniously but harmonics cannot be pressed with the hands of the snow, or with any other place of the hands press the palms, vt ess e. g. toothed cylinder, for from the rotation of this the teeth of the bra- the druf, drawing the strings of the palms, produce a harmonic sound; How then Eactic? let the cylinder be made, how it is divided, and how it is arranged with its teeth it must be said, for it consists in the preparation, division, and application of this; whatever rare, secret, and subtle automaton occurs in business, so without this ni let it be done rightly and with skill. We call it the phonotactic cylinder that in that division the harmonic songs are arranged with the greatest skill, viz. in the success it will be clear to you. itauij Al i sbornii': Paradigm!
Harmonically delineate the fhonotaBic cylinder. isl t2i. 3ci; The phonotactic cylinder can be considered in two ways, either in the form of a figu column ra oblong, or in the manner of a military tympanum; each one served our purpose can; The cylinder of the nasal filter is placed in the cantilever of the shorter ones, or touches, it makes for the circuit is shorter, as it appears in the cylinder A; Cylindrus Timpa noi des B. seruit it is clear You will be able to select either of them to make your account. Let it therefore be a cylinder having been prepared according to any of the above-mentioned measures, of such an amplitude as the measure of the canticle He likes the heat of the exhibitor of the rum and touches, so below Abacus the palms of his fingers ordered, that the length of the cylinder should correspond to the length of the abacus, be divided into as many equal parts divided into circles, as many palms as the abacus contains. so vtpalmulus each, fiue tatis, vt I will speak in a barbarian way, let each answer to the circular diuifions in the cylinder. Having placed the cylinder and adorned it in the manner mentioned, you will choose for yourself a beautiful song and sing it not exceeding the measures of time, which you will dissolve in your words, by distinguishing each touch by lines, and by adding numbers to a touch on the foot or forehead, vt It is clear from the following paradigm, in which it was first thought to present a simple song, and expressed by greater marks, that is, we would make an approach from the simpler to the more perfect; Can but let us lessen the voice a little, that you might have an example, to make notes I will put a diminution in the cylinder. HanC You will be able to transfer this song immediately into Cyli, ndrum; or seofsimlnL to outline the paper first, this makes it easier to select the whole composition better or to use it in yellow cylinders He puts the fupersicie exhibited about OGU-los; . Jbiaiinpizsminimimsi flUdf-w, And now you will proceed by agreement; Prxparabisprimo cijartamTubtilem so much rnagnitud- nis, vt paper of the whole cylinder c o n u e x a, m fu pe r sic i e tn preec is è aadeqiret; which will happen: if ap plication fupracylindrum-cxactè made its amplitude before perfectly tnenitifafisL In this place, you will be able to carry out geometric siipdrsiciebuS connexorum deducendis in planum qtiL fusiilìmè imArcemagnaluds 'vmbriE"foi. jj-de (we seized, to which the Readers sent us c iibuUO $bqiienq Let the following be the square ABCD, given the cylinder psidnotàiosSLLctilsiiècVM- measured; You will transfer the previous song with this skill. Divide AD side in equal parts as many hands as the organic abacus turq; from the points of division of the side ADjline parallel to the side BCidest the base qua- wires; and they will report he lineg sword, within which the teeth of the cylinder, each voice in the roast pta cantilena correlpondentcsponcndisunt. Then enter side AB again? match testfquales is divided, they are drawn from each point of division of the side A B lineg tra- the swords on the sides of the DC will all bear parallels, for each sword will bear one time, fmv
R r rnen Lib. Phonocamphtic magic; JiJ jurgì# Universal
the measure is attached, in the same way that the numbers of the side A B are recorded. iWofin- gula-hiKC ipacia tactuu m or measures, or times, if again what parts of the you see, there you wish to exhibit the flowers in a song, and you will be able to sing them in watery parts. diuides spaces, if marked by three tails of the most rapid movement, of which one measure con set up, if you would like to be presented, a peace in zL equal parts divided, and in infinnum i We to avoid confusion here vnura touched fpacium so much in quas I have sent the parts to which I will mentally divide each one again into two parts, then cross it out; said By the square-cylindrical ratio, the correspondence with the sword marks will thus be determined by the base to lead the beginning W elimination sme transfer of the song into the fhonotaBic cylinder. Vm in the base voice the first note ih G should be feminine, see in front of the square between the cla- uc$, again G or g then within the parallels comprising one touch, du case an entire line, so, however, vt not integralò sparisi g a pleat, touch, as the line the beginning of the fertile space) is established by the fertile touch, the end of the first touch must not be precisely fcd a little before, as you see. Again, when in the base of the song the fertile touches are known the two smallest ones being equal to an entire time, and striking the same key, namely G, poflident; within the same fpaciumgquadratiphonotactici, alinea touche fecundiendo vfque ad line you will determine the line, which? report the smallest in g, and then enter the line z fspace vfque to line i you will determine another line equal to the previous one, which refers to the alisis the smallest You have thus completed two touches. Purrò with the third) touch of the smallest notes in the songs of the base should be placed in that you are looking for in the front of the phonotactic square, enter yourself touching the spaces, you will determine the lines referring to the two minimas, as before. You are the fourth again the touch of the note in the base of the cantilena should be again the smallest esi psicto&fcmimirama in the posita, them you will completely arrange within the sparsi where touch gcorrespódcs, vt in fecudi touch you hit marks. When within the touch he obtains the note with Gelane, let him be the smallest, within the fifth touch of the sparsi square you will arrange the phonotactic corrcfpondens, you see. But the same touchfequésnotain. when the base song is the smallest, let the As key take place in front of the square and within which touch fpacium a third line vfque ad you will order the said minimaaou. Again, when the 6-touch mark is placed in E, within the column E of the square in fpacio you will determine the line of contact of the apri ma and the line of contact vfque to Se, in the same way When the note of the seventh touch is placed in D, you will determine it in the 7th touch fspace column: àD the first touch line vfque to i, and I would have completed the middle of the song. Por rò touch note with a minim pause before, in touch fpacio minima compe try to omit the line, since the smallest note of this space should be placed inside the middle you will arrange the smallest touch from line vf and from i. Moreover, with the ninth touch in D femininas contineat, in the said fspace column Dcasfuper each li you will determine the neas, which will refer to the feminines, for the femininity is occupied by the feminine fpacijtactus is not complete, vt you see i Again with io the touch contains a space of mini mam with a point, in D. The feminine self in b illas within the appropriate spaces of the cylinder tra- sferesivndecimi touch notsunidu? minima inCsduoderimivnafemibreuisin Djde- cimitertij, finally, the touch of the final jiota, of any time in G which all in appro if you transfer the spaces of the cylinder, you will have something like 8c, i. e. the shape of the cylinder is square the surface is extended, it clearly teaches
cylinder Uh. Phonocampic magic Jis Gytindriió Phonotatticué projected into the plane, one of the cult's teeth harmonic arrangement; n iuWNiMiiiniiWiìWUi"iia mwiiumb ii'imtirrjiTTirrrvsrirsr'nrmrrinifr. in; otpti EraiSBBBsyiEasgei$aB! KSBS38Ei! sa! man8BBeuMai8saEieeesBSBiHiMaBgsfcisij imiJMBaWMBMBSagWWWMEMtMIgjagHiMiaMMBSSBiaBSSžSgaaMIBBaiiaaJéâ
ma MM—BwnHiwBatBaaiiB. !8HseaaMafMiMH saio osssLWWZ i@as$aBBSi sgraffi bm WMroaBflBSSBieSBMisfflBgpSiž# pjaaMHBMW W! 88AWWWK! W8k
TLxetriplutn; On fccus we must proceed in other voices of High and Tenor y For it is in all a method of operation; True, when the highest voice is diminished by study, sir, and by clauses It should be established somewhat quickly, how ill within the phonotactic square to be transferred, it was thought to show a few here. lest there should be left anything that might be doubted by others. which he advises. IZjriI-Z--ZIIZZiZIZZZL Note, therefore, that the female lingulas are born entirely near one touch of space in the square phonotaóticoJKCitpare j I said almost, because it should not fill the whole space, viz. the beginning the second touch is given to the little one, but the first touch takes up almost half of the space indeed, the smallest part of the body is touched by one touch; JL of the said fpacij par tem3& so of the rest Rr fast Musurgìrt Vniuersaltiftue Anis Consoni sjDiJJbni expressed in very quick clauses, so you square them off. Cimi's first note of the semi- breuissit placed in the b. qmeres the last lock meeting in the front of the square; in. . In the first space of this column, you will determine by a ruler the semi-subseu, with which it is true di touch notce sint partim semiminimimim partim fuse, prosemimimmma inbin secundo tar ctus fpacio would determine the semiminimum cerelponding ruler, or the same the touch of that will bring the occupying part; but when the first of the spindles had been laid, for g, and there in the second fspace touch in a fertile line make a ruler part of the ipac4- Ctusvniusferè tequantem, following the spindle in a, you will report the lines in the column a fecund fpatij touch in the middle of the fertile space) arranged, and thus in order according to the marks Now you will proceed until all the marks correspond to each place in the square you will insert yourself; and a phonotactic square will come forth, in which each What has been said thus far is now presented. Why does that sing itself as it proceeds? I advise you to compare it to the pain; For from this single paradigm everything else has no business you will understand I am divided; to prepare said square phonotactic cylinder cir you will bring it together, or even glue it all together. For when this was done, the iron teeth impress the cylinder next to the marks in the square expressed by the lines. Familiar with semi-shorts? of bent to have a tooth filed and polished so much; of length, how much is the ruler representing I really wanted to put my teeth here for a better understanding of things mouse A means semishort, b minima, csemiminima, d fusa, semifusa, de but all of the same height were bent to project outside the cylinder with perfect height. For the harmony of the whole business consists in this; perfection I am therefore already in the cylinder the lengths and positions of the individual teeth should be expressed linearly, nothing else it is to be done, unless it is properly fixed in each of its places after having been previously prepared and prepared. and we shall have a cylinder complete with all numbers; So you see how I promote by the handle of the cylinder the whole cylinder is moved and changed at the same time, with iron pawls tongues always remaining motionless. But if any one plays the ingenious preludes, which they call Toccatas or Ricercatas, into a cylinder would like to translate phonotactic; let him make a larger cylinder, i. e. tem it appears to be a capacious pore; To whom I have here added one thing, à Gaspare Kerll, Se to the noble Archduke Leopold, our most munificent patron, Organando, Musi with an exceptional composition, in which the most absolute of this shines forth as if in a certain idea the manner of the style, most worthy therefore of the ingenious workman as well as of the artifice of automata to put it together, and in the Organs to display the industry by hand.
flî n PfjpiU: knots Lib. Phonosamptic magic. sir
MuJurgU Vrduerjalissme Artis Finini Dissoni k TOtai. n one and the same cylinder can transfer several songs, how much Because the column was wider, the number of cantilevers in it was greater could be placed, VG. if the swords were of breadth AB, they would have a cylinder of diuers cav
removed Let the tongues be equally spaced, and divided into eight separate parts also the tongue of the palms in the palpation of the extremity of the organ, the teeth of the cylinder henderes, vni fpacio AB will answer, that if any of the said parts can be applied i I'm sure you'll post songs on it. And eamob cause the cylinder axis outside. it must be ready, in as many crenašdiuifusin as there are parts of the space. My true mind
from this figure you will take it more easily.
nill. ymWlllinpffWBIHMITBIIIIlipi' Lia no p rs
C d e? you i K c d e S L Ii t I C e d L fs
Therefore let the spaces AB, BY YZ be the spaces of the cylinder eight parts of the letter c defghik sign- liu V. 111UI uuuruiUMp ivvv j w
therefore this and that; A space of parts with nails, that is, palms in the ta ftaturajquam here Lcrenam vltima in the support of TL, palmulas Xin all the spaces of the eight-part cylinder im- larumXno longer spaces G-fedhjacij d answers consequently give room it will be for a fruitful song Porros's handle T above the support TL at the point it will be a third of the cane enarlocus. : Mqc promoted by agreement; handle above; left no. O. pq. r. f palmuk x necesario locum mutabunty. nouaque femper nouayfque- at they will appear in the cylinder of Ipacia applied to the Cartilenes ma
B constitutions, just to be seen. Let it therefore be transferred to the cylinder, Ph- Luke Magic of Phonocamptica
ohonotaâìcnm the following song; you will work in the same way as in the previous ced-ent is done; From the reed, therefore, he will take the beginning. cpm cactus prinSg instead of having a breather, there is no division in the cylindropho n otactic to touch the i-part to the touch you will order the vomiting part after the spar) part, for this note will syncopate; al but you will determine the third mark established in c in column e, thus vtf part of the first leave the touch in the first space; the second, on the other hand, is the smallest; determine half touch space And so you will proceed in order in the rest of the notes of the syncopated notes appro loved ones You bring the second third voice to the cylinder with equal energy. Which; everything is so they are given exactly in the following phonotactic square, i. e. from only the notes with the said cy You may learn how to proceed by comparison with the teeth of the teeth. quiet before he comprehends what has been said more thoroughly, here too there is no difficulty at all he will drink Note, however, that here in the phototactic cylinder I am calling out the Heruper soft signs tura to answer; in the palm of his hand; black should compete in third place. b is a square close this sign you will find attached to SE; V. G. c, dS, they will tell the seeds the seats of the tonsures in black palms, marked with said nails; but simply put the keys if the nails of the white palms will tell the iifabaco. cg riphonium Sjmcopatum in CylindrumphonotaBicum to be transferred
The Pbonotaphtic cylinder was froiefted into a plane, with the teeth the harmony of the disposition, with which I had noted the voices of the predatory triphons
Although this triphonium was going forward. it was said in one and the same square transfponissit, to avoid thanks to the separate square cylinder We arranged a suitable surface drake. and it is About whose notice we hil seems to be required no more, except for the marks in the said square by the various tips, marks, the inspection of the exhibits suitable to the value, and the constant comparison of the one with the tree, so you see take the first note g the smallest, in g go through the peak of the smallest oquiualenté Vi you must also take the rest of the two voices with a minimum pause in sync to begin with And so on the rest. It is better to constantly examine each individual than a man They will become acquainted with these words.
Paradigm I I I How can the lowest known 'value' be brought to the cylinder?
Abetfaaec diuifio geometry so much vitality, as no artist's hands ciosludu can reach everyone even imaginable reduction of time he can present it without delay, so that no note escapes the hearing of even the four-tailed: Verùmvt Lector Musurgusj in what exercise, have, here some diminutions We will show the mouse and the strange way in which they can be transferred from the cylinder. Phonotactic square.
Terctifinosjcu Diminutions of notes, which I commonly call trills groups are called exafta containing diuifion. touch II. The touch I1L Touch. Teretifmosfiue do not present the following dimioutions of notes, which for want of want of the three-tailed and quadrifusaru characters, we have put all the two-tailed fiue and hemi-fusal ones; However, in order that the reader should not fall into error, we have assumed the value of the notator in each of the clauses. Ss r Exm- j2q Mu fargia V niuersalissiue A rtU Consoni (t) Disiom An example of diminutive marks, insemissus quadrijùsù: i Scmifufae a Tricaudadx notte fiue Quadrifida: T hofcè you transfer the thirds into the cylinder, one touch space ia zr paftcs di- do you see, for so many notes? you will be working, you can see that it has been done in the following example, in which you only need two touches you will find a solution. If ver è, vni temporori notes would respond, i. e. given in bica or if it were half-fused, then the one-touch space would be divided into parts. If it is true the marks of the pores correspond to what is done in the tricaudates, then each of the touches of the sword in pairs they were to be divided, and then to proceed according to tradition, and so on ad infinitum. Consequence
It follows from these that no such rapid motion of the marks can be conceived, that It cannot be presented with the help of a pragmatist; and henceforth, by which the hands are nulsifin artifice, our automatic artifice will not be able to reach, nor any in the world Orgonaedus is found, who is capable of something like this in his hands. Paradigm I V How ripla, sesquialtera, proportions of time iti-i the phonotactic cylinder can be introduced. The movements of the perfect tense occur in the harmonics, and not in theirs let there be none, so difficult as to scarcely be, even among the most eminent musicians, who do not give them they can sing, but they can't even play instruments. we will show you here that the cylinder should be divided, the movement of the rods should be exhibited in the most perfect manner, immediately in no way is it hidden in the universal treasure of Music that our phonotactic di- vision is not manifest. Therefore, instead of the paradigm, the following canticle in the cylinder-, to be transferred Note, however, to the Reader, that we here accept a triple in a broad way for each in proportion to the perfect tense, in which the three smallest and smallest of the imperfect tense However, we do not want to use more elaborate terms in this place, so as not to call the artist let us entangle ourselves with those who do not understand; but they are commonly called triples, all of that catilena these numbers or f. or they have fixed points, whose genuine reason, and truth you may draw notice from the book to which we refer the studious reader, where whatever about this business he may miss, he will find a treatise. The following song is yes plici) Tedeschi Veronensis, printed in Venice in in which the Author, although they he has committed so many errors against the precepts of music; because, nevertheless, for our purpose he was doing we have decided to put it here, corrected as much as possible. For Lib. Phonoeamphtic magic. jjj Iftjlrumenti Automatis oMuJàrgid! Fmuersaiis firn Artit Confini Dijjoni He was going to pass this Melothefia into a cylinder, before touching each space in three or six or iz equal parts; Iproscmimiminims finally profuse trips, vt is evident in the following example. But from time to time they come across a tripe so talented that Fyncopat is an expert singer in the town he becomes one who can either sing or sound them, so that he can play the triples with the same facility on the cylinder bridegrooms, with which they are proceeding, and so it will be, that nothing is so intricate or perplexing in music,
let it be that the automaton is not presented with this phonotactic cylinder. I decided not to thus, long ago, the grace of this kind of specimen was exasperated by a mere fyncopation for the Roman musicians, even the most skilled, did not, unless they put great exercises at last, scarcely they were able to sing. The French, however, are more accustomed to this kind of singing, and not without exactness to confound it with the confusion of others; which we present in the 7th book. So if you want to transfer the progress of the song in perfect time to the roller do so: with the two first words known as breuis and femibreuis in a matter of one touch let them vouch for quires in the cylinder first the nail a in front of the square, then for short, you will apply a ruler within the column a in the first tripartite space two thirds of the space) pri I am almost occupying; then in the same place you will apply another line for the semi-short, a third nearly filling the division; Atin fertile fspace, you will apply the lines known for the second time responding to the touch, viz. determining f fpacij; then i almost part of the second space) for a point; then for me nima, planted in f, in the fertile touch of fspace, in the middle of the second line of the said space) and to the third line; finally, for the fembreui sewn, in the column of nails s in fe whence the touch of Ipatio touches the third and almost the fourth line, the beginning of the third) the touch of the lineola Book The Magic of Phonoeampttcai Mf to transfer laughter into the cylinder get ready IWMSWLkWWSSWKWLâNWIK GHSHKfiiBrasairaraHa MufitrgU Vniuersalisfirn Confini tz) Dissoni bottom keys to transfer to the cylinder. fîromatic enharmonicumq; the genre is so difficult and arduous that many musicians do not I will say that it sings or sounds, but it is not even a name, let them perceive} pu- and they try to be a musical and sung by Ajvaw, I also admit the difficulty of the matter for the hard ones have the most subtle intervals of hgc genera, it seems hardly possible to separate them, as the word hu the manatee should exhibit precise and distinct intervals. Some things in the media I will be lucky enough to have a better success, because there are hardly any artists who know the finer things the intervals of jusmodi exactly touching the matter still suffer the greatest difficulty But in no with the phonotactic cylinder, the matter is completely easy, so that no other reason is perfect, exa- I think that the different types of games can be presented as in automata of this kind. in which all things can be arranged with such exact division at however minute intervals, viz let them have an infallible effect. -You should see a sample of this matter, mo- We will teach you to transfer the nodiumhicchiomatico-enharmonicum cylinder, ie nothing I came to all kinds of music in a way that our phonotactic art does not it can be imagined. A Diatonic Chromatic-Enharmonic Ornate in a Cylinder fhomtactically to be presented. Magic, Phonoeamptica ji? Who, I pray thee, perishes as well as the inflection of the voice, which is placed here intervallapcrfectè pronounced certainly all musicians seem to despair at the first sight of them; Ins with our ta Tien phonotactic cylinder, everything I have proposed with ease and the rest up to now these are most accurately ordered and dressed, where, however, we should note the Abacus cloister or as they commonly speak of the drawing board, to be organized in a much different way in this class. Namcutn in ordinary fingering, for the most part, not Chromatic-Enharmonic, but diatonic gads should be found, hence the common octave has nothing but izpalmulas, which We have shown quite a bit in the chapter on organic music. The keyboard is Chro- The matic-enharmonic palm has completely z r; of which we among others, in the cited place We put When, therefore, the touch is at least octaves; but one eighth zr gra it consists of two or three feet; the total measurement will be quadrupled palms, or I therefore agree to this agreement, according to the value of the notes, within the sword marks chromatic-enharmonic competence, you will determine the positions of the teeth; you will have Music hitherto unheard, chromatic-enharmonic, quesita. We are in prce
by the example of the tooth, only one voice, avoiding confusion and grace, so that I do not doubt you in anything two would remain, we exhibited. Corollary. It is clear from these that if one finds a whole tone in or intervals or steps ret, and according to the said steps he would touch himself with each pipe of the organ between them he would organize the correction of the dissenters; and finally the song according to the said degrees co- positamin would transfer the cylinder, the future, as an organ of hocomatu each gra he would report exactly two differences; a wondrous device, to which there is no voice or it would seem that human energy could reach it. Paradigm V I To arrange a hundred voices in the cylinder, Ertuvn is our phonotactic cylinder to present those modulations, to which no dexterity and aptitude of hands are sufficient to render them; If someone is artificial, He would be a teacher who could present it sincerely only by the service of his hands. In the cylinder you go to the cylinder however, with the phonotactic geometric division prepared, not only the said fuga exacté or- drl pkono- with which it was composed will be returned with ingenuity and candor. Yes, if someone were to build an organ every touch of octaves is in the said organ not only o. 5o. sed&cen then the flight of words, to present a poster of an infinite variety. An example of several voices we do not give, since from the above the method of transferring them to the cylinder is easy to handle carry on Here while we write by order of the Pontiff INN OCE N TI I X. for the organ hy a hydraulic cylinder with a diameter of spans, in which voices were artificially composed We have ordered the interweaving of fugitives and fyncopations times, and hence the sym presents a sound worthy of hearing. It is very clear from what has been said, that none of them was so hidden and that it is possible to think of an artifice in Music, which our art pho- no- SSO Think of Yniuesfalli as Ariti Conson Disson let us not present the notes, rnodd's prassiertim in hnpediera cantatu eeAWrer, breaks up chromatic and harmonic compositions, very difficult; also a disgraceful time. he exhibits the proportions in the 7th book, mouse
the lindrus can be driven into a circle in two ways, either by water or by the aid of a pinnare; I n V oa'nis hydraulic water does not move the cylinder so much, but the Wind Wecessitriu
tuquein narmoniammimanrur; aim: rcimamtervtrumqueinitrmT)entumìiiaeit, quoa the instruments were continually stirred up by the waters; the fins, however, at a certain time mdtumpromittimf And moturri tributre m a chiniî-facile quidcm est farbroptst "Nehaimony would destroy the value of integrity. And so the wheel of the waters around another line in the sky the axis must have a toothed vertebra, which they commonly call Rochetto. Ha? cvei the vertebra will grasp with its teeth another toothed wheel placed around the cylinder so and so finally proportioned harmony? movement is induced: therefore harmony con the crane and the proportion of the born movement should be presented, the vertebra of the vti and the wheel which the tooth grasps this must consist of a certain number of teeth. For the hgc vertebra will be the same in the swift either by the slow rotation of the cylinder, which is quick to the touch, or by the slow movement of the hand; For as much as the vertebra has more teeth, the wheel will turn as quickly as the pair faster, so slow. It is more certain from the following than from many words they are intelligent; To consult also about this business Horologiarij, whose proper it is given to the wheels to determine the time. Of whom and we were fusistìme in the great art of the granary leuius, we shall deal chiefly with the chapter on static mechanics, giving God. Machine I Hydraulic organs, it: .svestorrvt-? minutes
Aria of various hydraulic organs is serirentbey adeò à Vitruuius obscure described, it is scarcely possible to decide what is to be decided about them; nor is it surprising; For if we too were to propose to describe the organs by which we are afflicted, the matter would be by no means Thus we shall be able to describe it precisely, as if every difficulty were immediately removed, especially for those who they have no knowledge of such organs. So much more antiquity vocabulary
and the newness of things will torment us, if we understand the Vitruvian machine described We will try to manufacture. Nevertheless, do not leave anything untouched in this work mouse, how much exactly Vitruvian? examine the description and gather various conjectures We will try to show what kind of machine it was. They were in some respects similar to our organs, in others they differed, viz. in context it will be seen from the description For there was no doubt that the sound of these organs was sound, ed rent, but this he could not give, except by the impulse of air and spirit; I am driven by air and spit The rite could not be performed unless it was forced to one place, but it could not be forced except by means of organs ready and fit for it; Therefore, the organs suitable and suitable for this were prepared, which? I took a sharp bite they would growl, they would strangle the noise within the canals, and so the tight air would eat up the sound, what? everything they are common to some of our organs. But before we describe the details of the works? price I thought he would do it, if I first applied the text of Vitruius to him; ctor, providing details with the text, what in the most intricate business elucidation mouse, to see the plague. Vitruius lib. Chapter X, XIII. Of hydraulicisaufim which they have reasonings, how breuiffme proximately that they touch and the writing will be able to follow, not pretermiUam: from the matter of the compaia base, the ark in it from the are fa is placed in brick. Above the bafin are erected the right and left scalar scales, to which are included the areas of modolisunduli walking from the lathe subtly under those who have fixed in medium-sized anons cough Likewise, I made holes in the flat surface, about the size of the fingers, with which holes I made a pinch I placed the dolphins in the whorls of the arena, having cymbals hanging by chains from the arena below A mina of straw was placed inside the ark, where the water of the place would support it. Inefl in that kind of v(rjnfun an inverted dowel, which balances the space under the taxil, about a pint of fingers high imumy bottom between the lips of the thighs, and the chest. And above the ceruiculain cius coagnftWXmtr- culasuflinet head machine, which gr and è it is called pnonùt, in the length of which the canals, fi If you are tetrachords, they become If hexachords, eight. But with each channel fingalas epiflomiasunt enclosed iron manacles, with which the manacles are twisted, ex open the noses of the ark into the canals. From the canals the canon is arranged in a transverse fo corresponding branches in the nostrils, which are in the highest table, which is called ma% grace; between the table and the bed are interposed with a rule, drilled in the same way and oiled under the atta. vt they are easily driven, whose passage and return sometimes obstructs and sometimes opens drillings. This matter Their throats have fixed iron steps and are joined with fins, the touch of which makes them move makes the rules. They are held above the board holes, through which they have egressjumspi channels rite As a rule, they are agglutinated annuals, in which the tongues of all the organs are included. And from the small pieces of pipe, connected continuously to the wooden ceruids, reach the nostrils. they are in the bows, in which the axes are brought from under the lathe and placed there, who when he receives the bows they will not suffer the soul to go out again, plugging the holes. So when we raise the vets there, bring the vendors down to the bottom; dolphins, who are enclosed in whorls cymbals in their mouths, they fill the swords of the dulcimer, and the antlers raise the bottoms within the mo di olo s violent pulse with speed closed by the pressures they force the forger, through which he runs into the wooden, through his sky- ces into the ark with a veritable motion vecdumvehemet) fiore ffpmtusfrequent meeting of the epistomies the opening flows in, the soul fills the channels. And so with the fin touched by the hands they propel, they constantly lead the rules, alternately closing the doors, alternately opening them with a wave of many arts The voices of the former are excited by multiple modulations. As far as I could rely, viz
I contended that the obscure writing should be pronounced clearly. But this is not an easy reason, either expedient for all to understand especially those who in they have an exercise of these kinds; That those who have little interest in writing, when they know the matter itself, pursue everything is neatly arranged. Hitherto Vitruus us. The machine has main parts which according to the mind of Vitruius must; The first part is the creation of the Ark, when it was poured into the earth, which it calls o fs. The second is the construction of the Modiolos, with canals, bars, and dolphins; you are here for this is the principal part which animates the engine by the supply of wind. The third is Ar a culvert with rules, fins, tails, noses, and pinnace, which; they are the way; journeys with the wind rums with lids for the same, either to be opened or to be stopped; Arcula is the same as ipc. d ernis organopadS fccretum; rule They are the same as those commonly called battiuezti the same as the pins, the same as the pins, or the iron wires, by which the pins are pressed to which they are attached, and to which they are equally conjoined; fora min aper quveeto included within the pighu m) access is given to the organic systems. The fourth part is the pipe org. like the reeds, which, if there were were called tetrachord organs don, if hexachordon, if octochordon, if dodecachordon, and next to diapa arranged the intervals. And with these parts the whole hydraulic organ of Vitruius. let us study its very structure a little more closely.
Tt L Basis etc. Phonocampic magic.
iicr. ti i. e. llctii! The base, therefore, was placed in the first place, the wooden support of the whole garment; above this a box of candles ABCD, which Aram Hero says, was placed at the top of the aquX; From this they were raised through bes within which the timbers were placed, which Vitruius says of the stairs us through a beam we only hint at the whole business; not a figure; the scalar beam was entangled; through these the oblong virgees VY, XY were drawn like the pistils, with the lower end of the modioli Yy boxes in the manner of Cthesibicce The machine, which we call Anthlea, was commonly supposed to be Tromba; These are small things they were drinking sackcloth, Z, Z pistils, which Vitruius calls peddlers, wool and leather circfw given the circles of bottoms, or plats to attract or repel water; but they were put to death Ria YY is outside the inert candle ABCD; They had several handles in the highest place They were made in the form of dolphins. something else Book X Ophtiagia Phonocamfttca.
But from the small pieces YY through the channels TJin the receptacle which the funnel was poured Vitruius calls out, the air was forced down, so that these two little ones were one with the little ones truffles VY platismatijs f? they would refer to nothing else but the engine of which we call the felope Aeolus, whose machine we have delivered in z. lib. Artis And they replied to the two fools who had supplied the wind with a pint in the Ark A B C D was like an inverted funnel EFGH at the bottom inches diS- then supported by some wooden stakes or supports, as water internally in the funnel, which lacked the bottom, could enter. The box yarn ABCD is not all a-rn with which it was filled with something, like the air between the water of the upper part of the funnel mecfîSrèt, vt in figure àpàret i Hinc ènirrf sièbàt, 'vtfiSnWrWIiB'pàttoritìB" supplies abundant air, so that the air here is under pressure to the air, through Anthleamal- Which was supplied three times, through the internal canals into the anemotheca -X-iiHru(us ibid. gumhy. He was convulsed by the sounds. But Pigbusintus had spatulas some fiue vimafbper Vitruius called the manacles, the chariots, and they answered with tongues. of the organs, which was open: by means of iron wires the wind gave access to the pipes, and these We fixed the spatulas in the shape of the letters attached, in exactly the manner in which the modern Organopcei, lingulas, which Battinentos yoeât-y-UL.
to these above corresponded Choragia S, fiue Tasti, who with fiery threads were joined together, with spatulas I. for it was done as a stage iron wires will press the spatulas running inwards with Anomothecamrquis this: by the agreement of the pressed wind in Ane xr b. v go there and, passing the correspondent, caused the desired sound to be thrown into this whole business we expressed the figure by means of such a V, spatula y, subject to the same hole X From whom It is clear that, apart from the supply of the wind, everything was almost to our organs. $nunia; for Honso inciting Anthlea, alternately platisma the air hidden in the motes tijser canals T f entered into the funnel, in which the air was pressed, into the wine cellar fi when the ark of the winds was going away, it was soon gathered up by the pressure of the fins, the suctasters the air passing through the steps into the open pipes produced a sound for the pinnare desired At this point it seemed necessary to explain that neither VitruiiffS, nor HujM. .. AmmonMnc nrM-oni- il Â S ILI MI
Commenting on him, he noted.
Why, indeed, are organs of this kind called hy draulica, when, however, ht Let it be mentioned; and to what end Vitruius stored water in the Ark. Mfp here
that the water should therefore be politicized shortly, because it was forced to flow through the constriction in the pigliat by the agitation of the air, a kind of lingular tremor cbncijiaretr with the sound with the sound of the tremulous sound of the organ called hvdraulic, it appeared ehimînÈuiutmoA I don't know what the strange sound is, and what I hear is strange and interesting We say that this water was placed in the ark, and that Vitruius did not excommunicate it; Apqr'j this is sufficient for the hydraulic organ of Vitruii. i'!
From which description it is very clear, compared to organs, they are altogether and the work is very scanty, thin and rudimentary. Here for I do not see that the arrangement of 4, s, or pipes could raise the harmony, Vt or, most of all, it is surprising that Nero should be so heavily affected by such a cheap and meager hydraulic system vt, according to Vitruius, among the perils of life and the empire, among the soldiers and the sedition of the leaders, m to the imminent damnation, he did not leave his care and Which fi he had had the abundance of modern organs, not flutes, but from time to time vti in major Germania organ animated by two flutes of diuersor Registoror, which At the end of this kind he had heard the puppets at the service of his hands, with what pleasure he had shall we say that it was a feast? Of course, many of these illuminative things But the findings of the Ancients cannot be compared by any means, as has been shown elsewhere j SedG With these promises let us now proceed to Mechanics itself.
pnl ff. Ma- frlusurgus V ntticrjAlu fine À rus Conferii fj Di som Machine to fabricate an automatic hydraulic organ,
D Three hydraulic organs are required, Water, air, and a phanotactic wheel Water is first of all powerless, air is the soul of the organ, the wheel is a phonotactic instrument etuTvpvviac, And so you proceed: organiuxtaregulas handed down in organic music, in- built in some convenient place; first of all, you will build a boring camera for paulòan- now it's pa width with a diaphragm m the form of a crib, with two channels in- structura5 of which the greater TS supplies the living, who nevertheless has an epistomium in T VAI- f jx. to water when it pleases sistentfona: . And the said canaJis. jintra will be derived below-' the bread of the vessel; But he has another canal'emfupra V, Zj which brings the air into the chamber raised school; toan. sfer. at within the anemothcca or chest. of the organ of the winds. Water nim. per ca natem T; $ssmma violet yxia rushing into the iflteor vessel R partecumaerem there dem miste n te m, tutiirfttium de-SSMMcrstumAMk-his. qyi arppjiojem locum qu- renscùm not inuttitiSt pflrcribrata djafygmata veTuticarminatus. humiditate ni mia eputus peftVZfjinianemothep. m auoJabitjAqLpt. prrgterea with a violent attack through
R Qristcm. elabenSroti. lMR mulipiw will turn adorned with a circle of traps, .h$c by an tying the vertebra to its axis L vna circumuolutani jjgyrajMtcylindqm siue the wheel psto- notactic HK h$c with his teeth harmoniously in the wheel according to the progress of the paradigms. h? the depressed will open the paltismatia he will undergo the platysmatic fistulas; while he is playing, the desired harmony will be perceived. The interior organi jtertiufaqtifc sin g uhur unvstruàram non dócemusycum eamdara in Musica Or- ganictrdìideritoisî efihotq msblùi oiîitnstncO; e-io. mnmb u read: imrao When the mobiles are sent away at will, and put in their place elsewhere, so compo siuemelothesia can be adapted to any situation at any time. Whence in heaven VG. with the cylinder in rHtactus, and in each case again in for the marks which they call fusas cxhibition in the individual points of the division of the soraminasacies, vt already prepared in large, &ku' a set of teeth for the value of the other and the other in a certain organ connected to the box containing the bile for discretion fymplianeta? they can be impressive. However, it can be done properly in older people and large cylinders. at least the next one will not be a good lot. A fruitful note. This artifice of the automaton is not limited to organs, but to any fi can be used as tools
Engine I I I Barbiton to dress the automaton in another form. Some among them, such as Robertus de Fluctibus, were on the basis of this kind of Automaton They accomplish J, for which, however, they require three. Whose second string inShiam sounds tense, the other is inserted between the strings and strikes them, the third controls the very striking of the strings by means of certain balances. first A triangular shape is constructed from three spruce branches (vtiin Machin. lL figu. Construction Issjdocei). BB is a square pierced, on the two sides of which sharks externom Afe There are about threads hanging from their cleats; I intended and remitted many laws 'sicapossint'; The middle of the base in BB should be gently split, ie through the holes, the BB constant parts thre m of the boy's sonorous machine can be spun, the Prteterea will be spun out of a more solid wood so CDEF, with parallel rails, is nothing else" than a phonota wheel ctàca extended in a plane, heee must be inserted inside the sides of the barbit with the holes BB so as to The nitre fissfum is moved downwards. In this your melothesia according to the pragmatism of Paulò an- handing them over to their teeth, you will distribute them in such a way that they may of this phonotactic square should have so many parallel bars to each other that the tasta- tura'palmula; but the length should be divided into melothesia competent to touch. In the center but let the holes of each division be made, into which a few fins are inserted, completely similar idS-iqufacilead the percussion the strings bend, and return to the right tu din em struck itiixarda pofBttt-vvti iaclauccymbals are usually rnechordas- once lost it lasts they will eat with a sound, as they are equal;
fix Musurgie Fmuersalis pue Arti&Consoni q) DiJJoni let them be made, that they may prevent the string from being struck with the sound of the string the rum which is then beaten, breaks up. The third part necessary to produce the harmony of this barbit consists in the given wheels iron it in the manner in which horology was accustomed to be made, vt above prxcedent He teaches machinery. It is true that you should not be confused by the multitude of words, the whole scheme We decided to place the mass before the eyes of the superiusin6g. n &IIlMachin. II Note, however, that this machine requires the greatest sloppiness in motion, to the end which ni you will finish it; prxtcrea has that inconvenience, vt as often as it has devoluted, he repeated it must not be without effort to withdraw it.
Machine I I I Automaton belfry to be manufactured. see Icons I will go
They are married in the majority of all parts of Germany to this kind of machinations, great. exterorujp-admiration; The construction of the same is exactly the same as the procedure;
For they are animated either by water, or by plates, or by weights; If before, Camera Lolia ro According to the traditions, it is necessary to establish ifiposteri that also in various ways It can be dyed, either by means of the rotary engine of the preceding machinery, or by means of fins steel plates violently twisted within the cylinder or by weights, vt us here in fig. X we present; in which the weights surround the cylinders GG. these being circumcised by P turn
Idb. Magi from Phonotattica jjp vertebra vulgo rocchetto cylmdrù phonotacticu A; here he is surrounded by his teeth with their harmoniously arranged deces press the palm of BC, qu? press through the axes of the hammers they chime with bells corresponding to their teeth, and thus the harmony will be perfected, as, indeed, a watery procession it gives the cylindrus is coordinated with the chronometer X. and fig. which is usually done in clocks, vtmost before the two cylinders pomsolet, to which the greater rot? A to be turned, showing the other hours in the index E n, fer uit A bell? leu bells har- They should pour money, which we have shown in Organic Music in the treatise on the Campanis, and the figure of the pnecedes he teaches beautifully. n which is the diameter of AB. greater a bell; refers to the diameter in Csol, Ja, as, CB. the diameter of the bell; fruitful matters in D la, sol, rr, DE presents the diameter of the third campante in E la, mi, re; EB fourth; in a camp diameter exhibctin Vsa, vr, FB quinttecampante diameter! in Gsol, re, vt, GB sextce bell diameter in A la, mi, re. HB seven? bell gives the diameter in Bsa, b mh IB, finally, the diameter of the octave is given by C solfa, vt. as a beautiful figure teaches; But how the diameters are to be found, we have already taught in Chapter IL where We dismiss the reader. The position and position of the bell can also be different, for me He was pleased with the turrets; in the manner of the present Iconism XIX. it is to be seen, in which Cylindrus phonotacticus A. intrinfecùslaminae chalybeae contortione violenta con surrounded by a cluster, with his teeth, the spatulas placed in order BC, h te by threads of iron, to which they were attached; whence, returning to their natural state, they strike the bells in harmony; Finally, as we have said, the effects of harmony. But each must have a hammer and fins that the bus to be restrained, which in II. Mr. we expressed it through the Iteras that they should not fall into the bells let them remain in the same position, but be a little blinded to the confusion of sounds and fioncm to escape But I am sorry. Iconism better from let's pray Let the phonotactic wheel be equipped with harmoniously arranged teeth; But the abacus Clauiariumsit BC whose palm: be the length of the foot and iron wire DEtan- where does the axis insert? And let them have tongues; palms: within the line DE the rings are connected to the iron pins, while the iron wires are connected to the hammers of bells, viz. in the iron silo HK mallet KL bell M is to be seen. It will be so that as soon as the automaton revolved round the cylinder A, I arranged it harmoniously among the teeth tis in BC he pressed the ends of the palms, each one of them by elevating them, the palm; It is a wire let them be pressed down with an iron DE, as if they were inserted into a hypomochlium, from which pressure bring the wire the accused HK will lower the hammer KL, who pressed down on it the cloth M shining with im the head finally achieves the desired sound, just as you will hear from others. Since really capan? They are always bigger and bigger, the iron wires do not straighten the hammers He thought that he should be led, lest the sila should be twisted by various slants; they were ordered by the Magistrates cer those oblong iron shafts, which commonly called cadets, we call axes, do they have each one? somewhere two like bracelets, with which two strings are attached, one that locks the hammer, high the iron dybrachium connected to the palm of the hand moves as it falls; in fig. are signed letters NO, each of which has two arms, whence dybra- we call it chia, as if you were saying bibrachi; signed letters TV, XY, Zfi, attached to the book sut sila
irons, the first of which are TXZannexed to the spans a, b, x, the remaining three are connected to with hammers P, A, let it be therefore, vt soon as the palms are pressed a, h, x three arms TXZ spring tant axes, T indeed the axis NO jXaxemPQjZ and finally the axis SS, from whose attraction and by pressure, the other arms of VY will also be lowered, bent by this pressure, he says the hammers, e, from the iron sieves to which they were attached, into the bells, and thus intended for these the witches will be finished at last. By this practice you will be able to assign a place to the bells. The true figure of Melivsin will teach you everything. The way Ma- The origin of the star Cymbals Ful'défîs EC- f. lesi3: . Figure, J LI
MusurgU Vniuersaliisue Artu Consom q) DiJJoni Machine V. De Rotis sensilibus Cjmbalarijs. See the icons.
And the device is nowhere to be seen except in the greater Church of Fulda, the Monasierij. It happened, and I judged it worthy, which is described in a little more detail. St. Boniface after the building of the Church in the said place was completed, with which the whole conversion of souls took place had given, it happened, that among other Ulustrilfimas women, he would also convert to England, In what place would he worship the golden star of the Godhead, he would turn to Christ and perceive him reduction pig monument golden star with innumerable bells resounding m The church founded by St. Bonifacio, he wanted to be placed; I have been here for several hundred years The ornament of the mother of Ecdesis had lasted, but at last it happened that the tower was falling in the wars two Abbots money; Indigent gold star deposited in military expenses dere was forced, that so famous a monument should not perish, sneatn the star in the same form And in greatness, he ordered the former to be replaced by water; I am now in the said Church but to the surprise of all, no less ìcundè is looked upon, as the first sweet star The echo of the pitch is perceived by the ears. Each end of the axis of which was tied with silk cords The art of the larder, bent down from the highest vault of the temple, leans down like a star in the air be distant as you see in fig. IV the said ropes are carried around the peritrochium above the roof of the axis, inside the wheel of which a man walking, turns a star of bright rays, each of which is from the center to the apex l a. feet in length, which are furnished with innumerable bells, surrounded by a wheel, however great and intense, yet sweet and pleasing to the ears! sple whether the majesty of the noise tibusdt is in harmony with the common joys of the City) renders He does not omit the truth in this place I thought that the most minute description of the said stars, which the Most Illustrious Ke- Uerendissiraus Fuldensis Abbot Joachimus, S. R. I. Prince and Empress Archican cellarer, most exact by the most erudite D. Christophoruro Em erum Secre not only with the hand of a man, but with his d? i n genius propulsion, u m, de eli n e a so transmit you care about him who is like this. See Icqnis. you 3fi. ;, I said! ùT'jO or 2v n hub Description of the cymbal machine hanging in the Basilica r uldmfis Aionafttrtj than commonly 1uream wheel itilis aspellant the most dignified of the hearing; Aec Bella penfilis from which the metal fabric is made, is still undiscovered eB y&idc- tur autempartian effe fusa, partirti citsa'muiùsferma the figure is thus of it in terior and anterior party quafirìptura legipoteft, quaue chorum orientalemJpeflatân prima figure dehneataconspkitur The habitation of this art can be seen from, but the diameter of the whole machine is contained in the upper part of the cusp the push of one beam, and the abutment of the top of the other opposite, excluding, however, the bells there dep? dctibus twenty-four feet, which our German craftsmen call, ein Werckschuh, quo- ruunus conBat twelve inches, and the length of one half-foot in the third figure poB delineate tion of the axis designated cB. A special division of the main parts of this wheel of circles adorned with an aqua exterior ornament and proportion. In any of these rays at least no-
which they have decimated and in part are still cap rings and bells, and although some have fallen off yet most of them still depend upon the treading of a certain machine like a pulley for length even Em halker
Book X Magic Phonotattìca.
the shaft of the shaft was made long with some steps and placed above the dome of the temple a revolving star, with the lower rays ascending to the south, and the upper ones towards the seventh, As the trio descends, the organ sings and sings the sweet music. In the space of the end of the first and second interior, a quarter of the leilu is somewhat we may see the altar carved by the ancient carafers in that order of disposition, viz. the first figure shows that I am reading a fic: IN THE YEAR OF THE LORD MILESIMO FORTY-THOUSAND etc. Brouwerus S. I. according to the ancient Chronicles. Fuldenfium chapter where this wheel And he mentions the same origin, having placed in the last place: XIV. left with no meanness. In less space of the two circles, the smallest of which is adjacent to the axis, are some animals with difficulty I knew them as Pegasus, cerui, dragons, horsemen, and the like. Moreover, they figure in this first or the nets, with which Jifimul should have been delineated, would have hindered the freer asp of the slum part of the interior and of the same ornaments, but the drawing of the outer part or of these bacilli a barren figure may be seen. In this figure some flue-like bacilli are shown to be seen in the first figure, Figure ir. as mentioned, omitting the longer of these retinaculos from the inner cusp of each radius. are extended to the extremity of the sere axis b. within the circles of the ropes, as far as the adpole the axis or glass would extend those circles, the wheel would prevent the circular course in the circumaBlone, vt will appear in the third figure, but the bacilli are shorter from the angle of the two converging rays in the last and greatest circle c. towards the inner part of the wheel, which is marked in the third figure Yes, they are extended. In this figure III. delineated is seen the length of the axis Jiptepedum vtroq, the pole z. drawn, k-gura IU. For the longer bacilli or retinal bacilli, they extend above the inner cusp of the radius but almost to the extremity of the axis within the circles of the ropes c. but shorter bacilli from the angle of two concurring rays, whose mark eH d. se extend towards the inner part axis annuiam litt. e. fignatum, and itase has aspe&us with other rays and bacilli with an ax from the side; And it would be very difficult to move this entire wheel sideways and sideways delineate are, here and there intersecting each other variously with lines of rays and bacillus of the rest of the or most of the species were fleeing. But it is to be noted, what from each side Rotten, both in the east and in the west, are grafted with such bacilli, each of the longer ones having two but the shorter one has at least one knot, as it clearly appears from the drawings. Consequence From these it is clear that this Cymbssarian wheel would become more worthy of admiration if the writer would be adorned with a harmoniously spindled and divergent form of a rattlesnake, so as another spoke of the wheel of a boat according to the order of the bells arranged, a! justtotaIis, another cymbal, similar He was instructed in his class. It could also be done, that a wheel of this kind could be made perpetually mobile it would be rendered, if that is to be understood, outside the dome of the temple built by the wind driven rum, it revolved around the inner axis. That he eats everything We leave it to the architects to carry it out.
i' lOftt t to construct an automaton of all kinds of instruments piizrrj
i G t i At this point I will teach you how to make a perhaps unheard-of clauicyrrbalu, which sounds to present his choclian symphony most perfectly and with the utmost admiration, and so you shall proceed. Vu
Let it happen M usur gì# Vniuersalii stue A rtis Consoni DiJoni Let the instrument be about feet long ABC D, the second cut above
An arched figure is usually made for the larger chelybus, which they call violones barbarè. Then let a certain wheel be made cubits in diameter, the width of which is not or di the thickness of this wheel is fitted to the axis of the inner circle of the heart of the instrument with that genius you build, only the circumference of the roto part outside the arcuate in the outer surface of the instrument emerges; cie m eminently we gnauimus letterisNG; to this rot end of the instrument rim AC, &BD they should be parallel, and high as well, and arched in some way. Whereupon the stringed instrument from the intestines of animals (for the strings have no place here) those of the strings quan with the thickness and thickness, which is usually done in harps, should be arranged let the palm be at the end of the great fret Csol, F, Vr, but the rest of the chords are smaller smaller ones, with a proportional decrease, correct themselves in the order of the consequences The pledges of Harpis are made, they are deceived; up to chords (as many as Abacus Cla- the ordinary cymbals have the fingers at the ends) on the arched surface of the extel Z let the whole business be absolved; The abacus of keys here refers to XZ; let them obtain their proportional length, the bar or support of the head OP. you will glue the surface of the instrument in an arcuate manner, because the strings are by tightening the iron bars, he will determine their length from P to O. Chordte, indeed at the end of the it is fastened with iron or wooden nails; at the end of the AC sweep Cells are fitted, which are surrounded by chords, to be strained and relaxed, for a concordant ar they may; The chords do not touch the GN Wheel, but from its ends around tia i part of the fingers are distant. But the handrails, which we call steps, are applied within, fpaciumHL, so vt fingulgchordte have their handles; as they are bound by that industry As the shafts of the palms of Abacus bend inwards, let us touch the palms at the same time nir, hold down the handles of the palms tied to the shafts, the cords with which the heart they answer, they lick up the rot, which the rosin having been rubbed round and refined before in the town, at last he presented a sound of confidence. Verily vthtecmelius are understood, with separate eyes then it was thought to present the mechanism. Let there therefore be within the space HL a long bow, or a support of wood, cut out of so many strands, how many instruments have handles or strings, through which the iron wire is wound, and one of them is passed through the tails of the handles, so that the handles around the iron wire as if they could be raised or depressed about the axis. Spring fi matter more deeply in the vnoatq; on the other hand let us declare to the bridegroom and the palm; the palm of Abacus becomes N, his spear NML; which in the wood KL shall be fastened with a nail arranged inwardly; But the handles refer to the SVT, qug inside the crenas rm the supports QR are secured by passing through an iron wire. But let them have ma nubria in V rings to which the inserted thread is connected to the cumannuli spears pahnulteNL. in M. but the extremity of the handles in T. should be somewhat crooked, because of the crookedness of the chorus das in T can be picked up more easily; in fact, the supposed string is placed immediately under the handle however, vt does not touch the end of the handle] at all, but is a little far away, vt the string from he stretches out; it will therefore be done, viz. , at the same time as the palm N is pressed into the Abacus or the probe XZ, the thread MV in the palm of M, and affixed to the handle of V, the handle of SVT, with its extremity T chor put the resin over the wheel, first apply the rosin, which has been well scratched, as by vibrating the string with its own tone, it should present the desired sound with confidence. And Of one palm and handle we have said, of all others we have decided to make a similar agreement; must must be understood. The wheel on the tool is marked with the letter NG, so that it is equipped with teeth thus, as a vertebra, commonly called a rock-bettum, marked with the number grasping them, the wheel through a loop or a whorl through the hole of the door) translated by its Z axis, externally around can be rotated; or by a weapon, or by an automaton, or by some other kind of genius, of which It was said in the foregoing, and it will be said in what follows. : And these things having thus been rites performed. RotNG is the sixth part of the circle existing outside the instrument arched surfaces inches wide, resin or pitch rosin is best or The artificer was skillful, having first rubbed the whole circumference with the resin of the horse The shape of the cymbals is wonderful, and the concert is it is knocked out: Ci Va
Musurgue Universalis fiue ArtU Confini tz) Difiont But because the plucking of the strings does not establish harmony, except that of the fingers in a different way. instead of an established harmony, the artificial application of the chords of tangents approaches; this, the scraping of the strings, also produces no harmony, unless it approaches the abacus of the keys artificial stimulation; For these manub. ijssuis artificially attached, while pressed ma a stretch of cloud with the ends of the fingers under the chords, glimmers the depressed ones, from which-- Fidicina produces the desired harmony so precisely and ingeniously, that whoever or when they heard this, they thought they perceived the sweetest Chelyus symphony. As the hfc machine is rendered automatic, the wheels are made of resin or with weights or with a cylinder The strongest steel is to be animated by tension, or as it was said in the superior bus, by water movement circuagenda, whose teeth are involved with the teeth phonotactically, vtraqi sharks te moved by the pore, he lifting the palms and the handle, the service of the hand, the bow of the horse nor will he supply the ministry; they will be arrested
Machinery VII. Build an automated machine for each type of tool to present a symphony.
T who in the instrument of Chelinm, Harparum, Tortusdinum, Theorbarum, cIaue- let another symphony of cymbals, organs, regalia, and others be restrained He will adorn the machine with what follows from his genius. The entire body of the moving instrument ABCD is divided into three floors, qua- let the former XZ claucymbal contain all that pertains to it and be fertile. but floor B is a little larger than the former, for the pipes of all kinds of organs, Re to the Gauls iimilibusquc inserted the lists of customs, each of them placed in their registersjdijjsjs rizontj, parallel prostrate should contain the grace of smaller space. The third floor! the wheels, the cylinders, and the wheel will take over; Organopb I do not doubt my mind without avoiding it. they will perceive with difficulty. For here to describe everything exactly; nor the capacity of the chart, nor He took time out of straits, especially when in the preceding book VI. we describe them. To whom Finally, the main engine, that is, a symphony of instruments of all kinds the device of the exhibitor of the instruments is superimposed, and it is completely rational, e, than pre- cecknti Machinamento VI. it was said; but we will explain the language more particularly. The interior of the first floor will contain a clavier furnished with ene strings three Registers, as the names attached to the instrument indicate, distinguished, to which folds ordinari) exhibits cymbals; but the other under the motion of the deer (thus, let us call on the cymbals the plumed wood strings inciting the so-called forest) irne chor push, the harp exhibits the most perfect sound; which consists of an alternate sound m certain accomp by the tuning of the wood to which the strings of the harp acquire their sound. A well-known fact to older artists; but if you promote the third Registrimi, the bucks will fall and whistle with the taxilles, these, jumping on the strings, make a sound exactly like the pipes, which they call deaf similar So you have in the triple register a triple instrument harmony clan cymbals, harps, and the like of the tube, to which the device in the previous proposal will approach (for this I will hold the highest place and the last place of the supe you must hear in it every kind of instrument, and to the flutes, viols, and lyres They could recall the symphony. He pretended to be pleased with himself by touching the palm of his upper hand they have pegs, which touch with their palms, or the carpet, the second floor, or the floor they lean on the cymbalis; but the fruitful palm of this storey, subjects others to him
they have Aeneas styli, which are platysmatics for the interior of the organ, on the third floor inside they stand Hence let it be that while the palm of the upper and outer thumb is pressed down, he is depressed let them lower themselves by means of their pegs, touching the cymbals on which they rest with their palms. and he they press their subordinates with new styles on the firm floor of the pneuma organ sSMva); ZKA-OVM
tic platsmatias with which they rest, the platifmatia is thrown open by the pressure of the styli But how uv-mQuws consonant each one so take, stota resinarla NG ea pror the pig is moved by means of which the plates are violently twisted between the cylinder H and the weights that, or the water peréneitì, we taught that the wheels could be moved it produces an unusual sort of forium, even through an intermediate phonotactic wheel. the cylinder moves, through the mutual connection of the biting teeth. Teeth verily, in the cylinder phonoracticótircumacto harmoniously arranged the extreme languages pal the clamor of the mules, seizing and lowering the ropes with blows They make harmony, and sing all kinds of harps and lyres. haîpalmu-: laz again through his subjects the pegs and palms of the cymbals on the fertile floor secretly pressing, according to the triple order of the Registers, a triple symphony with cymbals, harps, and pipes, they will present a concert. But the palm of the cymbals by the Ferreos the platysma of the organ in the third floor, pressing the old in the manner of royals, they now give a concert of flutes. Which and an infinite variety you will be able to change according to the direction of the registers a little, trumpets and cymbals, a little after the organ, pipes of all kinds, de you may perceive a concert mixed with all kinds of things. And also one instrument with all kinds of musical instruments; they will be drunk But you will discover our mind more easily from the figure attached, for neither it is possible to present all and every item exactly; curious reader a trained bus from a figure presented in any way will easily capture my mind. vdo
'To compare the organic automaton with the voices of animals let him present a concert with flying colors. See Icons. XXI. in SCOICI
T h$cmachinafolertiusómniitexibeate, the movements of animals and their VOICES. we first described it. Any one; therefore at first Coccygis or cuckoo vo ces estariimusils present with its natural movement, vt above in a place abounding with waters te Camera let the amlia A, which the wind created by A into the anemothea pB, be formed gregetirotamqud CD through the hole C with the rush of rushing water around, axiš vé ro EF its vertebra E will grasp the teeth of the cylinder QP. in which the voices of the animals
you will drink this deal. You will form an image of the hood that you are standing on the top of movable tail and beak impinging on the bar of the beast's beaks it will however, the yectfs to which the tail is con it will be lifted up, and so the cuckoo will be seen to sing if it dances with its beak!
This is how you express his voice in the cylinder. Enter the secret anemothecLchB two pipes fe- miditono or any minor between the fndistnntesyvtmotx here exhibit, store, two platifmatijsrrrespondents, attached to these iron wires, the opposite of which is declared a little later we steal When this is done, the OP handles of the IHK are inserted into the axis of the cylinder, the ends of which ap catch the teeth rot phonotactic. In the wheel, however, the voice of the cuckoo is next to the notes a little before the application. Cuckoo makers ca sound 'Musuraia Vmuersdu fiue Anu Consoni Dissoni nr. ru in the first of which in each of them the teeth are first placed with a sword divided by each. in any order, either interrupted or continued. For these teeth do nothing else but to exhibit the motion of the cuckoo; For if you are stuck with an iron catfish! Of which I spoke a little before bamur, handle siuépalmute HO, just around the cylinder, teeth Q9 in the cylinder
in the body of the cuckoo it is coded, the beak of the cuckoo is depressed with a rod, but the tail of the rod is fustok lt, whence you will do better if the teeth are not carried in a continuously ordered interrupted cylinder, Now present the voice of the cuckoo in circular lines of which the former Csolyfa&ty the other A la, mi answers, when the leader answers to the notazvni time, one tooth in li nea who occupies the middle touch, you are on the other side of the rv line of my former aqualé, leaving the space for half-pause, always with alternate repetitions, until the cyhndru is lightened, when this is done two iron sila Hr, Kt are connected with the palms of the platform, rt, for the cylinder is surrounded dro, palmula HK alternately eleuat$ from the teeth of the cuckoo expressing the song priment rt man u bria, h$c depressed iron silos they will open the platforms, with which open come entering the pipes will express the desired sound of the cuckoo; expressing, as it has been said.
fabri- T7 Adero you express exactly the song of the cock that flutters its wings; Let them be again in Cy Let the body of the rooster Z be formed from any material, with wings and a movable beak. below which a certain kind of flutes expressing the cock's song is celebrated, which Or- ganopaeinorunt, with one RST taxillis of the Platfinatiorum, indu intraanomotheca fis, qya: you will join the handles of LMN with iron fihs. So in the first cylinder circle lo mc the teeth are arranged showing the movement of the wings of the cock, either a continuous movement or
interrupted, as he pleased. And in the circles of the cylinder the rooster's song, teeth exorimes according to the notes here presented handed down side by side in the orecedents. mules of handlebars MT NO, elevating 5V, depresses the taxis of the plates RST, With what passion the platforms T are opened, when we open them, the sound enters the pipes of the rooster then he will express But the handle of Lr with an iron wire with other three wires in a knot cPconéxe (quo rum "two wings, rertitiit connected with the beak) and the wings will open, and the beak. For the reason of God the position of the teeth on the cylinder; The Gauls therefore presented a song and a movement, which rat prista nduni Gonfèctarium I I It is clear that if you take the large and long cylinder of fate, it is the animal of all animals that the motion and voice of this genius could be presented, geese, croaking ducks; You will perceive the voices and movements of animals no less with the ears than with the pleasure of the eyes. Although it is true that the teretifmos of Lnicini above in the first book were presented beautifully in cylinder no we can exhibit it; however, I would advise sparing adlfbori, such the chattering of the flutes scattered here and there immersed in water, which they commonly call the song of birds to represent each type of nps we have here shown a vessel marked by a sigmi Enter what? or y. diuetsa; greatness, with an abundant desire for curiosity; Lederò will satisfy
They Uh. Phondtic magic iuid. ni j jrinund vallivi vain ni nivianix iptiUMttijUAiOf viaiilUla cisiséff nuJIarh suffers difficulty; prtefertim si Artifexhucufq uedictitritè intelle she will Why did many words place Iconism here? I trust that it will be given.
Innumerable others of these j.
how much more do we leave it to the talented Artificer to carry out the work j For us experience doctosscribere, a hydraulic organ, which was actually in the Quirinale garden by order of the Pope while we are writing this, we are ordering it, fate will testify, wherever it is said in this place, ip so we present it. . v V L
Ma- Hammered proportionately lest Double On the other hand Proalamba names MusurgU FnìwrsalU stue ArtU Consoni DtJJom Machine X Presenting the Pythagorean Automata to the three hammers Cyclofumfrofortionatos, disposed' V ide honif. X XII As for the harmonic mechanisms, what follows deserves to be pre-eminent. is- that Pythagorean Music composed atbmalleos, as often as it is in several parts of the heart We presented it to the various princes with so much applause and admiration, viz
they seemed scarcely satisfied afterwards. Mutica has a place especially in the Comcedijs ingeniously ex giving The octaphonic modulation is distributed in r chords. Time continued threefold the proportion is followed, they give the measure of the hammer in that proportion, vt greater than the middle fef the other, and iji should have at least a double proportion Verba affiiiguhtur Vulca- noCyelopes Cu. O$ to forge arms in some notable expedition animating; M They call upon the anvil, and with the triple sound of the hammers, while they strike the anvil, the Càhtòres treble measure precisely, with your voice following m leap and gesture, dculiyàu- tqmatoexhibite abh&m srob 5iip iiinc nxi sb onihiaif. , Organunr, with all its belongings? rqtis, camera zone, rotifqqé maphinâm iheitaotis ex pi Recede n tib we suppose here. But the Pythagorean Melothesia is with us comet text, malleotwjie proportion, eli following. ,obBno3 mtn
Lib. Phonotaftia magic,
let's clap thee with the numbers of melosef fi ci Let's clap with the hammers and dance thee This Melothefia of triple proportion divided into voices by phonota cylinder ttico, for that purpose, I have given you the reasons above which I have given in the exercise of progymnasmata mouse For in those times that is, it is established by touches; The entire cylinder is divided into parts It must be distributed around, then each? parts again in; other parties, however, that the note of this melody should be worth one third of the time, but the length of the cylinder so that the order and series of the palms of the palm of the hand, as you see done above, should be distributed; The handles will also be adapted to the cylinder, and the iron wires of the anemothecg will be included they are connected, because it was handed down in the proceedings; After these things had been done, Melothefias here ap put the ectophone into the cylinder, with the teeth in their places, each note of the heart correspondingly affixed True, proceeding from the shape of Iconism, a better purpose will unfold the organ, -tolia Chamber A the first mobile, the water wheel CB, vt in the first XX ri Artis Consoni gj Dissoni
partners) why are you delaying? ziiizÌSz: partners) ri machine, let it remain; becomes the cylinder ABCD in spaces the lothesias denote, divided, each of these spaces again into other spaces, quajiadiuidatur And indeed the fourth part of the cylinder AHBG for the movement of the hammers you would feel; the rest of the veròspace of the cylinder, is woven answering, musically goric will serve to be transposed. Each of the three-parted swords included as many major lines the times designate, jìyerò interior fpaciola denote the time of triple proportion, vt therefore it is very easy to bring this melothesia into the cylinder. For each of the teeth in the cy lindro placed correspond to each no. tjs. True, when Iamin proceeded melo- to teach the manner of transferring the days into the cylinder according to the triple proportion let me send the Reader back to us. How, then, did the Cyclopes with his hammers, and statue leading the dance with the touch of the hammers, we may exhibit, take these:
dr Lik Magia Phmota&ica.
chained, applauded with organs, violins, lyres, and harps 2—zEzzlzZ dri AHCG is divided into circular spaces, the first of which are divided into three Cyclopi- determining circular spaces, to which circles the three handles of ZVX correspond, Oe you will order the corresponding ones by playing the triplet sound like this: in the circle in each of the lines ma at the beginning of the touch you put one tooth, then in the second line of circle In the same way, I cut one tooth in the third line of the circle one tooth at a time you put it, they will have it; each three spaces, placed in order, measuring the touch, teeth, According to the value of those who respond to the heart is noted at one time, because it appears very clearly in the figure.
When these are done, you will make statues proportionate to the size of the machine, of which they exhibit three Cydopes equipped with hammers of the same proportion; close the fourth Vulcan while the forceps bring back the iron holding; And the Cyclops, eating threefold sound, You will make the machine in this way, in the locohumeror of the arms of the velvet, the axis is turned within the poles; cx axis veto extreme training! a kind of brachiorum is formed af3&b g. in which lest the hammer should be attached to the stick instead of the hands, he should also have an axis in the middle of the hand brium c, to which an iron wire is connected. So this skeleton is made of wood or cloth sties, that the intrinsic artifice is hidden from the onlookers; for when the thread is depressed, the axis is always from the circle act jfo qsMusurgiFmtiersalid siue artu Finini DiJJoni EE! EE5E: 5:
M W MM k lvy, : Fr Beat it three times where are you from Ioni?
immediately the act will release the hammer, which then hangs on its own anvil, cutting the sound from will quote See figure The iconography is attached here. Otherwise you will finish the rest of the statues. Incus should be made of a very resonant material, inte If, in addition, you take another arm from the axis, that also heads the Cyclo- he will shake the pum; But we leave all this to the work of ingenious artisans. If, then, iron wires, attached to the vertebrae of the cyclops, with the handles of ZYX, you join them, it shall be done that the handles of the round cylinder shall be pressed down with iron wires, having been removed from the teeth of the cylinder let them open, h$c open the sound of the tandé treble they eat perfectly, melothesia as Pythagoras says cam driven by cylinder; At the same time, and exactly at the same time, the handles of the ZYX tooth but being placed in triple order in the space of the AHBG, they will lower the vertebrae widely within the Cyclops a thing by which, by the depression of the hammer, in a threefold order, the virus will be cleaved one after the other, and they will be the same retreating in order, in the anvil a triplet sound correpondcnt in all the notes they will eat; For the handle Z with the teeth of the circle in the first line of the depressed pri mum will lift the hammer; But the handle Y after this teeth in the circle seconds Lineolae inset very low, fertile; a statue? he will lift the hammer; Finally, the handle X
teeth Book X oftîdgtà Phonotâica. Là ESSERi: rz: r
Queiscxpugnetur Morpheus ij. Morpheus fought against them. with the teeth in the circle z, lines of the inlaid, depressed, the hammer of the third; stand up and thus the first touch will be completed; and with this agreement the blows of the hammers in order with a constant and very proportionate movement, the times of music; Pythagoras; measure they are The matter is now set forth in clear form, so that it needs no further instruction.
But at the same time they perform triple dances in other states, with marks and hammers accordingly v. orrefpondentcs, itaage. Not teeth; DC cylind iphonotactici another ver the darkness of the teeth is brought down; whose axis ends and is pointed below in Mveluti It should be turned around by a pole or a matrix, and it should be fixed on the axis of the wood or the beams of the RT, not in place can be moved; But at the other end of the axle on an RV wheel of any size three times he threatens, in whose circle you set up variously portrayed statues; let the whole wheel be hidden inside, decide indeed, so many stand out abroad; and the movement was visible with a triple leap and a gesture You are a genius. On the hips of the statues is placed an axis through the middle of which, an iron wire from the nail drawn down must be fixed at the bottom of the vt in figure III is clear, for this is a little wire The thicker torso will support the mass of the entire body, then the rudiment of mobile legs— there will be those who have an iron wire stretched out in their locks; let the earth be twisted at a right angle, whose nodes are here attached in the figure— suntrg, bb, but on the sides of another immovable internal rote, the teeth of that order should protrude jfj JVlusurgtd Vniucrjalis(lue ArtU Confini J)iJJonì
he fitti placed vt twisted threads, movement rot? legs gliding into them, alternately back they act thus the curved wire bh in the tooth l illimus the moves back, behind, f but for a third part of the time the leg fc thread bh into the tooth hm illisum'dennò retroage tur, and thus the leg always made a triple movement, from the hammers, and corresponding to the sound of the organ tem, he will lie to himself. But if heads and trousers seem to be milking, it is necessary to dictate of statues imbedded in wood subtilicapita, Sc in the axis of p. gbrachijsconiunSHireamsLalir bretijr, which we signed in the figure letter a seems to be constantly tossing about. Statues animated by this genius, he chooses either wood or cloth clothes, so that nothing intrinsic to the design appears, habc. bisintent. fi If indeed I was staged as much music as you would like to report; the measure of the movement of the breast was measured by the handle i particular MS, that fpacioGH reppondeât within the said fpaciiiim teeth of the order, nabis filling the entire touch, but a little bit to the touch. discrimi- swimming separately, as the figure teaches; Then let the arm cb be placed in the middle of the efibrmatgstatus around the axilla d mobile, from the point-fiiom iron hidden m eatu, chioY taxillosiue cadentia-KSjcdntie"3iatur, & ex alterobrachiotf eiusdem taxMàd the iron wire will be connected to the handle mn- you will have an expedient task. For the cylinder is driven round by the water-wheel CB, while the teeth in the phonota- ctica manubria. illisis fdatifmatia organ aperit, melothesia first pyt5)agdricam- the handles of vcroZYX teeth in a triple order, space A HCG implanted, I muse the Cyclopic ca, that is the triplet sound of the mallet, it will give a temporary note on the other hand, the crooked wires incident on the hidden teeth of the rot&immovable will cause a movement the mere music of both Cyclops and Pythagoras in all congrdtirm DenlqUt handle with mn teeth fpacij HG depressed taxillus RS with an iron wire through the arms X joins together and lowers the arm of Y, to whose depression the arm)' in the I pray that it is necessary to obtain relief and depression. N was established next to Naér I would perfectly express the time, agn it will be seen to give a touch or applause. We therefore exhibited the Pythagorean automaton of music, Cyciopicd, which of wheels, leaves, or cylinders phonotaBici rmniperio3sedJolo This new machine is so completely easy and pleasant, and so on in my Museum the audience perceives with great admiration the silence of the instrument The window has been closed for a long time, but soon it will be closed
when it was opened, behold a harmonious quidairu. the sound suddenly sprung up, as if all thunders while they cannot know, vn- dissonusproueniat, or something inslru mind, for neither of fiduciaries, nor IHIffl ir but a certain middle and completely gone UlT does the sound matter
then it is done. The pine tree echoes The instrument is to be made of spans long, two broad, one deep, this instrument has equal strings from ani the bowels of animals, or even more, as is evident in the preceding figure. folded brought down through bridges IK&SD: jdauisBD are attached; Rosse are FFF. S an sa, q u a, sti fpendijp offit smista tqon cordano q u vy neretcra in stiiMcp tper or must be completed. But all the chords are of two tones or oóìauas, vtharmonioîus so if it follows, they must be agreed upon. This is absolutely amazing St prqp, e; gteve, v quo you can just put the chords in the VnifoBem or Q$aqas tepfir diuerfaip they are True, I do not know whether it is a mute phenomenon or not. will be analyzed more thoroughly, and the causes of the said sounds will be explained3. test jati ouo, vt dicz we usually order, but where the instrument conditions, where it should be established, first de-, the loudest
oh! The place of the instrument is not in the open air, but in the closed Game. be debetptatame. n vt. ytrin that the air should have free passage and access. But the wind was forced in various ways
test, first through the conical and spiral channels, by which I collected the voice above inside the house mus, then through valuas: Let two valusex lignò EF, in F VD thus joined, As well as with the access prsrbeâtadspaciuintra FV&K&FE parallel tables cóprehesu. -VV-V. à v. Vt; tiur-tciDiiitj vioqiib m ei. o) r. . invi 2Î3îAcjiîfifÌBin1! jfige salt Siibfiopx L Vioilv 2'jibI orjprmmv br. itiXt i v'jii-oftirms 3ari v-iuvmslirn s-aol ii bouO. f nrl al; : iqv to them I add Love. :
21DU. I i, q rt; v On the outside of the gate, the boards are stored inside the box, which are arranged at the back of the slot SN the chin is attached, so that it is covered by the slanting fit of the slit SN and confined within the confines of the tables BV EF, Aper slipped through the gap, all instructed to strike the chords of the SONR of the mind. For if the instruments had a parallel position to the tables! , n6 adeò felice, if indeed we have said that it has been so oblique, vt all the chords of the wind have been expbsi- let them be, the best fuccesiiim will be drawn by lot. For the gentleness of the wind is wonderful, but the vehemence is wonderful you will perceive the harmony within the room, from time to time all the strings vibrate in a certain way whether, sometimes the singing of the birds, or the sometimes singing of the hydraulic organ, of pipes and other strange sounds, without anyone even suspecting that they were prepared whatever kind of mind it may be, or by what hand, by what artifice, it may produce harmony, and it will be this instrument is so much more worthy of concealment and admiration, inasmuch as it has been hidden from you each one Moreover, if you close all the windows and close them, the sound will be silent when they are closed as well. soon, even at the opening, with his usual sound, he will fill those present with wonderful pleasure.
fil j v. y. b K ntniJîftt: Ó nhq3Up3ÎO
-inn antri nor; -mcbludiup aab: -Horb: rmiunsv i; ufîBt3-seen. you are Co- SS4 Musurgìoe Universal fitte Consorti tz) Disotti he will prepare himself in the tower of someone in an open place, for that reason adapted, Vt in the manner of the aplustri or the indicia of the winds is turned to that Wind which actually breathes, and thus I thought the air animated fuapte whoever the next scraper will pierce. But that prodigious harmony in the high air should be perceived with astonishment; pi sce or the flying Dragon (whose fabric was in the Parastatic Magic of the Great Art: You will decorate the lights and shadows described on both sides of the chord let them be extended, which soon vt vt liberoriaur commiscrisene siue attractedo, siuelatoto, ma gno semper impetuchord$ will be excited by the intended effect of muliCL care. But if instead You form a flying angel of the dragon; so much more prodigious a show will he give ma bowing, as the sound became fainter and rarer. Countless others with this help They will be able to make effective devices, not unlike tricks; Where did these things arise? we leave Nothing remains but to show why the strings are extended to equal sound yet they make a different hfriPMnia. I suppose, then, that the first experiment follows. I who had a string of guts stretched out by the wind in preparation a little before lo having expounded, he will observe i. to sound the string just now, not with that sound of the extended string I must, but quite differently, for only the third, the fifth, and the nineteenth or to keep the twenty-second, from time to time the third, the fourth, or the sixth; The cause of this matter As there was no one who was able to repay, be the true smoke of our parties You would open your account here. I suppose, therefore, in the first place, that the wind is not always carried with an even force upon the string, but rays, as it were, now this part of the string, now that part of the string, now slower now to strike with a swifter attack, and to strike this poor man with ease. by the force of the wind, because of so many divers things I show that there are sounds. So JMsagta, RhoncitaHicaVA. jhjy Let the chord AF be the favorite of G, which if you cover the whole chord AF in one single attack hendat, it is certain that chordatniliam ftfqpriurasslflmqqi belongs to its extension, so shall I eat C foluseam, this
tes CA&CF to the whole diapason fonntfhty as in the monochorus division we demonstrated. :ù For the ray of the wind was followed, ifjgp piped smo
io patfibusCACF. ,dupjp: vejqciy? sona- bit, whence necessarily the string. vmys, octaua; . iusetuallo altiusijttqnab-it rWWchWWio-La Smltàdiiaq hoopib manesio Ksah wind pressure ABliquaiparSiShqrdasEF oecfissarioquintamfqoàMtšb diSsifcitio- eesto diuisionft: tnp, nacbordi; agaMsj simumtowmspacium AD serit wind, nqyin tam a: sic dpoeteris i i l itaquje; véntiqaJia other incidents in chordamVin éaalios &asioR'fosios Why the wind in Whence measure the windy radius m the chord; part tantoifoxda diuerfol iium producetgraui. oriCm, quanto, veirò minotpm tanto grauioremxjQyod ìgiàsi lonof ProdK the wind makes a string, it will make innumerable alijstgqujifojn js, atqpgàkcK genuine cati- cat
The sound of such a long time is perceived in the instrument, it is born from tremulus quidemionus, affecting wonderfully hahejnisiati vnduhioue of the wind, which is not always, rightly impulsed in the manner of the flows
mina sth i r, , rGorollarium. p7 X It is also clear from these that one and the same chord can produce infinite different sounds hiup mr; hnc: ;r. 'ihaaidrb I. ii fe; For the wind, even if it is a bit more difficult, presses the string in one place, in another and another place weaker eâ premés, nouas&pQuaspamiriet sonor u, dissérétiasNam si v. g. pressed on C strongly, in Bdébititcr, it is certain that it is not quite a diapason, but something intermediate îîiqb x pno. hsirrrbe' Machine X I on suf. in
Every race showing sympathetic harmonic experiments.
vv SKVttvoX xxWîVSYi va We call empathic experiments those in which; to the sound of others they resonate untouched, c by the proportion and similitude of the bodies of the rascals, with which it is made, vt to sleep one, the other also moves untouched: indeed, this proportion in bodies is not so it is both homogeneisyfed and has a place in heterogeneous Whence most of them touch the na ture of which, however, no one except the mysterious musicians has easily distinguished them notice, he will give reason And indeed he will not move the other string untouched. in vriifonum only, but also in diapason and diapente concordats, as in vulgare is although it is always so untouched that it trembles more violently, the closer it becomes to each other We will not assign at this point the reason for this effect, as I have fusiflimed it in the foregoing We will discuss, but only the manner in which most things in natural magic contain wonder. We will open it if possible. Yy Experience 3jf Fnkmfilis fiucArtU Consoni s) Dissoni t. nrtrni oiiuibnilò uov 'IA msbtòda meaoi itiup #Dtysnavâ&ihîefia -di tiijytputi: t: .ità inolia ExperifhtintSfìSB mLlVal à Sv rairti31 ci e, C I Z s. To present Sympathetic Music To e fi infìrumchtum concinnale ì to any high Agent, mfìSytmawcQt harmful, zanAufytlinoggah dies Iijsqite, in this way the truth will be perceived more distinctly. Accrpè instVumen t5 chords distitijctsi sonojiisimo ligno compactu, cuiu smodi in M âctMam'Cntó 'X. 'própósoàu s, huius e gairifisttilds'pei&ctèvhisonenc. plóctptifâctò ad sokîtfirginii cHsostvàjcnto inàum retreat, until you see that it is perfect.
fidicinum ab soltiuš so eper&béfris iftfiyùmfehtdrnad pariètes: HTffdH6i: È8! vicinorulfl Ctitidâuiti SS opiimèfBpei'tiSm-OfgSâiiontiiauffid'tâ'tìidiu àcsità-appàànvLMmiua witness and the source of your trust cinum-om neitfha ratiniam erga iti intiti-fepâ ratuiti locym' will present perfectly, &nepu+ tei me speculaiiètìetH tantùm traà-Mtze i quâefftifHÌi Orga no Mdgun tinoXDhelya in ykino choipetidenté casu ineitanti'tetplimui, de rei verrcàte ntìitòitì ubiùni will remain In this only the only difficulty is, vt quisìnueniat pèrfectarn corporuncL-. He has no likeness and proportion to the distance, which he has found doubtless wonder what in nature fefinutfniffe. can be glorified. For it is of bodies, It is a similitude of certain sonorities, viz
the otter should also be found, the vticurios in the r. 2. -this; We showed the book to Qiue experience teaches us everything else; For if those who play harps, tiorbas, cymbals and similar instruments I decided to rely on did he obtusely remove them) tium, a kind of exotic organ}rititatitischarmo caused by the movement of the air alone with the voices he will not perceive it without astonishment. A a fmAiwaiEsndoBAl Consequence. n v v. p. uw-
From the statue they moved to a certain sound. .us v t-t t. .nssov But in the cited place, you state certain things that have been in Ecc v. A bell is attached to a string to a certain organ pipe (for all prefects so that those crying out for the miraculous movement of the statues) were to be It is therefore clear from to those who have gone before, how should any statue in the Church be erected which produces a similar effect? they can be broken. For the statue is made of porous wood, and is proportionate to the sonorous body above trastfera porosom then no doubt it will do the trick. On this kind of Egyptian magic states, ad see our Egyptian Oedipus, where many curious things are fabricated by the deception of the people. &reconditartpetieSfiubs)ru -Mm. uife experience Lib. Phonotaphic magic.
who has made a parabolic or hyperbolically shaped cylinder, he knew that he had penetrated the secret of the miiiuria. let's divulge secrets, parabolaplasts mae òpe eflsormerar semiindrus concauus paraboJi- cus, òd fier, siforitìam pàraboloplasten constanti L a straight movement in a material suitable for fertile length you have translated; for by that movement in matter yielding and soft a parabolic semi-cylinder will be formed; àdrairâ- dx in sympathetic harmony exhibeda. virtutis. Yes tem business is organized They are presented with the greatest two diligences in the finite parables of the hearth, from which I will prepare the rum of one string to lead in the other opposite! finished with the fire and strained, it will be ready for the red to the lymphatic forum But state the matter in letter figure HG are foci pa A dam or a cord HG extended through each hearth by any movement, even the smallest, he will be incited any section of a semi-cylinder made normal to the axis pa- in a semi-cylindrical shape that surface is infinite the parable of the cup is poffint; it becomes like a voice or a sound and a movement of the air any parabolic surface in this semicylindrace incising, while only cutting the cylinder at right angles, he would make as many parabolic actinobolisms as there were parabolas they polish the waters conceived in the said fcmicylindr. When- as the table passes through the HG fireplace, it will pass consequently of all the other parabolas in the said fcmicylindrical conception fireplaces When the flow in the centers of the foci is affected by the inflow and confluence of the rays, get at the same intensity of the sound. The whole ergóchord by the confluence of multiple rays, impelled and the light, driven by multiplication, will tremble, and will sound like-
f Corollary I. yours Chorda who I continued there eating foni them. . b ii. iJlr. u i n s It is clear that if someone touches three of the four adjacent chords around the focal point the wall should be permanently exhibited in a convenient place or exposed to the wind. for he has hcsonora li- nea HG a certain physical width, and a certain space, within which the intensity ra of the gods, and the effects of caustics or censures. Simon; .hv tij or Corollary II. v: iv uiisihm i iin How can you perpetuate any statue? .fcc follows the second; that if any one could easily bend a steel fin instead of a string the infoco G was attached to the weight of V to balance it with energy, and the image on the head with movable and versatile limbs he would impale the future, like this statue with a pinna. Ppe- 3tX $AusurgieVniuersalis fîue Artis Consoni Dissoni Perpetuò mouretun For since the confluence of agitation of the air is perpetual in every iinea It happened to her, she was continually stimulated, and also continually moved, leaning down in one secure position
the said image is to be stirred up, and indeed so much more vehemently, in proportion as it was moved stronger. went
From these it is clear that the knowledge of conic sections presents us with miracles, it is true when the magic of the light will come from these things; shall we deal with them? I took the longer ones muse mtibrtu
Experiment III. r i jjiji a ž ii ano d ctaq euibn i npur; i undamion Cbordaisono glass.
who has first scraped the edge of a glass cup with his fingers he will perceive the dam of the market. if he had extended his hand to him he owes his music to a strange sort of 'tS(CriordàUm with the noise of the composer fDe this trizÎA in nrifYlH ridi'si ikrl try, see more thoroughly we treat you in the first part of this right book. ;
t Where is the mix? 3oi driprri i iH; yes my il OH -icix
He thinks he hears so many great bells ringing.
St and this sign and to the great surprise of the listeners rapturous experience then, he received the chords of the major chelis (which they commonly call Vipione) to him You will bring a brass plate, or something else, to the sound of the tinkling and sounds of the body and put the end of each string with his fingers into his ears, and let it hang down a blade to the body of the other one, burns you to perceive the door, which you have never persuaded yourself with a plum the bells, that is to say, the sound of all the bells will sound far beyond; if in the right place you will receive a fnae rule of the plate (the longer one is suitable for the intended purpose of the business rem) you will perceive from a high and sharp: formidable m exactly the sound i. and indeed the longer the string, the more intense the sound. Of course, there is another reason for this matter it is nothing but the vibration of the tinkling metal, which communicates the tinkling of the string as it communicates The sibichordafremitum leads to hearing, vbiclauius internal air through the muscles his acoustics are violently shaken, and thus also a very violent sound from there is That is certainly wonderful, not other bodies, but only those which enjoy tinnitus, vtme= tastic plate all the rules, to perform this effect. .j J J Corollary
An instrument of this kind within some cistern resounding violently through you let go of the string, At the end you will insert the ears, then the plate you will be chained to the wall and you will hear, above what can be said, a strong voice composed of various voices bus roar twt V vp 23JstXfa'r ii iV c mi. .
experience LiklX. Phonotaphic magic. jfp Experiment V. By the voice of Zylorgan this is from the various and harmonic varioru testeJOr uligncorC, vines different? the size of the arrangement to be constructed iit, in the Organica
Experiment I On the various changes in the chords.
The horde incites the sound according to the condition of the bodies underlying that place of the bridge; l so if the string is stretched out; to a larger one, with pebbles thrown in, a bladder inflated by the wind you will shave the string with the bow and brush, you will hear a kind of funny sound, you will see it termedijsaptumifi you submit to the same glassy body, a strange tinnitura the string will be emulated, and so on from the rest; Which; all things supply a great peregnftotfi media Elm: on the altar -iu 3UOG2Î f'L nicVÎ Experiment VII Let the tsurd be a fly. . i li: Oh y -ooirrtu asZ nsdiri: mcbcop PLraìi v j! .ri By studying the oblong neck, he will accomplish the intended purpose. Let the Tortoise be equipped with faith cta, and the deaf man seizes the extremity of the neck with his teeth, and afterwards is provoked turtle in harmonic motion. The deaf and hard of hearing will perceive harmony the truth of the matter was taught to us by no other than an experiment made on a deaf man. For sound through the neck of the turtle propagated into the mouth, through the nerves in the acoustic organ, the force of hearing wonderfully exciting. The deaf will also perceive by Experiment V. I am persuaded by the ringing of bells.
Corollary. Xhis is clear, if in any instrument you attach a certain neck or bracelet the oblong itself is propagated continuously to any distance, viti by the termedio walls, as long as it does not touch the walls, the future will be like the end of the neck with the teeth
caught, the sound of the guitar; not otherwise than if he were present, let him present. For the same the effect of the zither is that the sound of the oblong beam spreads out We have said in the previous ones that since the neck is continuous with the body as a whole, it is certainly so firm faith, for those who are near and far, and so much so that the whole body trembles, who trembles when the propagation of the air is harmonic, the sound is consequently produced by the acoustic organ through the mouth and He will present his teeth in the distance as distinctly as if he were present. And this is enough about Mechanical Music. Nothing, then, remains, except that of Steganus Let's not say anything about graphics or cryptological music. d s i i iv. jyi. i f' sff' jfa r. .u d Sstoq- P ARS À&o AiujUrgi# firn Artide on soni fsj Dissoni MVSVRGIC CRYPTOLOGY
The art of Stgganography, by which the hidden abitil is éòtìètusper sounds to two or more different friends, .àEMWM ipacium, which through ìonuininitituipòiiit. not even now Mu- "Sfurói nofìrdesit', quombdó i d p e r so n u m can be done in this place no f, amScefb'iJniusqùàm innuemustànTÙrm; '
It should therefore be noted that there is a double Cryptologic art; the latter It is vocal, while it is obvious that the phone lies hidden in the distant Ipacius. they spread to a friend. Iviuta èstdisin perrlitera&fiueioh&r-actoresMusicos, impenetrable The same sense of the mind is shared by some type of writing we will explain in a few words. . lunch De Cfyptologia Mufarrica. . itobnfb? " Vm Cryptolomaîn this consists, vt in the remote space of the hidden concept of the mind the friendship of power is spread in many different ways; first in the rcmotilirnu the space through the more violent sounds, they fecundò in the prey space through the tubes It has been shown that the echotectonically constructed tes They are of the former kind the explosions of the warlike men, which from time to time ninety miles apart I hope that the wind will be heard in the first book shown in dst. Such was Alexander's horn The sound was so great, so violent, that the whole army, however scattered, was completely dispersed by his anger how he stood, as if he were speaking in a sobbing manner; the description of which I see given elsewhere. If the alphabet could be arranged in this way, the letters would correspond to so many sounds as we have taught elsewhere; I may give notice of the intention of any friend who is absent from his place which is another instrorfièntorun-i vehementiorisioni. This business has ramifications the added difficulty, namely, that there are great expenses, hidden and every device, instituted by these more violent sounds, was not concealed if he can, he will make you suspect, and betray him. Speculation or mathematics let us speak of this business, and let experience in Echonic Mufurgia teach us the sound of ice geometric feet Oumodo ns minute i. vnius horj Is it certain that this kind of vehemence of Ion is about the worm? cognizance, molem, distribution of vocal instruments succcssiuè published bo hours, pollenoua M is two days with a space of iz hours, whatever happens in the whole world, be known If it is possible to do so, it is perhaps in this way that we could come to the knowledge of the longitude of the regions, viti ali no let's say bi
Since Musurgic Christology.
But when Cryptology is to be instituted in an unreachable remote space, it is easy to establish it I will be able to use the instruments described in Echotectonic art, of which the first are channels all kinds of straight, conical, elliptical, spiral, from Incoin to a hidden passage for by the help of these two princes, even when they were absent, they they will be able to The manufacturer of all these acoustic instruments and we have described it very exactly in the above-mentioned Echotectonics thought fum here and there to deal with the tedious repetition of fusiùs about them; the mind will be able to deduce innumerable other things relating to this matter. In addition, everything The musical instruments handed down in the past can refer to this Cryptologic as much as possible
they are the difference of sounds, there are so many ways of expressing their concepts to one another. For the sound of flutes, cymbals, bells, and strings is humane canor, canor? , signs can be. For some introduction to this matter, mpnstrc-, mus, the alphabet is divided into five orders, assigning to each order letters, but to each order you will attribute a specific type of sound, as is clear from the following table.
Order "tJ Here is the Vsusuius alphabet. Are they significant? my friend, these words came quickly with me the first letter of the word Veni. Vsit Now count in the order of fifths fourth let him possess answer with the number? From the truth I will follow let the voice of the Iteracus be contained in the fruitful rim of the lyre, the order of the cymbals converging, cans. let him answer with the first number; will mean to give one stroke to the cymbals, for N in the fourth li- He occupies the first place in the order of the nations. finally, in a series of repetitions of number promising, he will teach one stroke of the bell to signify So you see the letter G indicate the three probes of the pipe; ; one stroke of the bell. T three sounds of the rattle; Oli- tcram, finally, two strokes of the chord? to signify Whatever, therefore, you mean by this agreement; the white circles mark the board furnished with holes, so that they differ in some sound then listen to it, and note the place of the taxi by placing each of the letters in order. enter olujurgia V ntuirsaiis stue artis Consoni q) Disotti And the tools I took away? put all the above into one very simple tool you will be able to wear what is four roanubrijs. What is the situation? to explain the sound with the mouth beware, lest you be compelled to add follies to the instrument; balo, the second bell, the third chord, the fourth rattle. From these it is clear. After constructing the alphabet, whose language? letters of different phonemes let them answer the bus, so that whatever kind of sound he immediately recognizes the letter. True since all these things are more minute, we leave them to be elaborated by others.
Musurgical steganography. The other musical Steganography consists in a kind of impenetrability by the musicians characters in writing, and it is complex. For at first he cried out all things to himself Is this the status of the aforesaid instruments to feel the end of this business, and so each one? litene let them answer each letter of the alphabet. Or by mufical notes, and this again on foot; the ascent and descent of the characters semi-shorts denote descent, as in the following example. Alphabetum Stegmographicnm musteum.
t u x y z The example of Steganogr aghi when we are forced to yield in these words.
c e d ere c g e mu r. After this agreement, under the known musicians, the elder of the occult spirit will give birth to the other or by the different value of the characters, as is evident in the following diagram of the alphabet. II. Musk Alphabet i J r, O P M jj ti He, a b c d e f g h i m n o p q r s tu x z. Or by different significations of different words, as follows. III. Musk's alphabet in words.
w WW pi Z abedef ghiklm nopqrs t uWxy z. Excellency Innumerable others of this meal; they can be conceived, which, however, I deliberately avoid in childish ways let's waste time, let's leave it. Some ingenious allusions expressed by musical notes, they are wont to manifest themselves to another, of which Ow eni is of this kind.
Dum tol li tur Aulicus said, while the other said. There are those who refer to certain syllables, which refer to musical voices, slurs, something ingenious in them they suggest, viz. Fame LA tere nequit Micat VT SOL glorified virtue: But when they were betrayed, we did not dwell on them; we will turn to the more detailed description. Zz L ART CONSONA AND DISSONANCE BOOK X DECACHORDON NATVRAE SIVE ORGANVM DECAVLVM
The nature of things in all to music harmony that the proportions had gone out, and so much of the Nature Armi nothing but music per-
It is shown to be very effective P R AE F A T I CX goddess, this And from the matter while that admirable order of things in the world, ma gri and the nature of maejlatem were more anxiously contemplated, that it could not be done they persuaded him; lest they should believe that God, whose machine is so ad a wonderful series of things, such remarkable wisdom and providence they would see; It is true that while they were left in the light of faith, they fell into various errors lapfi, they gave birth to various and totally discordant genius monjlra. For another the great world itself is thought to be a certain God and Damon, instead they worshiped the true God. To another Spirit became the soul of all the world the virtues and the permeating flow together; they believed Some Caleb Be faithful to worldly ideas, a border that spreads its forms to all things they were Book X Dccachordon natur
Xerunti, however, did not examine the nature of things and their innermost parts a little more carefully this soul of the world, as the Arabs call Cale Hodea, but to allude to nothing but Nature itself, the true &-vnic rtyyw rS id esi Constituent insomnia through her, found Art a mouse, whose wing pervades all things, nothing but Jimfjuv adapt to everything that is to say, a threefold and harmonious harmonic proportion, in which everything is arranged ca ser uan tur, the only activity of the effervescence of all those who marvel in nature and do we assert the cause and origin? And so that our intention becomes more and more clear nis target, perceiving the gradual progression of natural beings, hiding them individually sense and disagreement, hatred and friendship you read, by which things are formed by a certain confluence of friend and friend, they are separated from the enemy, to be clear from the consonance-dissonance, and to possess their own harmonics we declare that you are separated from Nature, all things have fallen into the confused chaos of things and the abyss into nothingness, it would be necessary for them to go away. The curious LeBor will find here the causes of the powers of stones, of herbs of evil, and the ajfeftion thereof, from thee, and a gate to a new kind of nature of the Magi open a factory, by which, by applying a discordant consonance, Bup may more effectually produce food in all things so uninvented, so completely hidden in the end of nature; that of this book opt either to hide himself, or to find where he is not miraprastarepojfit. We called it the Decachord, cinnato the nerves, and in the organ through the various systems of singulars, like nature Let us continue to praise the harmony of the world, and finally through the mundane I proved a deeper contemplation of harmony, finally in such a wonderful and incomprehensible way Organxdi vmsone, in God, I say, we would rest in the sweet center of all harmony. PART I ORGANVM DECAVLON C A P V T I D E VS Help. Max. By organizing, the world is organised compared
A G N V S he misunderstood DEVS from the stern, before. create everything that nature? a condition which is sufficient for itself alone, without any necessity or Compelled by want, but out of solainfinites his goodness of virtue to in the end of the day and the abundance of goodness to be shown, in time to come He was pleased to put it to me, and not to confuse him with the order of things, not you a kind of mere efficiency of beings, but a certain ineffable quality the providence of those who are thus prepared, as man is the son of the world, or the maching of this is iwVjMd gazing upon the ornament of things, which in a kind of inviolable order He would know the inexhaustible author of the mighty, by knowing he would marvel, by marveling he would long for it, he would love it for longing for it, and by loving him and pressing his sternum at last I would star The order and beauty of the world, therefore, is of a kind of divinity, that the perfect folding of all ideas, that Monad of all numbers, showing the indescribable proportion of the center of the greatness of my heart. And vtinfinits Indeed, it is the number of perfection, all things arranged in number, as the weight of all things dere, that is, the multitude and variety of scattered things into one, as it were, into a center attracted by a certain gravity, i. e. , a measure of infinite symmetry And he wished to present it adorned with harmonious proportion, as if it were perpetual, as well as with the author
the love, agreement, and harmony of created things among themselves, and the symphony of all things the most absolute bus in numbers. Since, therefore, music and harmony are nothing else than nu mere God Orga swimming pool mCRUSj measure, weight, Vtfusè has been shown in the proceedings; But Plato's world witness it become tjkVto. Nature, indeed, is the art of God, and the force of all things is adapted. three Does the world, too, a perfect likeness of God, necessarily follow to harmony? of that Archetypal? similitude analogy, myyv, that is to say that the world is harmonious the riches, and the art of God's nature, in all worldly operations to music the proportions have fallen. Indeed, let not our assertion of contemplation be vain and idle; Which only in that primeval origin of things did Organodus, the Creator of all things, play let us now show In the same way, then, that a certain craftsman is going to make an organ, he first makes several frames ctions, vilu ti first lays some rudiments of the work, then the pipes of all generisxo- he arranges channels of air and conductors for a greater variety of harmonics To demonstrate, he adapts the various canons, which are commonly called Registers; later the follies like a certain concept of the winds, whose perpetual motion the air is constricted and within the canals of the winds it is forced to be supplied, organized. Finally, Clauiarius the mother of the art arranges the director, finally with the help of the fingers, and the various registers. The combi nation did not strike the taxills or the palms, which they call them, as in the organs with wonder we feel, harmony? produces variety. D E V S Opt. Max. no in a similar way this organ of the world is inexhaustible in a certain variety of dissonance-con- h ies prod to manufacture the sound; With the word of virtue, first of all, that shapeless and needy body I give r GU chaos, velnti of the future organ created certain substructures preludes. Then the pile He sketched out the rudiments of certain forms in the formless latent latentness; Thirdly By the spirit of his divinity, incubating the formless waters, the air and the winds did not come into being He gave birth to cessaries (so to speak) by blowing. Fourthly, what shapeless material is it? spit mass imbued with his rite of various discordant sounds, in different classes as in a register What did he arrange? Fifth Clauiary of the whole organ, with a kind of velutian skill He produced his own, that is, Nature, which is divided into individual things; And at last the work was perfected I was inspired by the spirit of the supreme Archimustcus, the organist, that is, the art inciting his own, that wonderful harmony of things, which I have admitted to this and every other day branch, he produced, let us see how he produced it. Rcgifeum-. First, therefore, let the Register of this organ be called velutiproslambanome, by the word of virtue smeprziu- opened soon and rang out; behold, the Empyrean sky with an innumerable kind of bliss dmm first rum minds distributed in p rows of choirs, filled with variety, what else but If you are a certain decachord from a certain harmonic scale (whose 9th chord? are distinct Choirs of Angels, but the tenth Choir itself DE M Optimum Maximum count Apollo's cadence of the whole harmony in the denarius, the last completion of notes) did it take weight? What does the earth that was founded on the first day of the light suggest, except in a strange way? just the matter of the forms of the state: to be introduced first a sort of prelude but the lower part of this register, I do not know why, was resounding unpleasantly because of the confusion of the melos, nor had he yet acquired the perfection due to him. Register—Behold, the Register of the fruitful day unlocked together with the word of his power? Holy Spirit DiimisecQdi "atu sounded, soon the Water? from the waters? of the day ta detectedq; acr in that expanse far lateq'; exposed in a beautiful space exhibited nium; the word is the primordial nature of the elements, and their harmonious connection is new he brought out a certain harmony; But with intent harmony? perfection not even for himself it would cost Behold, the third Register was unlocked at the same time as the word of power and the inflow of the Holy Spirit you rang out in cooperation, when behold, the Earth was struck by the art of Organa? innumerable her
germinating a variety of herbs, plants, trees, seeds, flowers, fruits, whatever nothing but so many diuinaearts discussing the modules in such a diversity of natures dissonant, yet a beautiful mixture of consonances? Regi-Mstue Porrò unlocked the fourth Register, together with his power? by word spirit On what day did the blast sound: Behold the Heaven, the Sun, the Moon, the Crypt? as if coming out of a closet deun JUdagnje Consoni (A Disoni Registmmi fiue pradu the third day of the day
Book X Decachord Nature.
deantcs, finally, the firmament adorned with an innumerable multitude of stars, singuku I came with the most numerous movements, the most constant of the same laws, the most exact periods, in and flows of the most diverse qualities, huge harmonics; the duration of the arrangement under; consonant-dissonant, this is under the light and shadow of day and night, hidden from the world and perishing they displayed sarees. It is true that he is the supreme Organ, purifying the furniture of harmony if the height of the house did not vary. The fifth Kegistrum was opened by the word of his power and his spirit cooperating at the same time it sounded Water innumerable animals, reptiles, snakes of the most diverse kind the variety of those endowed with states, powers, and properties, as if from the very waters He brought out the supposed material. That all things with different consents and disagreements, I hate) I love- and these laws are followed, thenceforth very artificial, like a web of consonances and dissonances He talismaned the concert and the symphony, which I saw on this day with my eyes we hear with reason, and look with astonished ears. Finally, as the elders of their glory; for a long time tias would show the return of despair. The Sixth Register was soon unlocked and sounded, and the immense earth of animals, quadrupeds in broad genera species as classes of certain distributors he produced whence new and wonderful things from such a variety of species as if from dissonance music arose in unison, its most pleasant resonance of all still attentive to it, the ears of those listening were astonished. So here you have Registers created preludes hexameropulchrè quartantia; but just as you have organized, after sin the proludia of the guls Registers well presented, register all at once to one sale, they arrange to exhibit the consonance of all the pipes. Yes, he was an archmusician let the preludes of created things be after the fex, while the most excellent of corporeal creatures He produces man, having opened all the registers of the mundane organs, in him as if the om of things In measure and end, universal harmony prevailed. For so many ages did he preside over his soul your grace; and the body, too, with such great measure and proportion, He composed, that is, the concert divided into the individual classes of created things, in one man lest they should be seen as a summary of the greater world, and collected by the anacephalous. We saw you there the reader curiously observes the structure of the mundane organ, the arrangement of the recorder, the winds, We considered the ways and the variety of pipes, the organ inimitable in sounding pe you listened to the rite and the wonderful concert. Nothing else remains, the snow is hidden in let us examine the harmonies of each class of created things in a little more depth. And as we proceed in harmonic order, i o the order of the registers, that is, in io distin of those beings, who have nothing else for us, except by nature a certain ten-chord, as in can They relate this, following the order, in each to God and art, rather than nature to harmonics We will clearly demonstrate that the proportions and forms have been looked at. R E G I S T R V M I SIVE SYMPHONISMS The Four Elements with merit In this mundane organ the four Elements hold the lowest place about their Symphonism, but in the first place of all to be discussed is From the habitable harmony of the earth, even starting from Proslambanomeno fi, then we will proceed with the rest of the symphonies in the following order. The mass of the earth harmoniously composed, the climate harmoniously disposed, teaches exceptionally well; Every Region has a certain relation and relation to the Sun, which, like Ap- Rcgisiruliue game on the fifth day Register (Siine prologue the sixth day Some of the chickens fell, as I was one and another of the plectrums, that is, the Beating of their rays lest, at other times, he stirs up harmonies in the lower world. What are the truths at present, viz Vitruius leaves this contemplation as the greatest of natures to posterity. as long as he had thought, indeed, of the diversity of human voices, he would not have drifted from one climate to another to arrive at the constitution, he asserted in these words. And in the places where the sun moderately deepens, the vapors in these places keep the temperate bodies and every next time it bursts into flames, it rescues the temperature of the moisture by wiping it off. On the contrary cooled by vapours, which are distant from the south, the moisture is not exhausted by the heat, but from the ces io the dewy air, pouring moisture into the bodies, makes larger bodies from which the nations of the north are nourished with huge bodies, white in color bus, dir elio hair and red, eyes brown with much blood, because I was cold from the fullness of humor They are designed for refrigeration. and the fisi are nearest to the meridian axis under ie Sii que in the course of the Sun, with shorter bodies, a dark complexion, curly hair, black eyes, and crippled legs they are completed with the blood of the little Sun. And a little after; It is said that since we have that certain spirit of courage, d the lip that is in the northern region he added a line from TraieSta, which is above the meridian axis, and from it the other obliquely at the height of the highest hinge, let us observe with great doubt, in it the eff sche the bottom of the chords from the axis line in the southern borders under the place where the nations are because of the short- tate of height to the world, they make the sound of the voice thin', viti most acute, in the organ, chor give, that it is near the corner, but according to the rest, let them send it to the middle of Greece they are heard in the sound-scanning nations. Also d in the middle in the order increasing to the last seven under the height of the heaven, the spirits of the nations express themselves with sounds more serious than nature. Thus it seems that the entire conception of the world is due to the inclination, most harmoniously, by the temperature of the sun be composed for harmony. With these Vitruius Verum vt hC perceive better and more clearly tur, I brought that trigon fiue sambuca harmonica to demonstrate to a few fufiùs. Therefore Vitruius shows the differences in the sounds of the voice of different nations; you stopped now safely on the horizon, he makes a kind of scheme for the appearance of an organ, like the sambuca of the grass they call it triangular, of course, and tempered by chords; of the stars of the Harps, ' and the highest is those to whom the pivot or the northern pole of the world is mine let him rise above the horizon, to have a sharper and more subtle voice than those who the higher bus is the same pole, for these have a higher 8c lower pitch of voice. jó8 ArtU Magna Conson Disson Which we thus show according to the mind of Vitruius. Let ABC be the meridian of the circle. Mun di center E; the horizon AEC, the polar pole F, to which the standard falls to the horizon AC If FH&exF is drawn to the center of E, the line FE will form the triangle FHE. Again apolo Lib. X. Decachord Naturò,
from the pole in G cleaved another normal GLdesccndatin AC the horizon and drawn from G in E another line closes the triangle GIE; I mean those whose highs are more in F, to have the voice of those to which it is the same, the pole at the point G, let the line FH be drawn within the triangle greater GIH, and there called MH it is certain that the line Gì is greater than the line MN. If you go line Gì, no organ would make a more depressed and higher sound than the nerve MN which is at an angle with the neighbor, and also makes a shorter and sharper sound it hurts therefore each of the straight sinuses of the polar elevations is adjusted within the triangle, the wires in Sambuca refers to the harmony of people born under different climates according to the mind of Vitruius, the voices are exactly in harmony; see the figure hereafter. See the triquetra harmonica, from Proslambanomeno to Neten eleuations Denote the polar decade, the voice of different nations, the gravity of the I saw how ingenious this comment of Vitruus's opinion was a little high
that is indeed a great thing to obtain an agreement with things, for I would still remain for the most part it is not possible, as experience teaches us, to be acute in one and the same climate, grain, and tempe rpperin rata voices, even under the xquinoctial, under which Vitruius Neten put the voice, that is the greatest point of harmonic voices] to have the greatest voices, as in New Spain, otherwise, Zon$ scorched? subject parties, ex perseveration ought to be, but under the cold zone against men generally: to have the sharpest voices, as in Lapps, Iceland, Scrikfinnifq; it appears Although the dict$ parts are cold Although they have moisture, as Vitruius well notes, there is still cold associated with it I don't know what, imbued with a burning force, by which the bodies are not only stiffened, but they are completely dried up, which drying up the sharp voice necessarily follows. Zone but scorching with the greatest heat, the greatest humidity due to frequent rains and floods. and the greatest lakes, and the vicinity of the ocean, it is certain that it is only abestvocesvt acutes, vt pot: us against obtusesque grauefque. This is a true mistake Vitruius (as he who had no knowledge of the said Zones in his time) easily He is to be pardoned, and on this account even to be most praised, for the sharpness and seriousness of his words cause, he has rightly contributed to dryness and heat, cold and humidity; Therefore, as here let us establish the harmony of the terrestrial world in a different way. I say, first, that all places are filled with three degrees of humidity and moderate cold, and you give voices, indeed, with dryness and strong heat, high and sharp voices, from every amen they have a voice like the Castilians; for no other reason than that Lusitania Castle the mountainous region is more humid; hence the sulphure of earth and dry, for the voices of Sicily and Calabria it produces much sharper plants than the humid Roman field, not that it is more southerly they are, but because of the dry and hot condition of the sun. So set up different horizons and this property alone is the cause of the diversity of words, if they are of the elementary qua it is to be taken by the litigants. The truth about the combination of these qualities in the voice of ge- Cause diuer Although it has been said very quickly in the first book, we leave the reader with it; This is done by combi-àerLs nations8 voices, different voices, we could rescue the inhabitants of the land; they correspond perfectly to the steps of the Vniusdiapafon. First, those who are born At the same time, they are different and most fragile, those who are at the lakes and stagnant within the barriers of the mountains they come to the marshes, and live, and acquire a thick and deep voice, such as in the eight the string is hypate, the cold is very little two who are born and brought up in the coldest and driest places, I squeal the deepest The eunuchs have a voice similar to that of the octachord Nete; Who, however, is temperate if they are born in these places, from hot and dry, wet and cold, a perfectly tempered voice they acquire it, corresponding to the eighth month. Those, however, in places more prone to heat, the city is born to those who approach it, retaining all the degrees of cold and humidity, vo cem equi unt Parhypatx Hy pomes? answering thus they acquire a voice ranetee Paranet answering, which to retain cold moisture, yet some- Aaa And Artis Magne Conson Dijson it is dior, hypate Italian, and consequently the whole octave
tuning fork system The same is to be understood in the rest. Yes, this system is for the reasons mentioned that it undergoes a change according to the different seasons of the year; when it is summer For, as Vitruius rightly observes, the very instruments of this kind are marked by various means for you take two earthen cups, one of which is less cooked than the other, and consequently more it has humidity, they also allow a considerable variety in sounding, which in the string and the sinews force the experience of nessetati. Why, indeed, in artificial sounds we experience the complete opposite, with the greatest surprise for here the organs of Rome and the cymbals of Naples are worthy to be known in full tone; In Florence, instruments were arranged a semitone deeper than those of Rome; Venice
The whole Neapolitan ditone was to be more thoroughly dressed, the cause of which, however, I approached in places We reject our neighbors not so much in the nature of the places, as in the age-old custom; for this task may depend on the genius of men, whose other modules taxes; Graiuorlbus are affected by others, because it is clear that in the ancient peoples of Greece, Loli- But to Doris and Iones, who were sure of their manners and genius, and thus of the quality of Music They distrusted Dores, the heavy one, the Lydians cheerful and sharp, the Phrygians milder the method of singing, as has been made clear in the preceding lessons. So I saw the harm Now also we must see what the different disposition of the earth leads to things. Let the elements conspire together to obtain a symphony. SYMPHONISMS IV. of the elements. They explain the harmony of the elements in various ways. The alchemist took this example they report they draw out the spirit and the wine, then the oil which is infused into the spirit then, thirdly, phlegm, after which phlegm remains, which they call the dead head. These are enclosed in hermetically sealed glass in continuous regions they threaten The lower part of which is black earth, the other watery, that is to say, an extracted substance. water; truly subtle witty! m air; finally, oily, inflammable, fire, which In short, he floats above all those who have no essence, from all impurity three times removed far away from the feces of the kidney infection, you will refer to heaven, which indeed is a harmonic quadâ the analogies of the seinuicus by which they go beyond the degrees of entity which are competent to each individual, viz. gra so they express the harmonics closely; added to this model of the world of art and nature, They want it to be created, so it will be shown later. Others compare the whole world to a harmonic monochord, to which the spirit of the world goes soul, better iple God, placed outside the monochord, eat all the consonances, vo He makes sharper points in creatures which are nearer to him, and which are more important to him more remote, that is, the loudest voice, more to the silence and darkness, and the horror of matter, etc yielding, because of the excessive density of the air, and the obstinacy of the spirit, he is obliged to return to the earth, vo They say that the string is the material of the world, but the instrument is the mega-cosine monochord when, in which the harmonic degrees of the perfectly harmonic scale refer to dilposirlon. Anger Of the waves on the earth, Robert places the coldness, the stiffness, and the weight, which they have to do with each other the cold and matter of the lowest region stretched up to the moon, vt to which is for portion Lik X. Decachord Nature;
one-sixth part) because in this region there is a quarter of as much light as the color of light; and let it be done from water) air fire diatessaron i earth having fe, vt in monochordo s, vnitas in arith a metric, a point in geometry. Quhad proportions are better explained double he imagines a pyramid, bright or formal and dark or material, thus cem inertness, for the light has its base in the Empyrean sky, but its apex in reach the ground Darkness, however, has its base on earth, and its summit in Empyrean, so much so that the Sun intersects each other around the sun's frame, I wonder when the light and the darkness fade let it constitute a mixture, a quality, by a continuous harmonic progression, this in agreement, vt from earth to water one tone, from water to air another, from air to fire, (and nothing else but the greatest air is a certain mildness) half a place, indeed, from the fire to the Sun three other tones, from the Moon to, and from here to, and finally from here to the Sun fcmidi- set up a tone, and thus at last the interval between the earth and the sun was tones and fe- consisting of mittens, namely, in the sphere of tequaiity, not otherwise than from a cord divided into two parts, A diapason is formed from a diatessaron and a diapente. But from the Sun to the Empyrean. He invents another spiritual tuning fork, and then the whole world from the double tuning fork he composes the material and the formal, subordinate to himself in turn, as the most perfect Musicalissca system refers, or pentedecachordon, that with the hand of God struck r, vtriusq; m udi the wonderful concerts which he stirs up, the figure of which is placed in the last Registro.
The ancients, when the elementary world was constituted out of a kind of harmony and discord, looked at, and detected a surprising temperature of different qualities, They compared the elements of the tetrachord. For Orpheus, as a witness to Brienne, is an example of these He constructed a tetrachord lyre, and all its sounds were arranged according to the degrees of the diatessaron he protects, the first string of which hypatically touches the ground; the second parhypate water; prepare the third air; the fourth net would refer to the fire, as is clear in the diagram. nothing
Thus, indeed, the first and gravest earth, but the fourth and sharpest, fruitful of fire, and the third would be analogous to air. Just as in the elements there are two weights and two light, and one higher or softer than the other, so in the so-called tetrachord, there are two tones two sharp, and the other one larger or sharper. Again, the four elements are different and changed in different ways, varying in thickness and temperature, and varying in affection, vn- from the disputing species of things emerge, acquire, itain the so-called tetrachord of sound in a different way otherwise changed and compared to each other, they produce various differences in sounds. Further intcrualla is known to be secure in the four Elements, from which the changes affect nor are they born of physical forms. So in the tetrachord of tones vari con they arise in the form of sonorities, because it is clear in the four-part time of the year, in which this the elemental chord of Apollo struck with the plectrum of him in concert symphonism the prostate, which every year in the generation of things and other effects the production we experience with wonder. This, indeed, is a tetrachord out of itself, discordant and harmful but as soon as those radiant fingers of Apollo had struck it, rintque, soon he will present a kind of admirable concert of discordant consonance so associated tem, that is, things that are totally disparate, on the contrary, yet in one strange combination concord and friendship run together. Pythagoras continued with this harmonic secret it will be examined a little more deeply, the nature of it at last mirasanesolemain regular bodies abscó it is found in disse; For the earth is harmony in a harmonious cube. for the cube has flat faces; to Diapaion-Diapente A aa Fr go to Diapason to Diapente to Diatessaron to Difdiapason Mira copa- g solid angles; planes, twelve lines, in which nad make a diapafon to proporcio-d diapente; to diatestaron; to diapaphon; to diapason with diapente; om- ces music, or a series of consonances in one body: nor should this seem surprising to anyone. Naminrerraveluti foundation basis proslambanomeomnium rerum genera- rum female harmonica, as it will later be said, they are hidden, and all the chords are standing in a poly chord they acquire a certain relation to the first, and to the earth the rest
Moreover, he found fire in the pyramid, for it consists of four sides and four corners of the sun. push but in plain angles, whence is born a kind of simpler nature than in fire we are For to establishes the vnisone and to the diapason with the diapente, which is the point but the subtlety of this consonant is understood. In the octahedron, indeed, you find the harmony of the air nit, it consists of solid angles, and the same number of sides, plane angles; Finally, in The icosahedron has sides, solid angles, and planes. came, as will be said in what follows. And the proportions of these bodies are harmoniously thus they are gathered one after the other; The ratio of the octahedron to the pyramid is twice that of the sides; in in solid angles, one-sixth and one-sixth, but in planes two, whence emerge double consonances that is, the diapason and the diapente. The ratio of the side of the pyramid to the cube a half-bus, double in the corners, once again constitute a diapason and a diapente. Cubed The icosahedron has a ratio in the sides three times in the bases six thirds, in the corner lis sesquialtera, whence diapason, diapente, they detested on the bases in the corners, but the dia emerges with regret. You see, then, that the nearer they come to the earth, the greater the in-
harmony is born to bodies appropriated to them, so you see the cube and the icosahedron which are three the ram and the water represent the woman and the sea, and the harmonious seeds of the tumult, the bed Nymphs, most suitable for the generations of things, whence the inscription of the Icosahedron in the Cube, it refers to the water and the earth in order to the generations of the most fruitful marriage. We show the harmony of the elements according to a certain analogy of proportions-, in these luminaries, now it also remains to be clarified, that sensible element fym- the phonism, in which they really and truly resonate with each other, is driven by the various elements I will try to give birth to a kind of sensible harmony for the condition of colliding bodies then it is For what else does the earth convey to us, except through a certain organ of hidden canals? furnished as it were with certain pipes, through the constrictions of which that fiery spirit The body of the planet was torn apart, while it rushed with a rush, the same as the wind in our organs with artificial sounds, that is to say, high-pitched tones mixed for the laxity or fineness of the passages, What kind of music does he produce, admiring those terrible movements of Calabria? exortisxmi these he first became acquainted with, while from the enclosed spirits shaking the sides of the mountains, given the vehemence of the door slamming, sometimes like a trumpet sound, sometimes like a real thing the murmur of the sounding waters, sometimes as violent as thunder, at other times as if we heard the cries of people crying in the wind that whistled. Catadupa? because of the waters in the bowels of the mountains, is the cause of that prodigious concert, which we see above It has been said, that certain holes in the mountains are perceived by history; We will assign rum accounts in our underground world. Moreover, the perpetual stirrings of earth and water establish another kind of harmony, while for they continually attack the coasts, for the quantity of caves and canals here They set up a monument, which historically they tell us that the various shores of the seas present. So Maris The shores of the Aegean, as Pausanias testifies, the sound of Cyrhar. Banks of certain islands, organs a symphony of pipes of all kinds; On the shores of the Bothnian sea, you crowd of men they report to Olaos. For we have shown elsewhere also the vaults and caves on the coast Consonances of every kind are founded; For if they had the capacity of faith, vt to they will necessarily be struck by the winds and waves of the waters like a harp shepherd Sivt to diapente; if vt to diatessaron; if vt to tone ris: It should not be surprising, therefore, that the hidden seeds of harmony can be found in the faith of the continents murmur and noise, be grateful. Artu Magna Conson Vison Por- Lib. X. Dtcdchordon Nature;
Moreover, the air now changed the earth with water as varied as the harmony of sounds. gives rise to the differences of the children) while for mountains, rocks, caves, alleys, it is mixed with violent agitation by the waves and waves of water, as if from consonants and dis the sound, from the high and sharp voices, makes a once wonderful concert. That will be clear At first he went into the mountains, through the many-sized passages, where the wind was strange and strange presents a variety of sounds. From here in. Lthna to some rocky rocks breathing Euronotho, a perpetual harmoniofusq, " a whisper is perceived, not otherwise as if a chorus he would hear the extended fifths of thirds and eighths at intervals. obser me the same I remember the sound of trees of various sizes being shaken by the wind. For if a tree the second one was twice as visible in Cypreffs and Populis, expressing whispers with a diapause if vnaad alteramsquialtera, diapente; &fic of the rest. In proportion to the waves, the same thing usually happens to the sea, indeed, in the paper windows, the wind is sure to breathe only ae please stir up the perpetual music with this agreement.
In a kind of paper a window should be formed as many circles, in that proportion as the dia The meters of the pipes of a certain organ are opposite to each other. namely vt to to to to to to and so on for the rest. After completing the circle drawn on the paper tiliffimè are cut off, but with this precaution they stick somewhere and are like la-
with a kind of bra or plectrums of the wind, forming a voice by the collision of the wind, and it will be ready chin ready For when the wind strikes the said window, it will soon pass inside the circle the fissure excited, will once again make a trembling sound, and when all the circles are in harmony when they were portrayed, they all added a harmonious sound to the great amazement of the audience they will eat their turn. Here, too, is the organ of strings driven by the wind, which is in order We have described the teeth, it is relevant. Inàlijs quoque of the quantity of the air feruorc hair stirred by the fire, it arouses a certain unusual and harmonious noise. Countless this In place of this elementary symphony I could add portents, if not the whole By this work I had demonstrated that if our ears had been established in that place it would have been like the wind I mean, the roaring of Iittora could distinctly be heard from across the ocean and across the world he would not perceive it except as an absolute symphony with all numbers, vt or from here to Crea let us be encouraged to sing the praises of God with indcfessolabour, when even the elements themselves your hymns to the Almighty God, his maker, like a fourfold mustache, tenor, high, can and let us look upon the voices to be resolved, to be in harmony with one another's inspiration. REGISTER II. Symphony of the Heavens I will attack the difficult emsane, while that Musician of the heavenly bodies con I am trying to track down a hundred; the task of many has been attempted, and so has no one heretofore; correctly performed, you have become deaf to all the symphonies of such an insolent harmony. Surely the Musician will kill this world by artifice composed of the ideas of Arcberyp sario suggest For since DEVS is the harmonious Archetypon of things, and the sin of things the species of gluttony in this university's book, in metrical order, like some poems about if he wanted to write, he seems to have reached this with the first, because he owes this to a worldly organ, the most gruesome, and that is, the fountain arranged in a conformable order, called my car I am very polite? he would present to the ears of mortals. It is stipulated by our sayings ma the light of Augustine, in these words. As the most beautiful of the Ordinemphoculuri a poem from some of the contrasts of which he has honed DE VS. And soon: the contrary is contrary to them on the contrary, they restore the beauty of speech, thus a kind of eloquence, not of words, but of things the beauty of opposites is composed of opposites. This song is a certain world and the epigram says, in which there are as many voices and things, as many opposites, as many conflicts of things, as many co- the trajectories are viewed next to it: Jrtis Magna Consoni ss Dijfjoni
ct; u g Body-mvno not They fought the cold, the hot, Hard and soft: Sun t therefore the poems of things in this world the most elegant omnigene contrary the variety and discord of the divine workmen arranged by the genius of the workman, and by his numbers The lyre, imitated, renders the most harmonious and sweet music to the eyes, as music to the ears. Another variety of words, and a well-balanced discord of sounds, renders the concert. Quintiles music! book i cdp. said Pythagoras, and I was a follower of all this opinion, The world is music that it was composed by reason, and that the lyre was then imitated. But what is the matter? Rum Music, 'which' contrasts of things, which order, which song, which: The wisdom which the eyes have not hitherto seen, let them perceive with the ears of the wisest Seneca, described in these words. . "Suppose, " said he, "Martia, when I was born, I came to advise you. " You are going to enter Vrbem Diss ho. I have put together a common pulchritudgeon, each one bound by complex, certain, and eternal laws. You will see there innumerable chairs, you will be surprised that everything is filled with one star, the sun with its daily course, the knots of the day; hmx à Se- spatia fignantant: year, summer, winter equally divided. . You will see nodurna Lun& in the same way, looming over the entire edge of the earth, subject to change by additions and losses, problem You will marvel at the cloudy camellias and the falling waters, and the slanting flowers, and the ccelifragator. When you are satiated and cast down the eyes of the superiors on the ground, another form of things will receive you, another
thrice that wonderful From here the plains of the plains shot into the open plains: from here the mountains ma fire, and with the wonderful fur of the ranks of the nations inherit the summits on high: give food to the rivers, and from nothing, all diffused from the source to the East and the West. and the trees swaying with their highest tops, the hounds with their animals, and the birds in dissonant concert. Varis. V. rbiutnstus, &se close the nations with local difficulty And soon: Why do you shine stones and gems? lin gold flowing through the sands of three rapid torrents, And in the middle of the earth, and in the middle again ri shiny signs
: These are similar to what D. Augustus He wrote on true religion, ch. ig. Not srusra, Harmony diapaphonic completed so is the world divided by the elements corresponding: so great a force of seeds, the species and numbers of those that produce: &om nia insougenere mode proper nature queseruanti Again Tertullus. book i bring susMammon before the middle, ponders that the order of Vniuersi is so beautiful, so ap- considering honor, decorum, works, faith, the law of the elements, rint at the beginning, and without realizing the world, to say— A very beautiful song of the order of the fiecus, from some of them as if antithe D. Augustine thought that God had honored you, not by a thing, but by the eloquence of his words a composite beauty And let us not depreciate anything from the sacred treasures, of course Vates more royally composed this most orderly Music of Vniuersi, and the most elegant of things He himself described the elegantsirais in poems, the Catii narrate, Vfquead hc words: In om nor the land of their exodus; This is, that their music was composed according to the rule it can be fixed. Which, as it is more certain, we will obscure, if it pleases us, what from the workshop Py Thagorica Censorinus, Pliny, and Eiatosthepe had drawn Georgius Venetus in pro He referred to the problems that from the earth to the world of signs there is a harmony of diapason, perfect A tone from the earth to the moon: from the moon to Mercury, a semitonium From Mercury to Venus the same amount, from Venus to the Sun, a tone and a half, Do you see the divine music of this worldly temple? The whole nature? harmony? Never- go the most beautiful poem and epigram, does Augustine rightly call the world? Who will deny that the whole stream of poetry is devoted to imitating nature? Porrà Lib. X. Dee and Bordan nature.
Further Pythagoras, Plato, Tullius, Plinius, Macrobius, Proculus, Chakidius, the number of other healed Fathers was astonished by this wonderful arrangement of things and they believed to eat the sweetest sound. I took us to sleep. Scip. perceiving in my ear the sweetest song of the heavens, and in my heart richly s thus a it: Who is it that fills my ears, so great and so sweet a sound at intervals they were imparbussed, however, for the rataportion of the dittinttis, the impulse and the movement of the ipsoru an orb is made, and controlling the sharps with the scales, he makes various aqua-like concerts. And in harder How much we have caused that starry course of the sky, whose conversion is more acutely excited to be stirred up Haec Tullius: Qux Macrobiuslib. r. on the back of Scipio Therefore he said: From the very circumambulation of the sound of the orbiums there was no birth;
and thus, he sends forth the force of the slayer, by the very nature of his coercion, so that he ceases to a violent collision. And statins. Of these the impregnable reason is the hill of Bum, from Musicossonos to proceed with the conversion of the celestial spheres: because it is necessary to produce sound from motion, reason in which the divine is, sitsono the cause of the melody. This Pythagoras was the first of all the people of Greece of men, he conceived and understood in his mind, that the combination of something should be thrown out to sound, for the sake of not cefi the state of reason, which does not go back to the next day. This he That from i j the same Philosopher ch. seq. proves explains And chapter fic begins. Hence Plato in his Republic, when de to deal with the volubility of the celestial spheres; give Signifying the motion of the spheres to be presented to the gods: NamSyren, DEOca-Vnicu-
nens, understood by Gracchus, is valid. And soon: That is why even the theologians affirming that the sky should sing, so, the doves they employed us musicians, This is there, and other things I pass over for the sake of brevity. And what every coelorumvnaSyren is in, reported George Venetus tom. problem. singer sect. no. from Plat. deKepub. Proculo in Cratylus, &in Repub. ChalcidioinTi- mxo Here he refers to the Hemistichius of Angelus Pole. To each his own innocent Syren. Pliny book chapter the same as follows: Is indeed a sweet and incredibly gentle concert, to us who Plinius ad do we act within, does the world slide silently by our days? Coelius Rhodig. the same book chapter thus he says: Wherefore doth he paBofiat vt the wheels of so many orbs do I vertigo in silence and silence is the environment raked, even if the pleasure of the mirandasons passes to those who hear less? This one Plato affirmed: all those who followed this approved: and Boethius did not disapprove. Philo of the Jews, the most eloquent book the music of this dream is worthy of being marked with words. he describes more: Heaven renders a perpetual harmony of harmonious motions: which US. eat the same rium stimulated by the things which are necessary for life, we should forget, not having been satisfied with food and drink I let down my throat, but as a candidate for immortality, the divine music ends the can these, such as Moses heard when he was taken out of his body, are carried on forty days, and the same number of days You shall neither eat bread nor taste water. And what follows divinely: And so the sky inttr ume- and the archetype of Music, it seems to me that it was not elaborated for any other reason, what is the meaning of the Parent hymns were sung and decanted musically. Here Philo. D. Ambr. it is sung in the preface through the psalms thus saying: The angels praise the Lord, the mighty schools sing to him. He himself also aXem coelifert expressorsermo, with a kind of perpetual concert gentleness, yt its sound could be heard in the farthest parts of the world, they are of a secret nature: nor that from vsunatura, yidetur alien. Hxc Ambr. Anitius also Scuerinus Boethius, on the music of Boethius Pythagoras Plato ue to the course of the movement. Idorus lib. book ch. Thus he says: Who can be made so swift as the machine of heaven, silently sikntiq. be moved, even though that sound did not reach other ears. D. lsi Etym. chap. Thus he says: The world itself is said to be arranged in a certain harmony of sounds, and I called the sky itself under the harmonic modulation. But a certain Licentius, whom Si- xtus, lib. Bibl oth. annot. speaking of GOD, he sang this very elegantly, saying He adapted the numbers to the heavens: and made them sound Exercising the musts, drive the choir. Fr. D. lsidor. More permitted the poet Christ stianus A hell. becomes E). Do you know? Why not au let's say so we cosloru This world it is a temple God, I thought about it buie musicians mftruinemis do not miss Palam. They will be wise. Anfelmus libVi. de the image of the world, thus he says: The seven heavens are orb with the sweetest of them nuns are wanted, the most agreeable concerts are made in their circuit. Which sound I thought to au the thing did not come to pass yesterday, because the glass was broken, and its greatness narrowed our hearing exceeds This is Anfelmus. And what reason? to bring this melody of the heavens to move them, that is, This world was called by the ancients the tempi of God, that is, according to Tullius in lomn. Scip.
If, then, this world is the temple of God, let it not befit the temples and churches of God therefore be without organs and singers, therefore in this temple of the universe, of the heavens whether the harmony of the organs and of the singers was a sign of God, they willed of the ancients, that it is thus true to tell the heavens the glory of God, and to have universal of the voice, that is, the voice, and the most powerful sound: as they have in the Scriptures. Artis Magn& Consmi DiJJam r.
On marveling at the relative proportions of worldly bodies Ix from Hipparchus and to this, our last times in the matter of the Astronomers Pertus was the one who found the true proportion of worldly bodies both in mo le, then at a distance of the same from the other all in the same to be determined by those who disagree
There is no other river than the diversity of the solar medium, of the eyes, irismmentorumq; deception, vti diametroru apparé- the unjust determination of these in the heavenly spheres, nor We seem to have no hope left for this mute secret to reach, yet to be admirable in a certain way a portion of these filthy bodies, and all these Monica, it is as certain as it is certain, DEVM The wisest Architect, all things in number, pon dere, measure to have procreated; for the existing reason or very strong, it cannot be said that the effects are disordered, yet they assign this in various ways. For the ancients a perfect harmony from the harmony of the heavenly bodies They believed that it had arisen from an arranged collision, the last of these it explodes sporadically at times; when neither is the solidity of the heavens nor does the arrangement of the ordosphares according to the ancients subsist. Pholomeus insua Harmony in the mode of double music He arranges the orders of the priests, this time, first vt j) hypaten idcB the lowest string, Saturn, that is, the uppermost, reli by which the intermediate chords would refer; secondly contrariaserie, vt f) hypaten, Z would refer to neten. But this pr$ter friuolasquasdam reasonings, very impro from previous congruences, I conclude nothing certain and solid they give therefore by no means under these harmony of heaven co- can be starry This emptiness is filled with what which he considered, he had architected a high harmony it is, but so obscure, and shrouded in mystical words complicated, that is, what he feels is difficult to understand, na while nothing tries to show it, arguing with himself, and his mind being taken away from the text, at last she in regular bodies, the secret harmonic Book X Decachordmt Nature.
He boasts that he has discovered it. For the angle of the cube applied to the innermost circle of Saturn, says Cetra planes to touch the middle circle of Jois (for it supposes that each Planet the heavens are fixed, I stand in the center, in the middle, and in the perigee, and the sun is immovable, and the earth is mobile tuit. ) But the tetrahedrons standing at the corners of the inner circle of Louis, the centers of the planes to touch almost the outermost circle of Mars. Thus the angles of the octahedron are from wherever the centers of the planes of the octahedrons indeed descend below H mum circle, however, does not seem to reach the middle. Finally, the dodecahedron and the icophaedric orbs, in proportion to each other's waters, are the closest of all to the r-Regubria proportions or internals between of the earth, and between the circles of the earth and Venus, which in the same way are equal to each other, if they contain from the inner part the middle of the Earth, but from this to God, let us calculate the mean but look at the matter in the preceding figure; But hte are speculation even Kepler Indeed, how from these Philosophers and Mathematicians of the heavens I do not see that harmony can be demonstrated, since in this he prefers the heavens to his bodies He drew violently distorted solids, which he may be said to have applied to the bodies of the heavens. What if a certain and determinate quantity of the distances of mundane bodies would have been discovered, otherwise There is no doubt that the proportions of the heavenly bodies are analogous to the regularities. it could be concluded that the truth was with all the Astronomers in the times of the Ptolemies and in Htinc they labor a day to be assigned to it, and they differ almost to infinity; certainly from these evils The nature of the heavens cannot be demonstrated at all, nor from the periodic movements of the planet! one the same can be concluded, because I have thus shown. The periodic motions of the planets are side by side Keplemm, vt appears in the following table.
Day Scruple min. do thrice
In these periodic times there are no harmonic proportions, which is easily apparent ret, if the greater periods are continually bisected, the lesser periods are continually doubled; the number of days according to the measure, what is the dividing line? sura for the sixteenth part, a little more than Joui for the eighth part less than Earth less than for twice the fourth four times more, and these numbers with do not form any harmonious proportion; nor from Aphelio
Keplerus thinks that the harmony between heaven and heaven it can be concluded For the daily movement of aphelion min. fec. Etperielius min. it is not the third major, but if the first had min. then min. at min. I did it. they would have the same ratio as to where? it is a proportion of the dito nor the third major, nor the diurnal movement of Aphelion min. dishes to perielium min. o fec. has a proportion of min. to fec. half-tone, as Kepler thinks, but ad fec are required to establish it. nor between Aphelion à6 min. 14fec. Z- eius min. with him. the proportion is established in diapente, but falls short of it do Porropenelius Telluris min. diurnal movement aphelion min. do a a semitone falls short of fec. And so with the rest of the diurnal motions in the Aphelions you will find no perfect harmony in the proportions. If, however, we have permission to do so let me apply the Keplerian motion a little before to the harmonic proportions I have been, what is the harmony of the movements? follows Bbb MO- Artit Conson tz) Disiam MOTVS DIVB. Nl Min. Sec. Aphelus i
Semitone Dieses "Diapason with minor fi em a harmonic second natural scale. WT
A soft scaU system.
CZl CZ) But this can by no means satisfy a prudent astronomer, since it is not consistent with us Whether the proportion of motions is thus from the nature of things, --the diversity of which is today-- tions, Diameter So you will appear what a problem. . tions, show the exact opposite, and consequently nothing certain and solid from these arks the harmony of the heavens can be concluded, because there is no such logical mo- harmony can be conceived at rare intervals. But to play in proportion only, to none It is ingenious that there are scarcely of things subject to numbers, unless he compares some of the music they have denominations. Where? Nara is therefore properly the music of heaven, in what it consists of remains to be said later. Abenragel Arabs in a book which he calls Hesban elladonia, that is, the calculation of the world, he says small bodies are in proportion to themselves, as roots are to squares and cubes they have, as Kepler hints in the Cosmographic Mystery. Reità explains this vitianofusè in his eye Enoch Eli? liquesinuent, the harmony of the fall most suitable, if each one agreed with himself sio Let us produce his true comment. He says that he is thus in proportion to the earth ris ad Solem vt io ad iooidestad ira vt radixjTelluris i o to the mass of the Sun square, but at a distance of iooo cubic Prxterea with respect to the solar diameter radius) fuse orbit; in iooo exparte s diuisi as well, he shows that he has vt yi to so run the apparent diameter of the Sun at a moderate distance from the earth according to the observations made 34min. 4i time will be a straight bay arc of vision min. 41 sec. subtending necessarily from a table of pockets. nay, necessarily but the visual diameter, if indeed it is rightly accepted, is at the distance of the earth, vt fy at positing the center of the Sun's orbit to coincide with the center of the Earth. He then supposes that the diameter of the subject is the square root of particles, and so on querent this root next to the tables of pockets min. hold for sec. Where does it come from? the distance of the Sun from the Earth being solar diameters, it is certain that the same distance is a thousand terrestrial diameter But to the truth of this speculation there is nothing else would be required, unless the determination of the diameter of the earth was made from a globe solar or lunar;
in the solar globe, or even could be Innar by such a hypothesis. mechanically detected by the cosmic triangle, whose legs BA, CA, At the incenter of the sun, A would meet, and the base BC would include the diameter of the earth ret. For in this triangle let BC be known as the diameter of the earth, the leg of which that from the supposition, perhaps from the radius A semidiameter orbit? of the sun assuming solar diameters, they will be known; with the outer diameter so The diameter of the disc is known from the supposition that the parts of the disc are known earth? easily applied to the diameter of the sun whenever it was contained in this, as he would sign, and so in the notice of the fane of the proportion of each diameter di standing? we could arrive. But if emanate from thence, vt Reità wants, I would say that it is truly admirable in harmony? found the proportion of the world to be, and in the same way to have their bodies opposite and at a distance from the earth. B they beat, made by the weight of the strings extended by the harmonic intervals
to weights; I very much doubt the truth that Reità ad assumed for the discretion of the dictated diameters Proportj ò the amount of apparent rums, he chose such a beautiful and attractive proportion po- Sun, Mon$, more than the actual thing itself. Is such a ratio according to the said distance? The moon? k-jerresi to the earth in its diameters, such as the sun itself is to the earth in its diameters; where aTdistâtktT min. with him. Does the earth necessarily conclude? in diameter exactly about beri min. sec. On the other hand, hardly min. sec. whence the earth's mass exceeds that of the moon following times, care should be taken that the intrice is to For the cube of is from on the other hand, is contained here in that times. When, then, the Sun and the Moon are in their own parts of the rays? let the orbit be divided into squares of their distances from the earth, and from the moon to the moon, let it be vt to will be Sun Moon times greater, because from the cubication of the terms of the proportion; from this proportion, a faithful femper is supposed to be struck down, another mysterious thing is revealed; that is, the semidiameter min. sec. times which in the table pocket from
B b b parts Lib. X. Jecachordon jyp their Sio Art Magnce Conson Distorti This number must be doubled in proportion to the parts of the whole divided into ioooo parts 'cedestnjm. the number of days of the annual revolution of the Sun; So you see the solar diameter is of particles whose radius is being their average distance from the earth the root of the square is the root of the cubic half of parts of the same radius three times the Moon's sphere is considered to contain as many minutes as its Sun. However, strange Another thing here is to be seen, that the mean distance of the moon from the earth is as many as the earth's diameters Corinete, how many days the moon completes its period around the earth in the monthly space, that is to say about days, and as many days as the Earth to the Moon in the diameter of the moon; the annual movement of the Sun in the parts of the radii of the world in diuifi, ii- h X j. From these it is deduced again, that all the planets are of their periodical revolutions radicesquadratasv. g. cùmSaturnusrevoluatur days210747 Jupiter indeed will be the root of this wonder; of that one, however, is shown as such that there is a proportion between of the rest of the Planets, as is evident in the following table; Corollary. of them
This table is completed, if the planets periodic motion in years cas in diesi The root for the square of the days will give the proportions proposed in the table, as but the Reità in one semi-diameter of the earth should give hourly Leucas, the tongue of the Planetary the semidiameter will consist of as many Leucs as are contained in the following table.
a bee pointing out the half-diameters of the planets in Leuci horartjs, and the time in which the group imagines each other's position in days Leucas made anyone Contains fe- half a diameter
And Lib. X. Nature of the Decachord. At the same time, everything is necceflariòseuutur, fivt dixifidelioobseraméto ni so much, indeed, that they are not content with these things, but more profoundly in the assumed proportion of the asturgùtquidâ, du not only the solar, but also the distance of Saturn, of the fixed stars, and indeed of the Empyreus He trusts that he will be rescued later with help. For the proportion founded and propagated in the nature of things reliquorumsymmetriâaflìgnarineceireéftjfîenimiooodiadiu orbit of the Sun in io duxe- ris, prodibitvltimfphiEre Saturninaeàterrafemidiameterpartium vtienirru, The diameter of the Earth is a thousand times contained in the radius of the solar orbit, so the diameter of the Sun is a thousand times it is included in the radius of the orb of Saturn, and is at the distance of Solsicuti's diameters to the distance of the wrath of ProPor From the square root of the planet, so the square root is at the distance of Saturn in the diameters of the earth. restribusjHaudabstmili reason says that the diameter of Saturn is the root of the quadratomela- bimdo. in solar meters, to the semidiameter of the firmament en tfiita vt the semidiameter of the firmament diame square meters, and square meters of earth; par pastti-in The diameter of the earth's firmament is the square root of the semidiameter in the diameters of Saturn of the three heavens of the Empyreus, thus vt diameters of the region lysternates vagi Pla the distance between the nets becomes totally inconceivable i so vt st anyone each day only fpaciumin Empyreus should be measured, how much is the circumference of the earth i renerà such. Em- He will not cross the circle of the sky in ten thousand million years. You have here, therefore, the proportion of worldly bodies from Conjecture Reit; Qu$st natutoongrueret, I would certainly say that VM Architects is the wisest architect in the whole world and the distribution of bodies in it according to the degrees of the algebraic powers of the order naste The truth that we have drawn from these works in the Art of Light and Shadow, that the Reader we let go
î. rii What is that music of the most famous bodies? jll) rt un mn fi A certain harmonious concert of the heavenly bodies, and indeed a cry to him and to the infinite gentleness of Harmostx, the most worthy, both of the sacred letters, and It was received by the unanimous consent of all theologians and philosophers, in numbers yet scarcely explainable, as that indescribable concert of the heavenly bodies, eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor entered into the heart of man, because it is so to his chosen ones from that stern and supramundane Organ, sweetness in the eternal vine reserved; However, as much as our human nature is weakened by the cloudiness of the mind our perception can grasp, I would say to the prophet, this harmony of the heavens is not on foot with regular numbers of motions, not in that sensible collision of the heavenly bodies, but in with no other, I am in a surprising disposition of the same, in a certain indescribable proportion to consist in conspiring with the worldly bodies they guarantee that if anything is removed or changed, the harmony of the whole will be destroyed. So the sun in the wound Some of the Choragus, who had already submitted to him the government of the Planetary Economy the rousing pleats of his rays stirs all into harmony. How bad indeed nia vti we have said constist, when in a certain admirable disposition, &proportionatiffi- but the gap between one worldly body and another; and in quantity and each of them appropriated the most exact analogy to obtain his bosom. So Sun Harmony ad) i the earth, h$c to the Sun and the Moon have that distance, and that size necessity, as it would be necessary for that end to destroy the world. For these worldly intervals They can help each other and cooperate with each other. That is to be understood as To be noted with fiery bodies, (of which we say the Sun is, and indeed of the whole na ture: fire) be thus compared, vit. they produce different and different temperaments Which not only nature, but also Empyricaars ma
He teaches us very well. First of all, the rays of the sun shine brightly in a different way those under the cold zone teach another effect; another under temperate, under Torrid deny Magna Conson Disson finally, they present another ccnsstutionTvtìfusèiri Our art-Anacamptica demftn- strauimusy&if the wonderful variety of different effects is so harmonious vt- The end of the land would lead to constant discord in matters. The distance of the Earth from the Sun, and such a distance of the body, is such a disposition of the earth? There is no other such temperament, such a harmonic variety, no other ture of things came forth. Again this distance concerns such a magnitude of the earth, of light and shadow in om-: let it be a moment in these places the portion is equal, as shown in many ways in the cited Anacamptic Art. we say, it makes that if the distance is greater, or smaller, the whole harmony is already in dissonance then it would be reduced to a kind of confusion. What kind of string? under tali tallio-: studiously consonating, they soon fell short of the length due to them, instead of the melody, I do not know what the consonants and dissonances produce. So if the Earth is under the same size as the Sun it would be nearer, or more remote from the same, than it is reuera; it is closer to the rays of the sun, leaner; or struck more distantly by weaker rays, except that the greatest it would introduce an inequality of light and shadow, and a human temperament: life? no it would produce such an obnoxiumantum, but entirely incongruous. Contact exactly the same ret, if under the same length or distance of bodies the mass of the Sun is greater than that of the Earth things would be even smaller. For sure and determined fociàsuper- so the distance of the mirror is required to guarantee the effect of combustion so between So lem Earth for a proportional increase of heat, he establishes a distance DE wisdom most proportionate, and completely harmonious. What I said besides i. ux the effect of the sun on the earth in a different degree of heat, which the continuance of the sun between the two tropics m nio'om process, the rays just to other pa. tcs normal, already to some oblique The art of Empynca clearly teaches us, what skeratiua by fire in different and different ways applied and sharp action, different and other degrees of heat for leads, by which to distill a simple matter, in a strange way, another constitution and another constitution he acquires a strange harmony with the elements, symbolizing it, and what? prkis They were confused into a quasi-homogeneous mass, just as they were born into different parts with the help of fire ras discrete, different bodies of different quality through different fermentation, coagulation it exhibits fixation, dissolution, composition, softening, and hardening. Que- therefore, the Sun is perfectly harmoniously arranged with the Earth, thus L one, Venus, And Mercury, cs both to the earth and to the sun, have their natures the requisites of the intervals, and the harmonic ratios of the magnitudes. And indeed the Such a distance was allotted to the Sun and the Earth in proportion to its magnitude, viz by the divine power, his interposition both from the Sun and from the Earth, and his greatness were to be changed, the whole harmony necessarily being confused, it would be necessary to destroy the earth. For-, at such and such a distance it can properly sow the earth with its influx; no other i under such again and under such a one, he cannot infringe the ferocity of the Sun, and stand against the moist Sun of the Moon He mixes the matter with the coldness of his rays, and thus tempers it, in the nature of nature If it were closer to the earth, excessive humidity he would produce effects on earth totally absent and incongruous with his own; On the other hand, those of the Sun nearer, the Sun acting more effectually on the Moon consumed by its moisture, all on the earth He would destroy the world with his excessive heat. Whence the nature of the fiery body of the Solar, the watery sSiLun -unarc be objected, in that proportion of the distance, vt to cohi-
And twE fai-heret, and as if he would string together and bind the discordant consonance. Because the sun does not shine asarn'dìhf teuretn strikes with moderation in the heat, but for the reason of the ascent of each cell, both yearly and then long tfamprxter" or different; thus the Moon and the Earth each in the same degree of humidity and coldness which way he did not want to strike, but for several phases of the Lunar alteratone, as well as the ascent and descent; re nonpotc" aPgS and perigaeisque reason diverso So you see the full moon in the hottest season rat The humblest and smallest can have little power; Against the coldest Winter the Sun was in a low place having appointed the moon to rise as the vicar of the sun, so it was done by the secret design of nature, vt The lower world is exactly this variety of vestments, a kind of discordant mixture in cations would be repaired.
Because Book X Decachordon Nattira.
laughs Because, however, the sun serves as the most humid moon, the perfect moisture in it harmony with the earthly globe, (perpetually under the tuning fork) without the interference of the hearts of others they could not establish a pore, hence the divine providence between the two Moons and the Sun other mundane bodies, namely Venus and Mercury, with different virtues powerful bodies, in which the intensity of the solar rays was carmined, such as obtuse returned, and thence increased by the forces necessary for the lunar moisture, the earth with a greater variety bare For the body of Venus was destroyed by a powerful influence of Lun com fortified, it likewise fosters its moisture; But Mercury is consonant and dissonant discerner; which is noxious and superfluous both in the Sun and in the heat derived from itself that all the success of the seasons varies according to the various inclinations and eccentricities of the stars in the houses of rum, various combinations of effects are always planned; Because there is no further reason why Nature the organ is so perfectly fitted, that not by the success of time, the strings, or the loose discordant heart tis or more equally strict it incurs dissonance, so it cannot be done, vt in the lower mute incu by the elongation or approximation of the said bodies to the earth, as well as the various configurations tion from time to time in Jit7 let it not go away, what? yet not unlike the body of varis with the success of the season filled with fluids, and fever checked, by the removal of moisture at last the evacuated man is restored to health. And to this end DEV5, by nature's art, the two in heaven were completely di. flona He placed the bodies of Mars and Saturn, from whose pestilential evaporation everything fell The evils of the sublunary god have their origin, which do not open to the whole lower world Oeco nomia, &ko tefyicu, he placed between them a benevolent star, whose by the salutary influence of both, the deadly and utterly destructive force, which they had dissipated, was restrained would be restrained, and lest the ferocity of Mars, attacked by the earth, should be exposed to a manifest ruin, the nature of the eu He wanted to be placed in the most eccentric of all, viz. below the Sun and Venus; above from Ione being forced to stop for a while; neither yet the nature of such pernicious Nouerca should be disguised with the idea of keeping the bodies, rather than at the top and hidden dl must be considered to have arranged them in this way; without which the mute cannot be sewed up For the same is the case in the greater world, aggravating the great accumulation of vicious humours, for they seem to stand, because in a microcosm of pernicious fevers, and of the worst an abundance of Cantarides and some caustic medicines. safe and sound; for these morbid attracted by the confluence, and scattered from the center to the circumference, they endanger man liberates them. Thus there is no evil in nature that does not exist for the good of the whole and every place should yield at last. For what are Mars and Saturn different than dissonant qus- I will give What, however, is the perfect syncopated consonance? ligatx that not only the sweetness of Music, but also the greatest ornament ro en then win What else is Mercury but dissonance? I will give two consonances between the Moon and Venus bound and bound, lest they should gain liberty, and be bound to no one, would she be harmed by the benign influx of Sun, Friday and Monday? Certainly whoever considered this a little more deeply, planets with
the earth will find a perfect tetraphony to sing forever, in colonists are committed to that artifice, or at most They will win a luau harmony to the world, as the curious reader The celestial tetraphon would have a certain example, here in the notes It seemed to present the idea of our musical speculation. where cf. piter consonant always binds Mars and Saturn discordant
lijs proceeds, while Proslambanomena the earth above by dii- paion Netodus kj Mesodus ch- HypatOdUS tetraphon from heaven of the planets bodies established Proslamban. Earth paion, or through the diapason with the diapente. Hypatodon, however, sings
Indeed, with the consonance of Mercury, the intermediate diflbnum is drawn into his friendship thus they bind to harmonic modes, so as to render it completely consonant, for in the notes hy- Choose to see the parody. The earth, however, consists of all things in a perfect mixture of harmony and dissonance. -receives, i. e. imagine here the most perfect Music with the Planets, such as is supposed here we can really establish. The true nature of the belt becomes a constant desire for variety, so that it does not always go with the success of the time he would offer that harmony to the lower world, hence the individual Planets with their proper surroundings the center, then the elongation approximation made by the eccentrics, then va ria of the aspects under the Zodiac and their relationship, nouasempcr& nouafundant harmonious genera, but always under the limits determined and intended by nature as eccentrics, which are some of the limits of the planetary motions, ascending or, descending to the tone, they would gradually change their modes, now from Dorian to Phrygian, and from here to Lydia, moxin the tone assumed at the beginning, and the complete circulation of the tones being completed, would be returned. Par but those of the globes and of the planetary bodies with which they are heterogeneous; nature qualities, properties, and strength due to the different position and respect to the rest of the Let the various planets lie in their lot, and nature will center them around their proper center it shines, as if they were always covering other parts of the earth, just as you filled them with music, which in the artificial music of dissonances and consonances, So you see the nets are arranged in that order, vt or v no à a determined limit, like a harmonic by withdrawing the intcrual, the whole harmony is deservedly destroyed. t Corollary. There it is clear that the earth is referred to as a kind of base, above which the rest of these things are placed nuns should be founded; for this one lifted up, with the rest of the voices imperfect, and many gods to remain in harmony with the phonants. The truth here and there about the planetary universe I was not mistaken in the pymphonism of fate, but now to the particular symphonists we return. them. From the harmony of many voices constantly resounding, the continuous sound of the ears of He would be a woodcutter, he was cautious of Musurgis, who would sing a concert of many voices they would distribute the choirs, and thus alternate the choirs, with various instruments, like to some insurgents, the greater variety and the pleasure of amusement to those who listened to it there By not similating Harmosia Nature, you will unite those Phonas in various discre- uit choros; which, though differing in the nature of the sounds, yet are all in harmony in vision conspiring to divide, adorn the world with variety, and the harmony of that supermun the Danes would recommend ineffable wisdom. I will begin with Saturn with the highest con- centuplanetarij choro In recent times he has discovered the admirable nature of this plan. the protection of Lyncea Asironomorumschola, as it may well appear DEVM Opt. Max. to drawing us in sure wisdom to wonder and love, the ninth organ of the heavenly realm gi had unlocked the lock. The velutitricorporeus was first caught here, then discovered There were two bodies of Saturn, perpetually going round him like phoenixes to pack his followers; for I was unable to reach this solehoragus with a pick because of the great distance of the light
set, that Saturn should not remain at odds with himself, most wisely with his two companions, who constantly pack him in the tank of the Vicar] alone, and by mutual communication of strength it was the opposite of fouerent; and with this admirable conspiracy the harmony of the canine, which The sun The Sun, the Moon, and our Tena between sc, these Orbs Saturnius we will call netarum) each with two horned followers of Phonascis (one of whom The Sun, Saturn, and the Moon, the other haiidineongruè, in the manner of the Choir would make them distinct. And always there would be other and other changes on the proper axis, Re$ 11U[iltu He wanted to spend the middle of Saturn's Orb at a time of tg days and io hours, worth about as many days as he spends in the greater eccentricócìrfUIoberagendd years, to be surprised at the very last of these
in the Orb of Saturn but od hours i s. You must protect, and do not supplant Saturn tur, towards both count him wanted to bend a little is like a whole group of sharks in the light to be imbued real packers too is fine when around the center of the proper L' tumxitca Saturnium Orb someL at the period of zr: . fentanyl wander, to the greater influence probably a variety too est, comites Saturniosjieterogeneelfe pitu&fic circli muplu ws alfct-s. 8f other parts He imbued him with other qualities and brought the temperature of the Saturnian globe to connect the matter, and thus dissonantly mix up the harmony of this choir, to induce, vt is evident in the present figure, in which the globe of Saturn refers to A, its axis to BC. Saturnios cqmitejs E D. orbé eorUm FG; -Excentficiim vero comitltm Saturni E AD. rif!
Corollary Lib. X. Deeachordon Natùrài noted turn or l cmu? i
X necessarily follows the said harmonic constitution, Saturn because of the excessive di- Miracles of Saturn i that the station could not be sufficiently illuminated by the Sun, hence the two comirs. constitution against him in the light; For it is here in the Sun according to the account of some of the moderns. ooò, eoo leagues distant. " We certainly have our eye on Saturn the solar diameter is not less than min. I will be arrested by Virdeipaiilo the mayor the thing that Sol will need. It follows, moreover, that we are appointed to Saturn for days they will have a day; but the lower planets will be seen by us with glasses at degrees to withdraw from the Sun; Jupiter indeed at degrees. Mars a, Friday Mercury Lu, indeed, Sc the earth scarcely perceptible, and hence the omries narrated Planets of the SunComi- you would say, recognize the 29-year period of the Sun under the Zodiac, Saturn but in the center of the world you would believe it sunk. All this I will show in this place sem, veriim cuum id fusè in the second edition of Artis Magne Lucis Sc obscrua- following the recent developments, we will return to that reader; the interim is sufficient. nss at this point the admirable harmony of the Saturnine Chorus was deraonstrasst. r, n. abbili u -if iâ. jriifît nv
St. IV iuitv) Ll2l nvd: I iîàllìLâr-àmbo zdSoi
wwharozvwhm: jI L-LNVlEMEMkK called: t-3ib angib jiuiov the branches of my mumb; Lrfiu J i. I don't want to
R relicis fingylari fané artificio hunclouialem Chorum Goplestisharmoni Ar He was known to have adorned the building in these last times with frequent obscenities. Dumluppiter greatness and glory powerful, blessed He gave himself ready to be seen in this lower world, in that concert of the omens of things, which we will describe This globe is a much larger earth, being further removed from the Sun, as safe to Satur does it seem that the Sun was not at all sufficient to illuminate this one, and not so imme- fa &prsiantissimisvirtubusimbutamoIesIouia light expires, perpetual squalor The confounding of Jupiter's globe would bring dissonance to the rest of the world's bodies in a wonderful way
with comi dam nature is faithful to the council, for this immense mass Choragi perpetrò radio CnP ruih their pictrisfering, with their harmonic motions in the most beautiful harmony they would excite, - for the periodic motion of the first neighboring phonetic was in the space of hours, the second period is days a day. The third period is days and hours ris, the fifth and fourth of the same period, days and nearly as many hours apart pleriiEtsiRheitg calculus credim us, primus à Ioueremouebitur loi, fecundtiszy, ter tius quartîte. 69 semidiametris terrg. The true calculus à Reità was carried out by the Count louialiumsequentie file viâzj.
astoorri v utn il vi v iv i i v f n u ii—
whatever in musicadesidcmrlpotest abdi- l0 kUMldst, càMtUâahriE vniuscuiufque bodies of harmonious quantity 6z And how much m indeed-exireqttetibus Lyn-. ceotumiobferwationiiras J&ndmirabiti pro- pOftiohu in progress not to collect, allowed iiprk. Veneti, -vltunu m fine toti molo of the earth 4omitum! lT we took almost equally well; whence again description follows, nobisinltiuconstitutishofce cho much larger rags would appear, as much as from the earth, the sun, and the moon and they indeed see the light of Lun asce-v to stand fruitful fourth j the sun's spleen indeed dorem first third We have curiously Reader MkX lecachordon Nature l I read the description, the size of the site, that of the louial Choragore; as long as Let us see them create harmony in the Jouial Choir. In the previous figure, the first is signed siterà A) the second B, the third C, the fourth D, Jupiter, however, is arranged as if in the center if terà V. sAsfc. vuVvi'L ì When therefore that immense incomprehensible wise Harmosta DEVS, of the world He had decided to create an innumerable variety of things; established fruitfulness; in this world the temple of the choirs of the multiple choirs pbtestate Lestes, whom we call Jupiter, for here you know the Orbis of Jupiter from the world of the Orbe much. more, and with the virtues of the dung, with which he was infused into this lower world, c iimremotissimurrv would require a location from the Earth So1g, nor from the Sun convenient light, - laughing, I put two of God's Ss to him as Vicars Solesprimum third, as many as quft. He assigned vicars to the nose; and with that ingenuity and admirable prouidentiaordiniauit, vtlopiu would light up the globe perpetually and alternately, and as if the Sun and the Moon were not together sent, the auxiliaries of the Sun and the Moon would Whose also by the harmonious motion of Jouiasis An orb struck by a continual change of light and shadow, great and utterly admirable to cause a diversity of natures in the said body. For day and night are very unequal it is necessary not so much for the duration of time, as for the intensity of the light; for he hesitates to bring or Choragos to Ion in the east of the day. count but when the said Chorags joined together, they spent the night on the opposite sides of the body. but for swiftness of movement; But let not the heart of Iouias be too harmonically light your constitution is empty; Jouem did not want to rest, but continued to be happy about his own to focus on the center, so that a revolution of this kind would last so many days, even if it were me periodic revolution with its eccentricity, namely years, and for us established in Joue a natural ship would not be but almost hours; It was done in the evening, as I was delighted ma perpetual reciprocation of the light of the first Choragi more quickly with water (from the subducting, Cho the light of the fruitful ragi would reflect the light of Junar; and follow the light of the sun on this third floor tur, and at last this western light of the fourth lunar month would rise, whence again to vehe the mind of the light should be blunted, the movement of the body being necessary with frequent con eclipses follow, until I think that those Jouial Zones are nothing else than the Moon
the shadows of the bodies of the Jouial disc. fessovide in the 2nd edition of Artis Lucis Vmbre in Cofmometria fusè curiously treated. lis 4lIId? For heretofore compared to all things, the reader will find this one the most absolute I exhort him from dissonance and consonance, tempered with such wonderful art, that nothing could be more agreeable can be played on the guitar, and is therefore necessary from a harmonic constitution of this kind, Jouius, I returned a body most beautiful and imbued with excellent qualities, such as in its in- We experience this lower world with wonder. Corollary I It also leads to the harmony of the world, that Jupiter is neither greater nor less that he lived, neither nearer to the Sun, nor farther from it, than the ecclesiastic for him he wrote, without manifest harm to the harmony of the world, to approach or withdraw from buiflì- Corollary II. He also rides, there people because of the excessive intensity of the light because of the temperature The mind of the place is tied to a human being totally incompatible with the fact that it is impossible for those who are old to live That is where they want creatures of different nature to be stored; with the gods nothing is established for us, but I was inhabited nor can it be seen, indeed, even if he sees something dangerous in faith, he does not see it unless he is afraid of it re and without any foundation of inventions made by the followers of the nouitatum Now that we have seen the harmony of Jouial, let us proceed to the other dances. CC JSS Art of the Great Border God's Flora
On the Solar March In the Garden of the Sun, Apollo holds under him Venus, Mercury, the Moon, Ter- ram, and is like a parallel to the louial chorus; the harmony of which with the beginning It becomes a fat day, we do not want to repeat the same here, between this solar and Jouial dance nature has ordered another arrangement of the harmony of the world's chorus, like the March glo bum, this one would be discordant with the rest, and yet bringing together the harmony of the world sarius, is placed between the consonants of the solar and Jouial choirs, as if vtijs bound together and conspired in a most beautiful harmony. And yt hzec syu- The nature of the giocoptio would be more concerned with profit, and he was the most eccentric of all. bi Marus, it had to be placed, in which, while it descends just below the sun itself, just from the same. The command of the most important Jouis is sought, it is already done by the light of the Sun, just as Joues has been seized in to be restrained from duty, lest I should be made lawless, and thereby turn all things to the detriment of the whole would disturb her, as she was isolated and associated with no stage, the eccentric way-# he grasps, he is compelled to obtain all his light from either the Sun or Jupiter. But when htiiusmodilux would not at all be sufficient to exercise his innate power, hidden by nature co it was done in style, as if that group of March were to be furnished with subterranean fires the fountain of darkness and the smoke of fire, with excessive heat and waste, and even— filled with the worst and most poisonous vapors, whose virulent influence was diverted He would not only infect all the other worldly bodies, but would completely destroy them, unless ad His power should be controlled by the nature of the place in which he was placed. For when between let the heavenly dew be in the middle that is, at last it would merge into perfect harmony. And hare is that ingenious iyncopis than Nature in the harmonious concert of worldly bodies seems to have affected
Of the Chorus of Choirs, idei1, of this moni a ftellarum fixed in the firmament. The cynosura Around the world the pole do you want Unfortunately, in the varied distribution of Choirs, one merited the Choir of Choirs it is said that the source and measure of the whole harmonious beauty infuses others, thus "that admirable Archichoragus DEVS planetary choirs, the choir placed the emi- the most spun; the firmament, I say, with an innumerable multitude of stars, as if they were so large filled with voices continually praising God; they believed more simply that the stars were embedded in the solid orb of the velocilaus wheel, There are holes pierced in the firmament in the manner of a sieve, through which the Empyrean sky
Some foolishly asserted that it should shine through because of this time. But they are huge of the group, in the different spaces of the seinuicus, in all the differences of the places you, like a particular system, each based on its own centers, movements that the various and our planets here and there in their own world of planets wandering in triple circles and orbits in that immense expanse. However, sen let them whistle to us, their distance from the center of the earth is indescribable, certainly the polar star that he recedes from the pole only by steps, and appears to us so completely motionless yet they say that the circle which he makes around the pole is of great size, i. e. the whole. # the solar sky can be included in each of the orbits If, however, I set Q there let us hold him permanently immovable and keep the same temper on the Earth as it were which would be supposed to have a distance when placed. I mean Let the firmament be as great as Copernicus and Rheitas They threatened you, that it could be demonstrated from the discipline of optics, that v. g. the eye of the Bull or the Lyre even if they were carried in an orb three or four times larger than the sun, yet they were brought to us on the earth having set themselves completely motionless, and having the same distance from each other, return Against our eye on the first Lyras? the greatness of the established star, Solemscb pàdooTù a fixed star in magnitude; the rest of the lower planets were seen to be completely evanescent bus, H 2p c I would compare that figure around the Sun, which we compare about Jupiter rent counts of the Jouials theater, that is, completely insensible to the synastroscope. Vn- aiiios&aiios And with the intensity of the multitude of disputants, some of whom lighted me as the Sun some are directed to the Moon, that is, to a certain light of their own, and to a certain likeness of the Moons they enjoy each other's light, because there are many spaces of such height as the firmament then he is dissolved from the earth; In Orion Reità alone there are more than Antiquity in the whole firmament so, that is to say, how twice he thinks he counted the mixed stars with the help of the helioscope; however others; no they have crept up who does not know that the galaxy is an innumerable mass of clustered stars? distance, therefore, is the unceasing cause, why there is neither motion, nor their magnitude made vulnerable to us! could we, Vt cani? Major and Lyra were distant from the whole sky, yet so close would they become, as the two horns of the ram will be seen until ever more and more of us retreat into one at last to the granter thus there is no doubt that our Sun is in the last penetrable firmament if it were established, it would be certain that nothing at all would appear to him. From this another thing is elicited, Jol sees them in the vist the stars in the firmament, which to us at a distance of one step from the sky if the opinion of Copernicus were true, as much as the diameter of the heavens it can take over the foliage; which; even though they may seem unexpected; on the basis of optical training they can be shown without any problem, in this sentence, insensible Whence I gather that there is certainly no star in the firmament, supposing the distance of Copernicus, Rhei- foret tae, to Kepler to be illumined by the Sun, and in the previous days it was clear from Saturn's rationality of fate. The truth about these more curiously in the Art of light and shadow. And of these, perhaps, more than it was a match, as said, that admirable harmony of the world is clear. That if anyone tan- however incredible he may judge, he has evidently cast a spell of divine power; For they are wonderful they are works of the highest Ecclesiastical witness and glorious and hidden, and absolutely immense his purse; ch. I have hidden many things greater than these, and we know little of his works. Why, indeed, did the divine providence want men to pass these things aside, and why did this earth come before them? to all the bodies of the world in which he willed and chose to manifest the great things of grace if any one should ask me, I would very much like to know from him why this new world is infinite has he wished to conceal the least crowded in these last times? and why many ad
here the Provinces of this earthly group (viz. the subpolar parts, and the greater hemisphere did he not yet want to reveal the portion of the arrow? Why, too, is divine goodness so few? Will the mysteries of faith be revealed to men? And of these also so few to life For who knew the Lord or who was his counsellor? These are not of this one but of al a more blessed life is reserved for knowledge. He therefore created in the end such an infinite multitude of worldly bodies God, even if he hides us, does not think that they should be deprived of their eEcacifsimissuis sekkus, suffi- Why God He tells us to know that all things conspire in one harmony, certainly if nothing in the lower things nature is now fleeting and minute, that which is not most wisely laid up for certain ends becomes a confidence. how much more those worldly bodies of immense size, which are the greatest The most important widows have only to be revived in the next life. One of the doctors here even the smallest of muscles, cartilages, venules, fibers, and others did he tell the number and multitude of the parts of the human body? or only one separated from the whole body, the harmony of the whole body is certain to be destroyed. we don't know why only the virtues and effects of the particular stars, but then perhaps we would know, and study them burn etc. X. Nature of the Decachord. po Artus Magne Conson Disiam We would burn if even a single star were removed from the stars by the power of the day. for sure Ommapro twice this earth, since you are clothed in flesh and clothed in the day in which you reign Deigning to be consorted with men, she was pleased to show the greatness of her works rope for the sake of the man who dwells in it, be prepared the son of a rare man of the world, and considering this admirable machine of the world to know the infinite and inexhaustible power, wisdom, and goodness of the founder and the most elegant music of the individual parts to the excitement, in praise of the strangest composer He was continually and constantly encouraged to be paid, and so at last after this corruptible He lived the passage of Deoplenus with the word of life; china a very beautiful idea, the same and in him all the sternum deserves to be contemplated. Let mortals, therefore, learn from these, how many to the smallest portion in narrow places the rest of this point is to be acquired by toils, sweats, dangers, afflictions Are they expounding on the bus? what is the proportion of what they obtain, in respect of them, which DEVS prepared for their chosen ones, in the highest dwellings of the heavens, where; this I doubt the number of mortals who have existed since the beginning of the world until the end of time they are many; that is, innumerable, and inconceivable to the human mind. in himself there is frequent desire for mortal hills; Let them look at each other with their heart and eyes and to the light of these lights $ternng like certain shadows; so shall it be done to the earth clothed with the love of things, let them be more united with the children of light in the company of the children of God. REGI ST R V M II I A symphony of stones, plants, and animals with heaven N previous Register DEVS Opt. Max. the wonderful harmony of the heavenly bodies: he presents to us nothing; in this, indeed, the sublunary of things, both among themselves, and with the stars and with the bodies of the world he offers a wonderful symphony to the superior mortals Iamblichus says that the harmony of the lower things is nothing else than a kind of harmony the heavenly voices of the blessed, the fertile manner of nature; their agreement in this infe reverberating through the world. And although the sun's wonderful effects, and the workman's worldly secret matter InferioriCs Artc Anacamptica Physico-Astrological Gnomonic we will deliver, here also beneficence, it was seen to reach once more for the harmonic adaptations of the performance; not anywhere in this Art we should be seen with great neglect. The sun is therefore the leader, the prince, of all the heavenly bodies And Choragus, taking the paths of the world in an oblique course, can approach anyone, everything exhilarates, fertilizes, calms, plants, which cannot be dirty, disgusting, squalid, foggy,
leaving it dark and incomplete, by its withdrawal and elongation those of the earth, as soon as I come and be close to them I look forward to them, and help them with silent force: cut for he says for the time being, always sympathizing with those who are fit, and with opportune humours Buta, for bearing so powerful a friend, it should be fit for meetings. Who then finally returns gra in the thick, dry parts of the earth, restrained from the sight of those who came which first produces the fibers of the stock within, then brings forth the grassy greenness, - finally, he will bring everything to maturity. In this matter of heavenly fires and stars He is not destitute of support and escort; of the planets in the first place, which as if new They were going to work something on the earth with the Sun, but now they meet one, and from the same people; on the part of force brought war upon the lower nature; They seem to be moving and trying, now in places Dispersed here and there, and variously scattered upwards, they promise peace to the world. Now as if he did not otherwise have sufficient strength, but things demanded their threefold assistance don't they lower themselves nearer to them: now, as if sparing the inferiors, they go farther and they take away the lnluDlime le i'e: now as if there were no more important work, they cling they hesitated somewhere also what kind of place invites, or at least what kind of work price some break, conver- lo curlu they go back. All this I was very happy to correspond in the earthly world do etlectusproducendosjàDEOordinatasunt Whence heaven with a concert of motions; full of concord while Proclus was admonishing us, superior gods, harmony I would proceed first to participate in heaven; From these men, then, I set my life aright so, to undertake the consonance of manners, and the harmony of actions, and the like the function of the heavens and the brute plants and stones capable of such harmony He believed that he was going down. For the harps contain all worldly things in a harmonious manner they perfect, they adapt the spirit to conform to the world, pincveteres gyptijadum would confound the harmony of the celestial bodies with the things of the lower world, nbulque materijslympatiam a certain, consent, and kinship of others ad other things, and of the manifelts they were bound to secret powers, a certain sacred mysticism Philolophia under various guises. and with the ingenuity of things, as well as hierogly- they call it a pica, they put it on display; What knowledge do we have up to this day? we restore what was lost in Oedipus the Egyptian, giving to God.
For they saw the highest hiding in the lowest, and the lowest in the highest, indeed in heaven. You yielded the earthly in a way, but the heavenly in the earth, but in an earthly way. For whence we think those plants which we call heliotropes, i magnetic stra) turned towards the rising of the sun? And the Selenotropes, or the Lunisequas to the Moon? Of course, there is no other than that harmonious desire which lurks in all things, and impels everything they pray and sing hymns to the leaders of their order; but something else intellectual in a way, some rational, some natural, and some sensible; you see plants or violently de- How much effort do the birds conform themselves to the sky, do they ascend? through the hole also obliquely the branches of the trees were brought down, where soon the freer air was born, with the love of the sky, which is impalpable they brought out the head of the audience. r'ocii; ltaqucfolifequa quaeois in any way I can nt be advised to the Sun, vt fi quis au it could be said that a pulsation was made from the side in the air by a circular motion of the plantx; the dameiusmodison would notice the composition of the ergaregems, whatever it might be they can make plants or other things. Therefore bury the Sun, the Moon, and the stars, but create them earthly, in heaven plants animals, stones, but in heavenly conditions fertile we may look at a certain analogy.
There are, therefore, stones, plants, and animals of different solar systems, there are other Saturnina, Jouialia; others March, Venus; finally, other Mercurial, Lunar, and therefore none, according to the Cabalists more pleasing, it is interspersed with grass, which does not have its own star in the firmament, which says grow to him
Let us begin with the trifles, who knows that the greatest desire is for the heavenly bodies, and all those things which in any way correspond to nature. Proculus reports that He- to imitate a stone of golden rays and the movement of the Sun, to whom that gem was not akin, which Cardanus writes was in the finger of Clement VII. he had a halo which, according to the motion of the sun, went round every day in the east and the west. So there are stones since the solar ones, as all Carbuncles and pyropes, are also the Lunar Selenites called thence; whose It is written that Gregory X. , who lied about the metamorphoses of the moon, was made of blue it transmuted into a white color for the variety of lunar light; It is also Tuesday Ma the sapphires of Jupiter, the agates of Mercury, all stones imbued with parallel virtues. The vegetable nature also agreed in the heavens, the various herbs, plants arhp- he declares to the tumultuous fate. Among these indeed is the diurnal motion of the Sun, viz. heliotropia ia Described by magnetic art, some of the proper motion of the sun, and of the willow, and of the white people Vlmi, the oils of the lindens, which on the very day of the solstice, experience taught him to be completely inert; of whom other Book X Decachord Superioraj flow into lower harmoniously Everything to sun cou vertuntnr. Plants stone cófenfus dif- fenfufque m heaven Arm MagnaConfini Disson some flowers open themselves to the garden, at noon they expand as much as they can, close the adecafu then, with so much love for the stars, you would survey it with your company let them twist the stem, and at night, disappointed by its desire, the voluptuous tabeicêtes contract; norimfl-' Go with the Glycyrrhiza and Acacia leaves their arms raised to the presence of the Sun let them lift up their faithful embrace; qatefitura, narrow constriction; and the Lunar grasses are as many as the Lunar stars smitten with love, with incessant motion that for the various forms of the Moon I was afraid. when they are brought about, the other Planets have their own herbs that support them, as Sa turn to the ground Cypress, Helleborus, Napellusiouem Rosemary, Citrus, Betoni ca, Valeriana; On Mars Oak, Verbena, Absynthium, -Venus Myrtle Vine, oiled satyr Mercury is deniqufe evil pink, hyacinth, narcissus, they show, Consensus In the animal economy, finally, this kind of consensus is still considered. Where- The animals ru m different songs, with a certain look, some with their gestures of the stars, under which they are as well as confess their love, the history of all of which I have given in part in the Magnetic Art we admit that we are to be delivered partly from the professed Oedipus of Egypt, I did not want to stay here mouse What else is Leo and Gallus, but a certain terrestrial Sun? What cats but Lu then What is Wolf but Mars? A dog, a horse, a deer, an ass, anything else, except Mer do they represent Jupiter, Venus, and the earthly Saturn? Gallus you know the fan voice, movement, vivacity declare it. It is wonderful that Proculus tells, the demons So while the lions appeared in Leonine's face, they soon disembarked to meet the white and crowing roosters rushes, he adds the reason, because those things which are arranged in the same order are always inferior they were returned to the river, and the freedmen surrendered and settled. All this is so wonderful they seem to witness and signify by the spectacle, heaven and earth entering into a covenant and harmony as if by consent to congratulate men intensely, and diligently to look up to them, to worship them, and to venerate the Author of so many good things, the Artist of so many miracles than to fine the wisest of the most beautiful architects; Indeed, the whole earth But with the watery masses, and whatever dwells in them, they are thus assimilated to the higher elements, and those elements are thus set forth in the heavens and the stars, and again each inscrutable for a long time by the counsel of wisdom and prudence, the perhiarchical orders are thus governed and moderated tur. & are constituted, that is, all that which we call nature, by mutual embraces, ties. connected with mental offices and functions, as one from all, and all from in such a multitude of similar and different things, a wonderful harmony with
to dwell heartily But in order that this harmony may appear more clearly, here is a diagram of the whole co we decided to tie the knot.
io Enne And as Sympathias de Antipathias, let it be that consonants and dissonants are the same in nature let's declare the Na chord better, imagine enneachords, all of which are concordant into one phoneme that is, first p consists of chords, and the harmonic degrees of the fifth diapason ex takes precedence, but according to this all the rest are in harmony; that is, all the chords which prollii- banomenon they report and sound, not otherwise hypatc, parhypate, Lichanos Me itself, as shown in the following diagram.
With all these enneachords placed next to each other in succession, from these things proceed We have declared in the first part of this book, that it is certain that a pro-Slamban name was incited, all of the rest of the Enneachords, the proslambanomes will also be stirred up untouched; Again The mesa of the first ennechord is stimulated, the mesa of all the remaining monochords are with a certain agreement he would move even the untouched ones, and so on the rest. If anyone then proslambanomenon, parhypaten, mesen neten would stir up the four chords together, it is certain that all the rest, even untouched, will answer in like manner to these, and so forth they will exhibit a harmony composed of diatcssaron, ditono, and diapason. So there is no one Ice alice, unless they corresponded to the rest in vnisone, let them be reconciled. This is true the music will become much more sensitive if it is made of different chords and sound bodies! , eight- the strings were fused. In short, if any one sings discordant strings, ten, lichanon, hyponeten would touch all at the same time in the first octochord, he the greatest in
phone attractive Li'o. a. JDecacfjoraon Nature. jp3 rt-who is about to cause dissonance; and it is a wonder that the rest correspond you can say that you are tensed in vnisone, at least because of the harmonic laws of sounds they will sound a mixture of gnats, since the numbers of the intervals are inconsistent, and a certain insatiable and incompatible property, lest they be drawn against each other nor is it possible to achieve a certain harmony, through which the skill of the musician is artificial I will give syncope, and they will be strung together in harmony. For this technique is not only the harmonic laws will be but what is the greatest? harmony, gentleness, etc. later it will be said, they will win.
Diapason-with Tone Diapason Ditonus S ri T Heptachotdon Diapason Hexachordon Diapente: j slO'1
r-tO? you St ra n a ra. ra cn
Î3 V consonant ria disso nantia rerù How Orpheus ex ratio whether information everything to himself will pass
I will become a God with great bounds Such an Enneachord set up various things in the unfaithful nature of things, a heavenly string, one of which is excited, all the rest are excited. So in Lily is of metals, IV. stones, V. herbs, VI. of trees, VII. aquatilium, VII', vo Luerit! , IX four feet of X colors, to which flavors and odors could be added, and thus according to individual beings: natural orders, and by progressing degrees. And where however, they are found in each individual string, i. e. in the string net of each individual string they are said to symbolize with Saturn, for I do not know what Saturnian nature they pretend to be tur, and so they are subordinated to each other, as when one is stimulated, the rest, as was said of the strings that is, all things are excited to sing one after the other, all of you iterate, what chord? pa frogs correspond in each of the ennechords, when they symbolize, and behave exactly nor, that they make up a discordant interval, Iouite iterates with fortune because of the tone, which they are totally dissonant, unless it is said, persyncopen corrigantimporrò vQpros- lambanome agrees with parhypate in the imperfect consonance ditone, thus Mar these matters also imperfectly agree with those of Saturninus; procreative safe diapente
and diatessaron, set up a perfect diapason so that the species of things corresponding to these With the word, if you are in harmony in nature, you will gather the strings in harmony; if you disagree, disagree the effect of producing you is Death. But how, with all these things, does the world con heart, will be said more fully in what follows. FR. ACTIC CANONS Natural Magic, bound by Harmonic Laws.
It is clear that the natural action is nothing but a hidden and harmonious one The application of actives with passives, which any one knows, he by con The crane, musically combined with the irritations of nature, is no doubt the performer of the marvels he will have, and there is nothing so closed and hidden in nature that he will think, to which those His distrust was revealed. For it is the nature of individuals to be so in certain things Nevola, as if he had given them certain divine powers, and endowed them with such excellent gifts tes, but he has put proportions and similitudes in specific intervals, as they are wont to be as bait and certain drugs to attract the one to the other; by which things are joined, as if they read by the same instinct of nature, and on the contrary, there is also a certain agreement of disagreement; separated from the other by a long distance, yet artificially bound, again in one of these the admonition is recalled, that whoever considers it will easily depart from the opinion that it is nothing He thinks that you are denied by nature; for she is greatly delighted with these miracles, gulping things as a kind of coagulating force and attracting something not dissimilar to itself, which I used He gave him the ability to reject food, and he gave it to each of them when in the matter of things tural magnetism we fusifimme, and thereby dismissed Lector: surely Orpheus sa xa, we read that beasts were drawn by no other than analogical reason; As a musician An astrologer and magician would be very wise, and would know very well, in what proportion to what co hundred! each being composed by nature, to each of which the star would be the subject, har adapting to the same monastic reasons, inanimate even by the power of the stars as in to them this external harmony is latent, not unlike the fire latent in iron from flint, or flammfollisblot spread the hidden, produced placed opportunely the doquesonos, viz. , of the heavenly stars, as he himself was most skillful, he imitated the harm provoking her to this in this way, against all influence and power, which He would draw wherever he wanted by beating, and determine the proportion according to the actions themselves and those in which and in which things there is harmony, or itself, if it is right to speak of rocks, ar-
I will borcS) atcjue the animals were excited, to the motion which he had willed, a harmonious lest, being clothed with precious clothes, he should push away with some preparation. And this preparation is made by the star I mention that when the heavens are constituted by harmonics, and are moved by harmonics let all things be done in harmony, not men only, but also all inferior things, what they give them, they are prepared in a harmonious way to receive it. Why some theories method from a certain composition and mixing of herbs and other things by ar- harmonica the medical and aslronomical theme is finished, and it is fused into a common form harmony, with the gifts of the stars, and as a dowry; richly enriched, with three virtues in it that agree to the same thing, that is to say, heavenly by strategic means? mixture? charged; heavenly, naturally implanted in its parts, 5ž demented; so the matter is exactly in the omniharmonic composition of tw&xnok. That therefore, of his heptaestorda Lyra, and as Briennius speaks of rocks, plants, animals, Orpheus himself speaks excitedly, this I am better than our predecessor
Vt sang noflraque came out through the cave The sweet and sweet voice of the lyre lifted up the ears,
Vmbrosicolles, and the highest peaks of Peleus They run from the root of the cube to a; Rocks with rolling sounding strings as many as talkative Audio, Heterun on the threshold of the rock And Tesla will sing the bird from yes embracing the crown Pessa wings hang forgotten reuifire nests. In order that you may at least see some practice of this matter, here we prescribe certain canons,
What is to be found in the harmonious composition of the various natures, the curious reader would know Therefore, if you proceed expertly, let it be C A NOT I Book X A decachordon of nature
Rimò the nature of each star must be known very well, then in the earthly world Remm sitl details? the classes of things corresponding to the stars, i. e. in each of the stones and metals The orders of rum, plants, and animals must be carefully considered, which of the Lunars, which of the Doilsconii. Solari, quIouiali, qua; Let Saturnina, of the potters, rejoice in their character, of which they are uncertain. class: s reduced jlites, too, and the hatreds of things you will scrutinize to the inuice singular skill, h$c the same with magical operations, which produce dissonance and consonance in music, and they can be so artificially bound together that they produce the most beautiful harmony, Time with which day hour? oportugazpra? to be presented to all, and be analogous to physical things to be adapted to the work; for this is of the greatest importance. For another, more promptly in the winter one witness is applied, another in autumn, and another in spring. Having thus duly recognized them, I proceed to practice. CANON II. Mnes species of things, quad vnam in the diagrams enneachord chordâ Qu$nam, they belong, so they are compared, that is to say, in one, they must be overcome by rendering an excellent effect they collide Thus, the Solaria joined at the same time to present the most significant Solar effect, the Lunar Luna- cinarutTcó- the matter, Ionia Jouius, of the rest, they render effect, and they will reflect in the enneachord miaion. By nature I am not. In this agreement, if you mix the affairs of Saturnia with Louijs or Martialis, in effect when you have conjoined Mars, for by this agreement they will bind each other, and each will attack the other so it will break, meaning that the intended effect will emanate from it; For Martialia a ditonus of Saturninus velse very far from the middle tone Which Venus too? with Saturn's diapente, Ddd together "x r. ; Ernie if -juncta beautiful harmonious sent ram. efficientIta Solaria with Iouijs at a great distance, owing to the similarity of natures, they produce beautiful musicians, and Cèttifpotentertrahenti SQlariaprteacwLunaribuspcrtópmdiweslàropcònfiqi- Uht you agetuen e Saturnina Martia vptote dissona at the same time compo nasone intermedijslouijs them; sy ncopantib u s, if u e it in the class of stones, or metals) plants, animals or mo3iuîs&io mononotfie u Consoniq) Disoni
No. Ui; 'Oqjv eji onj I took the LA train G-ANOKf III. A hypocrite
i fVjo z f m nmr r. ornate
they; i-t jfj The secret in chemistry w'Vicunqueimehymic business proceed with caution with the desired result' rit, it is necessary before all things to have knowledge of dissonance and consonance. consist of tem hocdissonum confonunum-in hoc, vtcpixmineialiasibi consona, ' qua; push let them be sound, by which they are bound together, and you will know the reuocentLtr in harmony Vtfi Whoever wants to produce a solar effect, he will first take care of it, i. e. all Solaria in one. let them conspire through the diapason, then let the lost or diapent harmony be made to all such herbs, juices, and gummies are not contained within the natural class; Discord, however, of the same natural order, in the most perfect harmony, if they are intermediate the proscribed accounts can be assumed. If someone had a metallic tone, I would di- videreposset, the mediator of Mercury O', would doubtless have found that from the hearth into this one If the day is diligently followed, the moon will be found easily, just like the sixth c6- setting up a romantic tie is syncopated. A truly harmonious model by nature, viz you will achieve a monastic effect, it must be presented in all. True with harmony cam this application in the dymical business, into our subterranean world, we will return, and we will send the Lector back, where from the profession, anywhere around this ma The reader will be able to miss the third, he will find it verified by countless experiments. Here for he suffered neither the time nor the amount of work to cover everything. harmonic medicine, ss. CANON IV. A botanist. l l i "N Economy of Plants and Trees, examine carefully, such as grass lym-
bolizent, by whom not, which character they also have in heaven, which in ene- let them report one by one with our string, and the creation of the prodigious Sowers you will know that they have been restrained; Separate the discords from the Conson, unless you tie them together so artfully truths, vt do not only make them concordant L, but con which obser-Prantes Solaria, Jouialia, Venerea united at the same time they proclaim the same thing, which in the Music dia- Uada in the octave pitch, the ditone or the third, the diapente or the fifth, perfect harmony; Satur- tar nature wine, Martialia, Lunaria, Mercurialia, introduce the greatest dissonance into things, the same which they assert that the eighth z. in music; If, however, with Jouijs, Solari, Vene- Syncopata in musi- Alexiteria, Antidotes, and the like are associated with this, as between salutary and deleterious they hold the middle place, so they are considered dissonant; to be corrected; For when taken inside, the taste is repugnant, but the body is from humor the bus was freed from the excess; they restore health. It shines like this most perfect- harmony especially in that most famous composition of Theriaca, where the consonance of Solatia viz. by artifice they are thus bound together, and they form the most absolute harmony with all the numbers. trust Lib. X. 'Decachordon Nature.
let them finish, and even so, vt in no other temperament and harmonic proportion, vna. sir the symphony of things harmoniously conspiring to be clearer They abound in solar and aromatic Sun mictocophibic, that is, in harmony with the heart, yet heat of them, the Louisians, the Venusians, the Martians, and the Saturnines, are thus infringed upon and the qualities of one's syntagma, and thus binding on another, and thus prorsushar monicus, not so much by human energy as by heaven inspired medicine the chin is born. . It is true that we have described that Bed in the Magnetic Art XJÌA To this end the model of the physician Harmosta was prepared for the preparation of the medicine infirmities, not so with the Solarians, that the rest of the members should suffer from it, so that for the second chord: resvtpote sequisonantes the intended harmony, they complete but db the resinous chords of the consonants are assumed to be the consequence of the drug as the harmonic effect shines forth; hinclouialia Solarius, that is, hepatic cardiac, admi they are to be ascended, lest, while they strengthen the heart, the solariums may kill the liver and lungs with too much color, lo- For in hot and dry waters, the heat of the Solarium acquires a pleasant temperature an intense conspiratorial effect. Be the same judge of the rest. I will tell you about these more in the following canon.
CANON V. The doctor.
Composition medicine har- monks It is certain that all the members of the human body symbolize with created things all worldly materials, having been preserved only in the grace of man, are in the abyss I saw the most beautiful harmony, which is the health of the human body, and the best constitution rare: For just as the individual members correspond to each Planet, so also the things which Plain those of both the greater and the lesser worlds look to the members of the microcosm They had a certain innate appetite, which was quickly recovered in an opportune place and time they went out
to Jouia to If. In short, Saturnina are driven to q by an innate appetite, and each individual they sing gulisfuus like hymns pervading, so to the Sun of the microcosm cardiac, to Cephalic, to Ve nere spermatic, to Mercury pulmonary, bilio-t fa to Mars, to Jupiter the hepatic, to Saturn the splenetic, and finally to the earth as it were a kind of kitchen, and the penury of all things, as long as the stomachs are in tune with each other, and so much so that the principal members of the human body referred to the ennechordonperectiffimère Dissonances and consonances are thus permitted, yet by the Artificer, and skilled in the art, into a beautiful that they may arrange harmony. For example Lively nutrients, or even my hooves Alexitcria, as they are of various nature and quality, and are called to different strings, 1ilCro'
soon they were taken into the stomach, and one thing soon to the string, which matter it will shriek, it will resonate; idescardiacacorsspleneticspleen, cephalic brain, liver hepatica, and thus they ask for a kind of appetite, and that to which they are naturally inclined if they are organized, they will strengthen the member. However, disharmony, fed confusion He would make a discordant melodious song that would stir up all the strings at the same time; hence the harmonica in a certain proportion, thus the nutrients will be controlled, viz let them introduce the monic temper, established from the perfect consonants; If someone veròfyn- the art of copulation (in this, indeed, the beauty and ornament of the whole of Music was composed stands) he knows perfectly, he will also gather together all the discordant nutrients into the most beautiful harmony, and that which formerly brought harm, will only confer benefit
Further, if Harmosta, proceeding further, discusses the scarcity of similitudes more precisely, and the characteristics of natural things are contemplated more intensively, he finally knows the infinite a multitude of non-chords consonant in turn in different classes of no Which he has if any military with some equal to man you, his me tell me usually Kiss me especially Me I mean offer to wash there is no doubt about it For as a string moves a string in a similar way, so whatever matter, or from minerals without vegetation, or fensitm$ nature? prompt order, why what a pious member, a part or humor characteristic of similitude, this is the form, etc ra, color, or the like of the body, either for the attraction of the good, or for the repulsion evil, the same member, part, should be believed to excite the humours. Hence the carnal car the bones, the bones, the bloody blood, the bilious bile, the spinal nerves, increase and nourish them In this way, things that express diseases in a similar way, contribute to driving the same.
By this agreement Galgalus of Jaundice, of Elk Epileptics, of a defect of the stomach, of a wolf's stomach, snakes stinging with their bites, the liver of a rabid dog hydrophobia; by which see the Magnetic Art, they are cured. So everything is stony and calcareous, or something they have obtained the shadow of a similitude to calculus, against calculus the remedy is For a humor that sins against any member, non-existent outside of nature, is dissonant with the same iit, by means of the same medicine to the sinful humor, long drawn, attracted, and at last he frees the member with a sinful humor, with a discordant thump. Any har- I will explain the reasons for this monastic sympathy in more detail, it seemed to go a little deeper. Hippocrates said that the natural healer of diseases was the instrumental cause, to exercise the principal faculties of steam, or to build up or build up cau his soul immediately grows; As a matter of fact, the mrelliges are not only elementary partitions the rniscella, of the first and quality tomorrow, scd&most of all that substance I am rooted in the warmth of the originality, and the spirit of the soul and the body is settled cule, heavenly and terrestrial tiypostasin, than the more secret Philosophers choose heaven to lie, they name the most exalted one in heaven He informs the fallen pore of the femen, arranges it firmly, and the soul and body from under him the matter thrown upon him squirms, and flows out into new harmony with those parts of the body that are close to him a mixture of ca. For a part from the head of a pea, a new head, the idea of which he retained it conforms; Quajexcorde new heart Qua; from the liver of the new liver, which; from pulrao and so you will lose At the same time he drew his member in not yet rdstofoetu, it is the same duty, ipfummct in already published in all the to mend me, or restore me to health, if by chance he should fall from it. Although it is true that whole nature to the integrity, repair, and safety of the whole body however, most of all, he ran to different parts of the body, to which they are inborn, and they add to it the help which the Medici are wont to call dilposition they will be of a part proceeding from the whole substance. Although the nature of the mini- they had discussed with me, every kind of particle; sii b stan ti$ innat$; yet they have something of their own,
with the parts of the body which they touch, for with these they are in harmony, but not with themselves they are there, they are present, they are healed. Since then, according to Hippocrates, it is considered tóavy ture of diseases should not be cured, and nature itself should heal diseases immediately, Medi whose minister was born? he must take great care, viz. , those three things which the nature implanted with let them establish, that is to say, moist radical, innate spirit, and warmth in the new-born let it join you in a completely harmonious connection and proportion, so that the moist heat does not become greasy let the heat itself destroy the food in excess, and defraud the spirit; how much if he procures it, he has nothing to doubt, that the nature of his own character will soon be perfected tem our body would conduct, but to whom is that harmonic connected, to what the manner in which it should be procured from the Doctor remains to be inquired into. Arabs Egyptian Medicine do they say that the Catholic nature of strength? conservatrice, and the border of the morbid expatriate; Csiymistaelapidem viuistcum, Paracelsus Azoth siue gold potab. ilej, Lullus asserts that there is a fifth eslente made by himself from wine, which he calls cooked m. Ve is that the Medici were partly deterred by the difficulty and expense of the venuiesal, which? let them descend to the whole body, to the particular, as it contributes to each part. Hence, vt It was said a little before, Cephalic, Cardiac, Splenetic, Hepatic, Pulmonary, the like then by experiment, thencharacterism signature discovered appd Doctors today vsurp 'SgS The great art of Conson Difjon ra; L ih. X. Nature of the Decachord.
ta: which, by the similitude of the whole substance, the parts with which they co-sound, with each other and agree they have natural moisture, heat, they increase and attack without fault. Further these remedies, which are taken from inanimate, vegetable, and a few animals We have said to affect the parts of our body by the similitude of substance. if they have had an affinity with the parts with which they are in harmony, they will strengthen themselves the more powerfully in music where the consonances are closer to each other, the more perfect they escape. Yes who, therefore, from the dead body of the same species was destroyed by a violent death v. g. of man he would bring out the residue of the moist cogenitor by chemical art, which is undoubtedly the most suitable medicine he would exhibit the coipori to the living, and if from the whole body, how much more help) and parts of the same the nature of the conformation, and it is to be hoped that the plaster It is certainly known that the human skull is Mc(J; cin ueressals and properly pneparated, the greatest in d expected even in the scalps, the force ob- to spin, and there were some who sprinkled the soil on each body, parts fused from Micrecus they would kill him more effectually even contrary to nature. Oedipus will be taught about the hieroglyphic medicine of Egypt, given by God, I would have been there I find From the mummies also, I hear from the Arabs that I am fit to ward off all diseases I would say that the medicine that I have mentioned above will be so much more efficacious, the more it is part of it the substance of brewing was nearer in affinity, if indeed not all, but the parts of any species and animals are to be assumed, but that which; hot they make a tone either on the diapente or on the diapason, or on the vnisone with analogous members; really liquids, as if dissonant, were neglected, as is evident from the enneachord of nature. From plants too and they should not be taken for sick animals, but for those who are by violent suffocation the moist root remains for some time. See what's going on here in a nutshell We said magnetic.
fOn harmonic proportion and form to be introduced into things. Harmonic proportion, as has been said, is a kind of universal form for all things the non-existent order of God causes the harmony of all things, for with na-ha0pni the whole being harmonious, the rest should all participate in its harmony, for what is the ideal? marum from the first Archetype, to the last chain continued with the first po he was foolish, therefore it is inconvenient in these matters that the harmonious form should be intended for harmony, It is found to be procured, to say here, that which was arranged as briefly as I could is In the classes of all natural things there are analogies to one another
they are carried out exactly in proportion to the innate appetite, and hee the intended harmony perform The mundane elements of this music are radically moist, soulful tatus, and natural heat, which three are not only for the living, but according to analogy a kind of heaven does not exist in all dreams and souls. How long, then, to the crowning in whatever order of beings are well constituted, so long things are in due harmony; get give is listed, and the most absolute temperament of all numbers. I'm really wet all day long! radically more a: quo into the spirit and heat, and these act upon it, continued dissonance u. odo Con- be sure In the heavenly world we shall not incongruously call this moist radical influx tin=ant lunar the heat of life, the solar, the worldly spirit, and the bond of the two. Hi the influx, if they were more immoderate, or due to the conjunction of the neighboring planets discordant aspects, not only fe, but also all fec underline in a mbiat manife stand JbirQMitu they will lead; We will treat them at the right time and place in the latter aspect, sinning by excess or deficiency of moisture, proportional to the heat, the median let us bring you back in spirit to harmonious medicine, as we taught a little before. This pa whence the harmony of the lower world is affected by the unfortunate configurations of the planets brought into disharmony, storms, floods, sterility, famine, pestilence and half a dozen diseases with the succession of time. However, with this success, time is getting better the situation and disposition of the matter to the next night, the salutary influx of bad weather into things two A mixture of wine with water admores co to be placed harmonica indeed it must H S o Artu Maina Consoni Dìsiom I'm sorry they reduce to mediocrity, whence they consist of a continuous air of serenity b fertile. peace and abundance of all things. the indications of the harmonic constitution Jn the elemental world of this moist reservoir are the clouds, to the greatest need? ; of course, as a guide to heaven that heat I make wine, draw up the waters of this land to which they are attracted, and restore them, &si let the fluids abound more equally, they are again drawn from it, drawn down, in the same manner hear they are carried from one place to another by the spirit of the wind, which is like a kind of vehicle -clouds to be distributed to each country like a certain comet, and everywhere if there is need to be supplied, they are brought: let it be stirred, behold, that wind that clears and dries it, or the earth is covered by one night fuce harmony restituitypluuia? therefore, to complete the harmony of the universe, rigâdis; t, ei ris. ' He is the one who makes the face of heaven, earth, air, and water.
The harmony of nature is followed by the law of microcism, in which the principal members they will correspond with the principal parts of the world, -when then the moist radical spirit warm implanted in each member, according to the ratio what condition of the member xir-it, if those three dissonance through excess of vei deficiency Garumad indicated that the harmonic mediocrity should be reduced by a gradual method Plutarch certainly the proportion of the mixture of wine with water pr? he writes harmonica, tower for health, as well as for settling the infirmities of the mind. For if parts of wine aquL mi scueris, nafceturdiatessaron imperfect consonance, separated from others ungrataq; safe The wine made from this mixture is almost watery and disagreeable, and it is known to men as lepers business of great importance intenr. s. If you mix two with three parts of wine, you will be born there diapente, pleasant and pleasant consonance, and such a drink of this temperament makes. the sweetest and most pleasant of all, and such a mixture of this; the drink will be returned, I always say with regard to time, custom, persons, and the quality of the wine. But what is nature; let's get back to work They all find themselves either inanimate or vegetated biles, whether from the sensitive species, to the inuicé harmonic connection
they could Metals come to themselves from the bowels of the earth and generate moisture and vapors. the ion of each metal is necessary in proportion to the corresponding metal which it produces. In vegetables, each nutrient from the mother earth, which their It is most agreeable to the theory, under such and such a proportion they suck, as if they were skipping. it would be necessary to fail them.
This application of nature is followed by the art of grafting trees Do you disagree? He never inculcates nature, but consonances and proximity to himself in the similitude of nature things A miracle of this kind was brought to the utmost amazement of all here in the garden of Rome with PP. Aug. discalceatoium is observed, where a citrus without a root hangs in the air, the leaves nevertheless and flowers and fruits on that ground, which from the neighboring trees of the same kind, whose branches this ra they are involved, it produces nourishment. Hmcherbe came to the heavens and went to the ears, like everything they break through the obstacles, so that they can satisfy their appetite. Give him other things too they studiously avoid sound, as the cabbage vine declines with the flight of its stem and leaves curaibitasup a vessel full of oil is so abhorred that it seems to shrink completely. Is that nature for inanimate animals as well? instinctively seeks fodder, which It was the most consistent of the repairs. That, however, is fugitive to all, that whenever it was wet it could bring about some destruction. From here to divine providence each one learned its own antidote, with which knock And all these argue for nothing else, except a certain harmonic form in hidden in all things, by which the excesses and deficiencies of things call back to mediocrity then the disharmony of the aforesaid things will be called back to harmony, when due to nature group rr r v
Lib, X. Decachord Natur# t
of bodies, of affections, namely, matter, in place, in appearance, in size, in time the rum of all things has been explored in proportion; For vtóstendimusptiu? metho The reason consists in an analogy of the active and passive causes, which you rightly dis he knows how to put, he easily in ynairu the discords of all the tones and the most diverse parts he brought back the symphony REGISTRVM I V. A symphony of microcosines with Megacofinus, or of human music.
Once upon a time, according to the ancients, it was agreed that there was a certain animal, which had a single mind or soul let one spirit, possessed by the body of the devil, be diffused in the same manner as you, no I saw both the human reason and the beauty of individual parts and actions reason, by the force of reason, even if perpérâ, dempstraripatabat. For let us consider this world fit one equally and manifold divided into many worlds as articles, mem of nature both like and unlike, that they come together in friendship out of quarrel, out of discord in- the consonants from the infinite plurality are again reduced to their true form; Pmer The worlds are tired of that supreme and incorporeal world on which they depend connected by a continuous link and like a golden chain, Major, Minor, and from each tus, a politician Man became a microcosm after the rest, because the divine goodness was in him under r He would express a sort of summation of what he had done diffusely before; if it is exact let us set up a comparison of individuals, let us compare nothing in the world to a greater one prudence not even in man, the son of the world, as if in the matter of all things there is one measure, by God, let him shine. For in man there is a certain portion of the heavenly, the other of the celestial, de which, placed in each border, as a $ther, unites the forces of each: especially if con you may see a dense or internal viscera with external seats through the intermediate streams of the humors and spirits, or again between the viscera, by which agreement the most superior through the means they are committed, that both spirits and pa tibusanim respond in equal proportion to the whole Similarly, in the body, inanimate, in the spirit, there are stars, their axes, centers, if circles, Zong&elementa, in cedosue plants Se animals, their viscera, tunicg, muscles, ven? ,ar- terif, ner ni, his head, heart, liver, his vital spirit, natural animal, his staff
that is concupiscible, irascible, rational, as nothing has been more truly said by the Philosophers there is nothing more famous than to be everything in everything, and with the greatest and the least to obtain perpetual; than the kinship of nature, and the perpetual consort) laws while they contemplated the old passions and dreams of lovers mixing with each other believe this aSryS ex-v%v to be a completely conspiratorial and expiratory animal from thence they run their knowledge of the components under the name of magic, in that of causes and effects, which was fixed in the mutual conspiracy and symphony of the various parties. You see, then, how man first expresses the heavenly enncachordon in himself, and quarn suitable harmony, the heart, the Sun, the source of all life and movement, the Brain, the Moon, burni no, the melancholy of the whole Seat; Mars chest of the saddle, which they strengthen for the force of expulsion I will give according to nature; The kidneys of the spermatozoa I parried Venus, to the genial na-
ture movement to promote a kind fabric; the lungs of Mercury with the spirit of all CrrVmi' connecting; Finally, the stomach refers to the earth as a receptacle for the whole of us. You see who; in the elements of the world, how do the humours, the clements and the bilious concord to fire, phlegmatic to water; air bloody, melancholy where the veins' flow. vberratem; Bladder Oceanus; Vessels, tins sides; quoted main members me-" phallic bodies; shots of earthy rock-fires; The earth is the flesh, the hair is the grass, the most exact of these nuns they report by consent. Thus the hidden signatures of the herbs each part of the Microcosm
Ltb. X Decachord of Nature.
tes, by marveling, denotes a certain magical agreement; So the papaya, the walnut, the peony Agaricus, a shrimp prepared for the head, which they refer to in a hidden analogy, wonderfully con they bear Moss, Adiantispecies, Thapsia, and similar hair; On the ears of Asarum, shells; Euphrafia, Calta, with powerful eyes; nose mint; hyoscyamusdentaria, nuclear the ears of the teeth; Veils of the throat; hepatica, Lichen, Oak Fungus, Jecinori; ci- of three, Melyiophyllu, Cardiaca, spikenard, cardamomqm of the heart; pulmonary lungs; pendrium, Asplenum, Ceterach Lieni; Cyclamen, galanga stomach; Intestinal tube cassia, water reed; Vesica colutea, staphylodendrum; Shame on all Saty The species of tiorus and orchids are in perfect harmony, each of which is a string of velvet I will give which legitimately tenf$ with the corresponding chords of the microcifm hidden a certain, tudentum ctt As I said, they are in agreement. And the head, indeed, to the presence of cephalic, to the liver their liver, to the heart of the Cardiacs, and the rest of the members, or to make them lively, and to be healed by likeness, to rejoice in nature, and to drink like wine the analogy of the things corresponding to it, as it were they seem to meet friends, guests, and conspirators. It is not the case that the most characteristic diseases are fixed in the notice, to what purpose they are employed cat, we have arrived through the hidden harmony of the worlds; For sure the preceding star: terrestrial, plant iniquità circumference to the sealed parts and limbs cen as if the presidents of the members were brought together; so following diseases and the differences in the microclimate indicate the morbid cause from the centers of the limbs to the circumference then, hidden by a certain reason, they drive out any feces attracted to the faith, and the heart expelled by the caufa pus restores its former harmony. In this patio, crystal, flint, citrine, lyncurius, cal culus microcyfmi, Lichofpermon, the kernel of almost all fruits, and six hundred: saxifra- a species of gallstones in the kidneys and bladder, with a strange agreement queerutjdisspluut, cófringitq; sîc juice of herbs where you would unlock any of the humors to they are ordered to draw him. This patio Cancer kills the cancer, fcorpius in the wound when crushed it heals the same. Earthworms earthworms, the wolf kills the wolf; hazmorhoids chondrilla, whose appearance and shape he relates, he takes care of; blood flow, blood in the pole the line is crushed; Serpentine feathers bitten by serpents; time would fail me I would like to take you here. As many species of meteors in the elementary world, so many diseases in
they are microfcofmo. Whence Galen shows the same generation of breaths in us, when ea, quzefitinorbe sublunari. Hippocrates, too, in his book on the nature of children, makes a common no- Diseases bis and plants not only of diseases and of health, but also the rise of the whole and the interi-rocosm? ' He drew the image of growth, status, and decline. Garbarti Greek fu- ytTttqujd are different, like rain and snow and hail? epilepsy, vertigo, inflammation fevers, such as lightning, thunder, thunder, and that kind of fire, some flood? Apoplexy: Commata? lights, floods cataclysms? nephritic pains, gouty, than childbirth monstrous, and things in places not of their own kind, but of a whole kind out of nature? What else can I give? lores of colic, hysterical, hypochondriacs, like the whirlwinds of the winds, the euphoria of the mounds, the morals of the faiuilfim earth, folded in turn within the earth: trarijs by the elements of fire water, or bile pus. No, it is not only here that he is admirable le consent in the whole microcosm to the whole megacofum, but also in the individual parts to clay can be compared, even in the human head alone, whatever nature is in the whole vniuerfumcongeflit, it should be exhibited, and adeòc truly àmcYTuvnhosQuois amtyt- VfiivtipiytKtKrftiU let it be said; For when the intelligible itself, more intelligently, &mu. the intelligible soul becomes the same, but the intellect will be mute, at6TAgta yufatâf Therefore, there the world must be looked into, become indeed more intelligent, while through faith it is naked to everything the bus is clothed with intelligibles, the material takes turns: the first; Forms, so unintelligible he outlines, that in reality nothing differs from the intelligibles, he omits the task. So do your soul the vegetable culture of the plants, the philanthropy and the emotions of the animals, the rational of the Angels and GOD But I will speak a little more exactly; The element earth: on the head we have a helmet; water, hard; copper, pious Mother; fire, the substance of the brain, or, if greater, the taste of Earth Artis MagrueConsoni touch; water? the eyes; air ears; answer to the fire with smoky nostrils and fiery exhalations you will note Metals, which? whence the black humour of iron, of copper, of solid gold, of pale tin, of silver, white of lead, leu the cup of the earth is a mule, everything is bile and slime, sulfur and mercury produced; The sea it is present in the bosoms, sprinkling streams from below into the brain, many, v$bes& home hope the various paths of the roads are set in the tubercles of the vines, and in the ducts sylvia? they are hairs, fe rs of lice, insects and other animals, and whatever happens to be born in the brain: Lachryme dropping dew and frost, the dirt in the greater corner of the eye is desolately imitated; Tetri vapors obscuring the sight of the fog, the clouds of the brain bending, the winds ringing in the ears Coryza is reported to be falling down in the rain. The foamy snow, the sludgy hail globatata, the murmur of thunder and the wind, the lightning of the consternation of the eyes, the look of lightning terrible Comet shows and the rest of the meteors on fire, with a loud and red face and they present it. If we transcend the elements and the deranged, passing through the rest, the Sun in its native warmth; of the brain, the Moon in its wet prime, the greatest luminaries, Jupiter in the temperate i Saturn will flourish in melancholic, Mars in bilious, Venus in slimy blood. market riuSVeròin the mouth and the tongue will dwell. If we fix the structure of the brain and spba? ra? about-- culósSd clearly exposes the images of the group. The whole machine of the world is seen, isn't it: a man only, fed or only? its part is perfectly symmetrical. No wonder then it is: a man composed of all the parts of the world to include all things in himself, which? om- The crocuses are beautifully described in his manner by Cardinal Hugo: Threefold, he says, in the voice of every creature ai'm tnaao no'rs speaks. is the first voice. Receive the benefit, secondly, repay the debt. The third suggestion at the top what It is the first voice of the servant of the church, and therefore the voice of the speaker. To minister unto thee light in the day, vt
You see, darkness in noRe, vt rest; the air says life breathed into thee, and the kind of all things Atiium to your submission. The water says, I will give you a drink; I will fill your tables with meat and animals. The second voice is the warning of the world, he says. I tell you how he loved you, who made me for you: erte The third voice from that threatening', the fire says d you will burn me, water will drown me. a Earth and hell say, you will be swallowed up by the sea, the benefits of God shining in us c or. you will answer when you leave. But let's go back and look at the old ones in the micro straw the most perfect? shape? the multitude, the diverse variety of heavenly elements, a vast array of the most magnificent things, a beautiful array of the most beautiful things the sense of harmony, from the wonderful structure of numbers, measurements, proportions and harmony niaSjdum all the members of the family are strangely proportioned in harmony: tias& commcnfurations offer, inueneru nt; Where? when they are peculiar to this place, de We have decided to treat them a little loosely. d jut Of the harmony of the arts in proportion to the human body in numbers, ; UKJ Ole ciUJtiii-i. Following the architects of Vitruvius, most of the human stature was divided into two parts. They are usually used to find out from these the proportions of the remaining parts, another wings; other times measures muenemnt We nature? following the harmonious architecture of the human body the measure of nature? let us first divide into parts, for thus man- ipfaformed, as if to present this face in the highest place to be looked upon, and the whole of the whole -parts of the body should take care of it; And it itself consists of three dimensions a bus One will be from the forehead where the hair grows, up to the intercilia; The other from here to imas liares, vkima from nose to chin; first wisdom? , fruitful of beauty; thrice Such is the seat of goodness. Where? increased indeed? it will restore the whole stature of the human body new Lib, X. Decachord Nature.
nouers in portions as distinct Zones. The first portion will be the face itself; the second will make a portion of the breast. From the top of the stomach to the navel a third, from this to the bottom of the thigh fourth wall, d as they contained hippedices to the popliteus. And finally from this to the knot legs; and the lowest part of the body is the node to the bottom of the plant and the space of the throat, the body that which is between the top of the chest and the top of the throat? the top of the pious hair? from the forehead to the top of the head, this is said to be joined at the same time. They make another portion j Will it then be humane? the nature of the length of the parts completely new, but we are talking here about the most perfect and consummate male proportions and not of the stature of infants, women, and old men; whose bodies are strange they differ from the true proportion. It extends from the outside of the shoulder to the joint of the art of the eyes, but from the armpits inwardly to the borders of the palms of the fingers, three faces, established that the whole length of the arms was faces, the breadth of the chest from the armpit to the armpit two bags, and the breadth, which is the space of outstretched hands, such is the height of a man, and the individual parts of the body in relation to each other The logia and commens is what follows. What is the length from the intercilia to the top of the nostrils, so much will be the production of the mind from ir throat, and how great it is, from the nose to the chin, so great is the throat. which guarantees that in music the semitone; Again, how much is superior light from the mouth to the bottom of the nose, the protrusion of the uppermost nostrils to the lip and the abintercilijs of the bones to the inner angles of the breadth of the chest so the faces will be contained by the two, the space between the glass that mother triillatn vna, and the dear the site of the cecum will be detected by a circle of the same dimension from the lower throat; palm tree and so the width is the portion the middle, of which constitutes the whole height. Again the parts of the height of this agreement deprchendentuncapitis through the middle of the forehead al
the degree of is partium, itetn sum? from the back of the hip to the top of the forehead to the cer- a row of two, also of the hips, of the neck of two, of the chest through the wings to the back of five; Belly through the middle the art of lizards, hips, legs, thumbs, and so on the sum of the circumferences of the limbs corresponds to the length of the limbs. At what height? it is from the bottom of the ankles to the top of the foot, it will correspond to the load from the bottom of the foot to the outside I'm sorry. The circumference of the neck is that part which is from the top of the chest to the navel. he answers; Thus Pomponius Gauricus Veriim vt the symmetry of the whole harmonics pro that the portions may be better known, we shall present them in smaller numbers in a different manner Vitruius followed, asserting that the body consisted of ten heads; the disorientation of which from the preceding, not from any other place, except that of human bodies, or not similar, or proportionate Tiodenon proceeded to the dimension of those who were correcting him. If therefore human Let us consider the weight of the body to be divided into parts to muicern coinparatg the quantity of as many parts as the following table relates.
j From the root of the hair to the bud, or brush The nostrils
From the top of the chest to the hair-. Chest
Lib. X. Décacbordonstatura Whoever correctly pqptulates the hps numbers, all the perfection of the consonances I will repriet the mere ip ijs. For at first to to zp. to vnifonum. i to z. tzad diapaion to diapente; ! to diatessaron. , t to to difdiapafon. And I did and the parts do not make a barqion with ceeterisjnisi the length of the parts of the shark, the width of the pocket was equal to parts. NamficfronSb nose chin in length the watery, parts, of the red face, that is to say, the two eyes and the middle fpacio equally a? jibus, they present a perfect vnifpnum.
Again, the safe source of beauty and harmony is the three hours that if he had not kept the proportion of the fonnant, he would not have had anything discordant with the statin while, beauty harmony? destructiveness emerges, that is, in those men, with whom the forehead or the productiqr from the nose and the constrictor; or the forehead narrower, and the nose longer in an arch it stands, it appears. You will find the same in the proportions of the poet's limbs, as they are joined mouth is clear. In which you also see the most perfect man in a square and a circle commensurable, and indeed a circle with a double center can be established in man, for two- Humana for the hands and feet were divided in the habit of folding the limbs, as much as possible; Mother of the Andrean cross? will accommodate, the center of the circle will be the ends of the hands and feet square touching the navel itself; fi verd-feet contracted, the straight breast will expand, the center- ensuratiUe the ends of the circle touching the ends of the hands and feet will be the middle of the spermatic parts. Hence it happened that the wisest men had a wonderful proportion in the structure of the human body And when they were finished, the temples dedicated to God were built according to the same model they lack For both the Ark of Naomi and the temple of Jerusalem were of this kind Salianus and Villalpandus clearly demonstrate that the human body responded. In these igi- temple there nothing remains to be shown, so that we may now also contemplate the inner harmony. ; so ih roles
On the Harmony of the Inner Microcosm The human body is divided into three, as it were, first Zones or Regions; is the head And the sky refers to the archefcypuriij intellectual kingdom; the second breast, and heaven of the faith, perhaps, in every one of them? seasoned, carry out their operations, ex- What an admirable harmony they harmonize with each other. Sacred head: the hearth of Pallas the brain contains the principal microcofmic province of the earth, whose skull con
it stands for the bones, with which the whole structure of the head begins, and many of the interior of the house plex camberation is forced by some velvets. Of course, this amazing improvement the wonderful ducts of the veins, the atria, the fine, the coIumnse, and the vaulted involution, of the brain of the heli ces Aquiductus, innumerable forests: springs, marrow? white fcu cords of silver of your admirable fecundity, your incomprehensible prowess, all because of your brain's oclerua they are regarded as being ordained by God; He drew up his helmet to withstand foreign attacks he could re-; wisdom He armed them with swords, whose prioress was called the Mother, all the fine and curious internals of God in the smiths fills The other, said the pious Mother, let the whole brain fall into different pockets; time "man would fail me, I would like to bring back all the pieces of the brain, become that block of the brain, let me proceed to lead the silver cord into his sacred pipe, that is to say, the thorn of Dorf; become I would like to distribute all the pairs of blood coming from this cord through all the members. which may be counted by the anatomists as for the number of vertebrae; yet they are conceived; Ve Rum as in the preceding, and in the book of the first language? deal with these fuses we are sure, and with that we send the reader away. Let us therefore proceed to the second region of the breast. the breast, indeed, is the receptacle of the spiritual parts, the abode of the heart; formed by hope Is the guitar at the end of this shell? like a microcosm, the harmony of the whole? , vt postèàdîcé- there, like a certain spring in this for planets microcofmicorunv do Members of the mir with crocos political mu give compa run away îtiunîr: Myself brother in my man cosmos: gnu gè- of reason intruding s in the harvest let's go there Dissoni m m
then, if the visible and invisible world is separated, Iieh; earth, vesicles the seat of fire; bowels with the slime of the sea, the air in the star of the heavens double mohi systole dia the stoli covered from sunrise to sunset, and coiìtrâlnfobilium. If indeed the Republic; compare it the oar, the reason will be called the King, the will the Queen, the intellect the Councillor, the heart, finally, the Pri will report the behavior; For when the heart fails, all things fall into disrepair, the heart is perpetually in systole and diastole He beats the drum, and immediately sings to the retreat, immediately sounds the cymbal, and it is not incongruous a private economy game? he met, in which the car cturay brain advisor will act the liver-Sc ventricuiusxmlina exhibit, the spleen and kidneys cloaca, ven$ meat mon strabut, the arteries will supply heat, they will prepare the sauce for the nerves', Melrffi'òholicus Suc imagine a lean, phlegmatic, fat, bilious hot, blood-tempered body tio pictures fugge t-et; Tell the two pictures from memory, the eyes, the heart, or everything else will bear the candlesticks it will be controlled by the other members of the vellum, the servants packing it up. Cdr therefore irafcible ani- MT seats, facuhdkisn&r vital spirit source, natural'fire heat and sun micfdco- fmiKuiu&mfluxu: let all eternal things be brought together, hmcad ealorem brought together fiflîma durj(simaqne contextaCtìbstahstia is consistent with every type of wall. Praneréa'qùttl the vessels of the heart are not inconsistent with the four paradises fl bmih à; c om para r i; p o si u n t; S u fi t enini on the right two veins, caua. fanguinenyaffert V arteriosaptbfàprdm excorde-pu Imònibuè infers, two arteries are situated in the sp art of the sinus, the Aorta the vital spirit and the blood. tòtbeorpòri distributes: finally the venous air to be inspired fiS-brings into the heart, spii itus virai The issue of soot reuehùyarteriofumquc blood in the lungs. of this performance my organ consists of the five lobes of the spongy pbfthon visible, for here while expanded, it draws the air into the star, and its pressure constricts it through innumerable channels diffused to all the members, or distributed as necessary, fanning the warmth of the heart. I followed there is the stomach, the chyloses officina, promus copious here the ill affections are integrated it undermines the harmony of the body, an importunate debt collector does a great deal to a man
the sense of business, which should be effectively contained, lest the roll should go astray, two between him The bodies, the liver and the spleen, are formed, like a cauldron between two hearths, because of the fuel of these be brought together by unnatural heat. Hepar proprijsquasisuipptibus fa You are the source of a thousand feeds, of love, and of concupiscence. of man, and all the vital faculties depend on it, the brain is connected by nerves to the heart give through the arteries and veins, the stomach, the intestines and the spleen through the pharynx and me the grave of the rare, c peteris of the body to the fathers by the proper common bonds; Chest the liver cleanses the stools by drawing in finer bile, the spleen with melancholy humor, and the kidneys It liberates and cleanses the dewy humor drawn in, the earthy and juicy intestine drawn in disturbs; The veins of the mesentery prepare the chyle, and supply the raw material to which it is supplied He put on the form and redness of the liver, the head vein distributes it, c cererà? they rule the flocks ra'îi? let them clean the house, which; if he be compared with the worldly side, cranes are found The third kingdom of generation and corruption follows, meteo- filled with logical impressions, the belly containing the bowels, the bladder, and spermatic parts; the stomach, the length of a man seven times aquar He was distinguished by his prodigious effects. The first part after the stomach di citur furorus fme duodenum According to the fast; the third of it between the hips placed, the matrix of the iliac bone is bitten, and there are three thin and narrow inrests; moCecum like a woolly sack, then Colon, the broadest of all, blown by the winds- that carter, colic morhirpinera Sequituphoc the right intestine, at length conti-, after the so-called nuata, implanted in the sacrum of the bone is finally laid down in secession. It follows the bladder of the microcosmic sea, a certain Jew, by which all the water? irv of the lesser world they gather in a certain gap. The spermatic vessels follow, which? inrra se virtual mi- they contain the cosmos ordered by nature in the propagation of the species God's wisdom, even in the very nature of the seed, can be marveled at, He fashioned the thing into so many different and distinct parts, more than two hundred bones, as many; cartilage nes Lib. X. The nature of Dscachordon.
needles, ligaments and tendons as many, almost innumerable membranes, Arterial vein and I carried myriads, more than thirty pairs of nerves, four hundred muscles. Who will tell a miracle to a woman who has passed away from you, here soon and the genital fluid of the pig he took, he formed a perfect man in a completely harmonic interval of time i for the law in the first days, Auincenna testifies, after three days it becomes like a tyre, like a blood-gut and red filaments appear, exactly fifteen days after conception He refers to the blood, after the other twelve, the flesh, with the principle of the viscera of three distinctionelpectatur. . the beginning of the posteàspinalis medulla is seen; finally- after twenty-nine days the head is separated from the shoulders, and the ends of the sides, and the belly is clearly discernible by the sense of the fetus, which is the smallest in the second half of the space occupies, gathers together, exactly in time as I said harmonically, because here from the numbers it is clear to you that it must be completed. after seven fine months, or as much as nine months (eight months for the space of the birth is irregular) the fetus with frequent palpitation of the hands and feet broken bones, the acrimony of the outpoured humor stimulates the two, and the weight of the two tus, then stimulated by the force of the expulsion of the sarcinum finally excludes, what? I will build this fabric, which is the wonderful power of God, from his supreme wisdom and infinite your energy shines forth in a strange way, you look up, and from there you learn to love God eternally; But himself concerning these the most learned consul, M. Aurelius) Seuerini, the most consulted man of all Nature; He therefore saw the harmony of the microcosm, and now for a moment introspected its sensible harmony I will give Women to you pens. i i i ih
I courted them Elementary.
In the foregoing we have shown that the distances of the stars are like certain chords, ip but you are the spheres of the stars, with certain weights attached to the strings, in that proportion from the harmony of the world is ordered, every chord is strained by other and other weights, another and another they eat the sound and if indeed the proportions of the weights are in harmonics to the inverse pro- in addition, the extended chords should be exhibited in an equal proportion to the incited and consonant intervals; the strings must necessarily be the most perfect and the same harmonious chord. editions, all of which from the proportions of the mundane bodies mentioned above to the interior they are clearly open. Thus, in a similar way in the elementary world, about which sensible syrnphonism in pro As it has been said in passing, a certain perceptible harmony is hidden, which would shine forth as soon as possible most of all, the diligent wisdom of our attentive faculty would strengthen our weakness, indeed, as it was said in the first book, he makes up for the ill-health of the body, from the ill-health of the heart pore, when air or water comes in, there is a sound. And indeed the movements were proportional les harmonically, the sound will be excited, harm onic, sin, dissonance: will be born. except if the movements were quick, sharp; if slowly, great sounds will be born; on which suppositions, threefold Can a sensible harmony be considered here, the first escape from motion? and the prosecution is, which maximally in the dispute between plants and animals and the friendship of dissonant and confounding people, 2(g we see the family. Here appears an admirable concert at first in the sea-palm and the scemi-palm For those things which perish in this way, let nothing perish altogether without the other. nor watered, vt grows up, Sin? at ia he wants, unless the water is drawn from either sex. The cocoa tree of America without the shade of ebony in fact it is completely covered, and as if I could include many things in a few, there is no herb which does not it is in harmony or dissonance with the other, so the fern abhors the reed, the cabbage of the natural vine hate; yet in the most humid place the fern begins to harmonize with the reed, while the reed suffocated by too much humor, he frees himself by pouring out what is superfluous. Sicbras Fff so jfi o ArH4 Border Dijjqni so take care of the vine liquor soon âoin aura iri is tem olenti iq dissonant iib-i stomach concura strikes, consonance, begins, while the cabbage? too much vapor of wine, drunk with liquor, man He claims the former harmony. Oka. pmereà oak, vitex Satyrio, Nymphea hy pertconi are discordant, yet they are in harmony when the care of man is prepared in a harmonious manner. for the mice flee from the origanumalamivespertilionis and crowpupar, with which they are dissonant; capr$: cy- Sympathia mura, ouis Apium raninura, illilethale adeoperhorrelcir, vt ida nature pictum in he- Mhiarerfit wears a match; Why does the elephant shudder at the pig's grunt, and not at the lion's? I saw Curotis the horse howls when Cereus sees Aries? Who is the lark so the hawk, the turf hen of the rails He taught me to be horrified, because it had sometimes happened to me in the hands of men. Why does no one prefer to die in the jaws of the enemy? certainly nothing else but concealing a certain mu thus, by which consonance the dissonances are so aptly moderated, that the most beautiful harmonies arise from thence ri must be It is true that this sensitive music was treated more abundantly in the previous section then see The second species is the internal liquid motion, by which the spirit is harmoniously excited it excites the muscles equally harmoniously: in microcosm they are two, that this sensitive they constitute mania: the first is the movement or pulsation, which comes from the left ventricle of the heart, ve standing as the seat of vital power, and the factory of innate heat, it traces its origin to that which is next to it the ventricle of the heart was set up like a factory of arterial blood. and from these through continuous. systole and diastole, or dilatation and constriction, are born of the spirit, altemiil harmonic sensitive instrument; for vt rectè Hippoc. lib. he discusses about food, vein the pulsation of the rum, and the breathing of the spirit, according to the different states of consonance and dissonance these are the signs of disease and health; for from these motor faculties, vitalsq and action they depend only on the prime movers, who indeed move in the various microcosms
by the members, they are divided; for if the spirit in the heart moves more rapidly the muscles and fibers con have quoted, they will present a sound similar to minute strings, which is loudest, while the heart let him dance with great joy. T ististia, indeed, with a gradual heart, and the spirits lashing out greater movements are caused, when the fir profos is executed contrary to the former. I will continue to fear the breath your animals in the liver to the movements of the heart in man they perfectly perform, they are in proportion puI" sesquialtera, St consequently diapente the movements of the spirit animals ctocófmo. " they have a double proportion to the heart, for they are twice as slow as the spirits in the heart when they are excited, they move, whereupon the tuning fork rises; But the movement of the spirits in the brain, the heart they are consonant in diatessaron, and so on; therefore it is perfect in man and perfect in man, the consonance of all the members is not only analogous, but truly, if of our ears infirmity might reach him, sensibly; for the muscles and the blood are moved by the spirits they are necessarily moved, but when they are moved, an illusion is necessarily born, like any sound con- it necessarily follows, whenever the movement of the vital members is barred under these proportions they must be ordered by nature, as it has been said elsewhere, necessarily some harmony they will exhibit, if indeed in the weather, the movements of human, animal spirits in some mem if the vitals are more or less concentrated or remitted, disharmony is immediately introduced, than anything else, as we say that it is a disease, which indeed will be so much greater, as several members were discordant with awkward movements; And this being true, It has already been shown in the first part of this book, where we have shown various experiences of spirits
our vitally harmonious air is disturbed by noises or voices nice to be advised too. They clearly demonstrate that the tarantula is intoxicated with poison; so for the harmonious nut, as soon as he had rebuked the spirit of the tumultuous, he harmoniously— it excites, here to the harmonious modulations of the air, it excites the muscles and fibers, which, finally, ho they provoke me into the forest by their movements. The same thing happened to us, for while we hear beautiful music, which immediately breaks into songs and similar melodies we are excited; which, however, would not happen at all, unless said, harmony through the air harmony if my love, let our spirit be imbued with a similar harmony. Since then the movement of spirits in the vital organs, the heart, brain, lungs, liver, spleen, kidneys, r for the natural constitution of the members should be different, different movements, etc. monicispulchrèconsonant
Chorus Ekcdchordon Nature. t i v ì siirtttó mm6iip'tmobfîU33Ì'L In ss j: rr tupbup-hr ti Cosdllarrnmf r: , -andtzjpbl r. loiìtò 2USf; i2-pri tss pila nimh-y? inc the court is gathered, what do you call the court, because, to be sure, with vital angers, the vires once irritated the contrary
Atet, too, why are the herbs of the limbs j which they look upon, so easily jnedeau-? to burn the liver, for example in the greatest inflammation, where the dissonance is greater, Why is it born? de incurrerit, hepatica taken soon by its specific force it diminishes the heat too much; restored to the original harmony it is time to judge them. vegetatiti, how sensitively riattò qu$ not tan- then they are harmonic, but like Veluti" instruments they conspire to compose music; thus ture omniair seems to have composed the music. I originate from the plant family; different sizes the wind stirs a harmonious sound. This by agreement, if some Pines were eipsad fe inuicem ma gnitudinis, vt prima ad securi da m sitin dupla, hc to the third in half, and the third to the fourth in fefqujtertia, fourth to the first in triple, fifth de- well, to the first in fours, I say that they are agitated with the wind, the sound was completely and perfectly harmonious from
it must be said of all the bushes. I will be angry if anyone perceives the movement of the growth of plants it could be, no doubt, a certain permanent that he would perceive the forum to be harmonious. Pnrtcrea nature, yt itself totally and perfectly harmo it would show that everything is in a certain harmony seems to have been constructed by art. The matter is very clear in any kind of grass, of whatever kind they are, Horse or hippuris without a horse's tail, PHV, like Valeriana mi nor, A. i undineg Sobolis diuerfj species, cceterq; -thyrsigerae plantò; of these in the thyrsi internodia spa nature has chosen these intentions, the most perfect he exhibited menochordidraisioné. dc which see li. 2 in some parts of the system of the pipes of some organ He seems to have prescribed the construction of vines. For if Valeriam AB or Arudinis EF, vti hippurisCD take the thyrsus and each internode exactly When you are discharged, or adapted to the pipes, soon after du to obtain the first internoediutoninteruallu (which is what it means vt to you will find; in what proportion Tercla hope I will feel it issue of harmony Sensitive harmony in trees co. change Increases herbs bush, ar boron, by let me ask her ex passing -Tf nature now internodes reeds organic the art of indi it will fit Consoni Dìjjoni not also the third and second, the fourth Jctertius, fifth and fourth differunf vti figpra fequcns a, ss strenditinalibussupcratau deficit scfquiocta- whatever in proportion, it would be said that nature in tuning fork between nor pfter any tones, also a semitone had thirsted for the way to ersi This admirable natpraf Mira Organi while I was bringing one of my students, speculating- co"vna'arfi nem dignissim soon to be put into effect ra- dLe. 0 tus, he constructed the organ of the Pentateuch, that is, ex huge reed internodes canals repaired tt into animated pipes, proportion length vh irà tacte à natu a fabre&cta is found, or from a distinguished one âM ariifiis#nfccttrviderefttur. The first surprise vaieriana: bìlifc, nefeioan àqudquam obfcruata, typum here hbnea We expressed it with a cane; the same Valeriana: thyrsus, above which the despot is wonderfully constructed; VìTuh where m
be FEBRUARY vti appears in AB. Equisetum CD, let the mentioned proportion so exactly strike, vt The nature of the fiber can be seen in such a subtle and exact division. ra a nc rable, that the individual internodes refer to us perfect horology a? quinoctial: So- HoroJogisi dem folijsad thyrsum as if ad axéequal discriminibum normal radijs lines ho- naturaiettC tarias reports. thy; and he bowed to the height of the pole, his shadow within the leaves denotes the current ram, see figure. But these things you pass by. In Porro, this instrument is not buried in vegetable matter, but in living things Mi! fi, the JUS of harmonics is reproduced; the most beautiful proverbs of the Hebrews He becomes an animal; scii: An animal while alive has one voice and when it is dead it has many different voices. so It is mcbnsjuis, that every animal expresses the wine with a voice given to it by nature, whence it is affected. he has nin'ftrumé; but the dead man has many and many of them. For their horns are infinite this music. , pneumatic bells of all kinds, horns of hunters, horns of shepherds, hornbills, cor- gerund
Tortoise loose lu straw it matters Penz in the wings keep running um doc. dog they are made Description wonderful fun D151Ì'musicians nymphs and their daughters are made; For you and your legs the best bird, in pipes, pipes and the shores of every kind yield, and the bowels go in strings to every genie fidicina mints, harps, turtle-necks, lyres, etc. to be made; skins finally it yields to the drum; and the skeleton vt in the shell, the whole instrument is destroyed leads For what else characterizes the body of an animal, except its most absolutist shell the neck, the neck of the instrument; tooth whorls; strings of intestines, coiled with whorls;
Finally, the belly denotes the belly of the instrument? certainly even from the single wing of the Crane, fyringarru. d odecaula constructed, that is, twelve pipes, which were nothing but two the ten fifths are held in the same order and proportion, in which they were formed in flight by nature rat, not so long ago I gazed into the animated pipes of the bicromce with the utmost pleasure of my soul mouse -This ink is made by an artist of no less skill, who makes the whole body of the crane with everything the members turned to a musical instrument of various sounds. of this A of two one of the legs, delivered by the tube he presented the rope. Stomach S vtre he was reporting, who through the other leg C inflated and pressed, wind feathers or quills OPQR ala the natural ones, through the hidden ones I will give the canals a wonderful energy He drove the arrangements, and there by some handles or palms The syringe is pressed with the help of the fingers expressed, any modula tions to which it is consonant bat the neck of the animal MN, in for I'm sorry, I don't know which stranger he ate adapted from the mouth to the mouth at the foot of the hill and other animals were extended, when he pleased, he the rest? harmony? they agreed beautifully; it's amazing technafma, no less worthy of sight than of hearing. Wherefore I attach his figure here I didn't take anything. If time fails me, I would like to refer to the links related to this material. It is clear therefore, nature is not merely an analogical proportion, but in order to the sensible-s to express the harmony of the bodies of the fiue vegetables with the end of the animated fabrics dv fposuissc
registrvm v. . Of Pulses and Rhythms in the Human Body He also recommends harmony or disharmony in the human body, as That wonderful discord of pulses, which we were allowed to hear, the eucracy or dissoluteness of sinful spirits would be given us an unbreakable judgment. As the pulse of the whole musical artifice, fiue intervals, fiue time, fiue interi- Pulse à giosutum which we will then make manifest, vbipaulus higher so worthy ma We would have wished for the third time:
Since, therefore, the whole system of pulses is situated in motion, the nature and parts of this, whoever He will want to know exactly the differences of the pulses, that is to explore, it is But there is movement Magrue Conjdm Bifloni vismotrix in pulses ì Artery pul without instinct rum And the condition is not simple nor consists of simple things, fed is composed of several Th Aotu? lI tlll0rum lacking in something, the movement does not take place, so that there are so many differences of behavior, as many in motion the flint-paites, which they congealed; They are completely in the feathers for the complete movement tion and nature of the five with the first necessary First, the space through which the mover produces motion, and finally, through which the artery moves As much as it was great, the pulse would constitute a great jfiparuura of small ones; average tV c n in short, the pulse, if it is average, will produce tia1, a big fat man, of average height. v. Secondly, the time which the motor consumes in motion is required, whence other things continue menriram'5 the difference of the emanation, which is such as was the measure of time. If the motor pulses rum-time spent in motion, will make the pulse rapid, if much time in having taken a slow, if at all moderate, time, a moderate pulse will arise, u 'iiusîurtì Thirdly, when this kind of movement arises from the movement of the grandfather or, that is, up and down And if it is established from above, it will necessarily need intermediate rest, from which soil the pit in the pulses there is discord: For either the arteries will remain a little at rest, and so I cir p u fu m bru or for a long time, and makes the pulse rare, or moderate, and will cause a pulse between vtrqmque-j. medium-
. t&i finrr. q Fourthly, a motor is required, which we say is nothing else than the power of life As we have indicated above, the lem in the left ventricle of the heart from which the whole harmonic artifice of pulsation is completed. He is strong and strong if she was strong, if she was weak and weak, she was weak; If average, average between it will give a strong weak pulse.
Fifthly, the Artery is required as an instrument by which the artifice of the treacherous movement of the nerves is betrayed tur, and for the condition of this artery, another discordant pulse is born, for fi artery du ra, dense, solid, and tense, the pulse was hard, dense, and tense; be soft if it is flabby and loose, it will give back such a chicken, that is, soft: or if the doctor of the condition the artery will also present such a pulse,
In groups of fifteen simple pulses emanate discordantly, from multiplication of the three simple differences made in the five requirements, is shown in the following table. The truth of this artist) in the products the wonderful harmony of these differences. you never fail to praise the concert then, we will explain a little more. Facul- vimotrix tas lgitur vital I was familiar with the function, ab essi-vfu's pulse, which he naturally grasps, ex- what? cited sued such a mass as the preceding one was, with strength; First of all, the arteries according to the quality condition of the ear, He stirs endlessly, if how much. can stretch With this fane faculty Pu]fus di, by the aforesaid instruments and through the fpacium tia fumimr or the mentioned movement is made his con control, such as necessity demands: Vndèconstateuidenter, size or parity according to fspace the position to be taken, the state of the faculty, i close to the force of a blow or percussion. ria? at the fingers, from hard or softer Perceived by the beat in the pulses, What each one that he is perfectly clever, not of such motions tuin and pulse physiology, but Si
Great Average Park Average Rare etc. X. Decachord Nature,
diagnostic m, artiological, prognostic that the parts mcdtcinWcaniotes penetrated let him know For when these x are folded, again xy another difference of emerges yuxtiu some of the wisest physicians, and the most powerful of the pulsations, fold them here;
i Great Swift Violent Cicber Soft-irr. - mOlOOiW
Moderate Moderate Moderate Violent Moderate Moderately Fast Moderately Slow to grow rare f mr.
Violent Hard Weak Mollis: i; v euiiuu hand sUbup x'meq muo iâ fig
ijSmall Slow Moderate, Moderate Moderate ZŽIZ-PZ Moderate Moderate Moderate Weak Soft Z2ti2âtm. r And And from these pulses the engine of the microcosm is driven, every time the weather, the when he encounters discrassation, since doctors often use very different names, instead of in the condition of diseases, they what kinds of infirmities, and likewise inqualities of those who are organized S. 1 6re' unequal inordinate; for some pulse is unequal in size, let the mode, order, and circuit of that inequality strike the same equality, say there he is ordered in the same manner, that is, with the third stroke or the fourth greater or lesser, when the scraper is fired in the same order i but if it makes that order on this side -only with each pulse, only with the third or fourth pulse, or with a longer interval It changes the size of the rampart. It is said that it is disorderly: here, again, there are others called myuri pushed between It is an intercurrent pulse, which between two pulses the other is of a prostrate nature running it is faster at the ends vt appears in the notes. Magna Consoni Dìfiont: lir. H'I
Intermittent pulsation follows the opposite path to the aforesaid, the arteries thus resting in the dul cate, as some perfections seem to be wanting. rr, intervening. Intermittent. Failing.
VP I %vT A7! "But the pulse is desiccating; when the artery seems to have ceased to move, by the pulse The exile of z is said to be a deficient reciprocal, when the postulate goes to an interval of time rum returns to the movement. Vt is evident in the missing internn. ittenbitudis
The pulse becomes vengeful, when some parts of this pulse are more refined, others less. we, in a line, move again slowly and quickly, like waves pushing themselves, which A They confuse chickens and birds with worms and anteaters. The difference here is that What do you think of the progress of the vermin and the windy movement of the ants? his step will be followed. The capricious pulse of the unequal race assumes the property of fighting goats. for when the Goat smothers the other, he raises himself first, and then Ca powder holding day he restrains himself, and immediately rushes in with another movement, far more rapid and strong; pulse if similar movement it is called capVizans.
Among these others there are a number of media like p u fu mspafrri ic u m, p alpi t ft t e m, hectic, .noisy, about which, lest I should be longer, I will remain to say. About the harmony
Therefore, the structure and mode of the pulse should be determined from the four most important parts to be consistent; , of course, the two will be moved as if from the arse& theses, the other of which will be the upper artery, but the other, the same, compressed toward the lowest part; who died in the manner Motion dila. . as long as ex'Contrarijs is established, it necessarily obtains certain intermediate rests, of which the rest of the reason and that which is external, namely the limits of the pulsation of dilatation; the other internal boundary con- the traction of the artery, that anatnraad the traction of the air, and the moderation of the natural heat, hxcad is very cleverly arranged to expel the fumes of the fumes. But what rum Lib. X. Decachordon 'Mature'.
solid movement is an indication of the state of the body and health. he knows the game, who knows Rhythm due to his knowledge of harmony and modulation equality and disparity, than between dilatation and compression that ptilsus feruatyritè he understood. Rhythm, therefore, in this place has no allusion to their watch; which are in the pulp Rhytbmu-v the proportion of the times to the inuice: When the proportion is true of the barium of the same kind: what is number of units î the amount of arterial distension? to the amount of contraction; you will contribute, from excess, Rhythm you can tell perfectly by the defect and by the quality unequal; he is, with the time of distension, which is the tempdriedntractionisisitieCCht one time does not exceed the other, and this order proceeds in the opposite way. '
Equal rhythm, which is the natural and best pulsimi Galen Pararhythm he calls, he meets those who want to be in the best health, with the true change of the piilfus ratio If it happens to the tis, the region, or the temperament, it is called a pararhythm It is said that The uneven rhythm that or give not a natural one Galen cites; it exceeds the rhythm equal to the manifest or hidden obsolescence; If before, or it is done with a multiple proportion, or double, triple, or quadruple; under what proportion in music of perfect consonance, diapason, diapason with diapente, and disdiapason are considered; or with a superparticular proportion, as they are one-half la, sesquitertia, sesquiquarta, sesquiodaua, namely diapente, diatesseron, tone. If later, that is, by hidden excess, then Eurythum us in no certain proportion, neither Any well-known music can be expressed; But about by that manifest excess which shows us manifest traces of health or infirmity. We must now see how these rhythms are brought back to harmonic laws since before, we have expressed the rhythms of the musicians of different ages. Cantus Boy. raur. on, iiJitl-i: The rhythm of lis siue pari pro- portin nodis fusis M V i Ka High luuenu! He replied to the boy that he had stopped B known as contraction or distension of the vti artery;
They express the dark song of their upper voice. " momobtqqoiS. . mwuh Rhythm. equal ans-propos g you will end up semimin
EÉÉIIEE Adolescently responding to standing, contraction and distension of the arteries; has, you know minimisAlti meeting. Rhyth. equalis, fi-: 5IT: t: t; TZ I propose that the pair V'vV'v in the smallest notes, i Tenor
Corresponding to the age of manhood, contraction distension of the arteries; has, of the least known, I dare not
from jnefi: so Rhyth. What kind, if.
in hot semibreu. '
Old age refpondensy contraction di- the tension of the artery suffers, such as semi- Z short notes; on the basis
As those. as you see, therefore, the harmony of the rhythmic pulse in the different ages; For children na lan itate vte ntibu s, the pulse steq u en s fast, which beautifully the supreme voice of the children plierisfus he expresses competently; In youths, however, it is indeed more moderate, but blind G ct a w tv O with Artit Consoni DiJJom iQuipulfusin excitatici) Alto is compared, and the pararhythmus interuallo detestaron a, Adolescent- I joked at a dissident level. In the manly state the pulse attains perfect mediocrity and therefore we have most aptly expressed the pararhythm of this age with the smallest notes in the Tenor's voice Who among men? It is distant from the second interval of the ditone and from the top of the hexachord. A fine thrust in the thigh whence it is expressed in the base or lowest voice; pararchy buspuifusT thmus for a manly tate ditone, from Adolescent, diapente a childish fine diapa Son disagrees. You see, then, from what kind of rhythms some are of short duration, others of long duration, others of long duration longer; so if one were to trust the Rhythm of a child, was he aptly born? short time moreover, he will find the garden, which has changed the rhythm of youth, now He acquires long-tempprisrhythmum, nature and vegetioremjln Rhythm, indeed, by force having changed his state, he becomes very moderate, and adapted to perform actions worthy of a man mouse Until in old age the rhythm, having changed, finally fades into ruin: let us apply this harmonic speculation to any one thing; dlRhythm in all incidents, and from them we can divine the safety of the country, It remains to be said.
Of the Harmonies of the Pulses, by reason of the four Temperaments, The of the year. The pulse system do not delay combination don't sit down ranted It is evident to us that men are of various temperaments; the reed provided various and diverse and totally different pulses For bodies with a hot and powerful temperament are necessarily large and swift grow They were found to have a thunderous pulse, but not a violent one; as it admits of different degrees of intensity and relaxation, so also different pulses has Cold-tempered bodies, completely opposite to each other, are divided into small pulses slow, frequent Humid climate, the pulse exactly as they are drawn of women, vt will be taught a little later. Dry climates eat a bigger pulse, hard, and in the town a little more violent, such as in thin bodies we experience whose harmony we present with the following notes. Cold, Hot, Wet, Dry. Tone Distbnus Diapason Tone Dissonance They hated it Diapante Diapason In this diagram you can see the difference between the pulses in the four temperaments presented with a combination made to the contrary. So cold hot tem They are opposites, so their pulses are completely different in time, idemq; they stand out in mustea, because the tone is the most distinctive among the consonances; between the differences of the pulsation of the humid and dry temperatures, and as the fimul conso spin, it cannot be done; just as the tone cannot be consonant in the music. But cold and humid temperatures can meet, although with difficulty, They are the same as the fimuliunctaprstant, which they detested in the castle, which is for a different position nor is it now consonant, now discordant; A hot humid climate
Obama's warmth and humor are very sociable, so they also present the same thing that in- muffò diapason-, I will go on Lìb. XcDeètichordon Naturate.
Porrò stmillim05 proculdubiopulsusex air temperature you will find, vtpotè which Puifusex ae or the seasons of the year, or the different natures of the regions, are entirely unaltered, they are divided to the other According to Galen, the seasons of the year are best divided into hot, cold, dry, and wet. is changed the temperature of which is now established as effective, that is, they do not merely change the pulse, but the truth actions and all things, from the functions of the body cite the greatest and most vehement: indeed, if they had been less temperate, they would have suffered so much from the aforesaid" they will blow, as much as the body whose pulse you touch he stood, and the reason is that the ability does not become strong in those who are intemperate, and neither will the rest. it is equal; Indeed, bilious bodies are better in winter, slimy hosts, temperate really In summer the pulses become small, rapid, frequent, weak, the reason for which is born ca the diEpation of the loris, which renders them faint, since he is still alive at that time, himself the pulse must be rapid and frequent. Moreover, in winter the pulses are small, slow, the rare, the feeble, but next to the Galenums we will bring the great and the moderate in the rest nor do they come violently in the spring, since during the interior of the winter more they are heated, it is necessary to follow the big pulses. In the Autumn, Pu]sus Auifi's pulse was doubled indeed the cause of the languor and unevenness is brought back, the first is that Autumn is caused by diseases from corruption. which nature cannot bear harm on this side. In fact, to be cooled and soon at the same time nature always causes heat, because at the same time it is drawn to different things, and so on the arteries adjusting themselves to the weight of time now to greater, faster, more frequent, but now to the opposite pulses from this very neceslariò and infirmity Lt pulses lan it is necessary to follow the gueror. In these four seasons of the year the air and the nature of the country will respond; for if the air of the region having a hot constitution, it will produce a chicken similar to that of summer; spring? if he has no time, he will return Vernos the chicken; st Autumnalum or these evil, such a pulse will manifest, follows this wonderful analogy; fourfold time of day, time of day, noon, nighttime, time of day whether they remained Corresponding to Autumn's Night, in Engustsqrj
Abdi- thus ordered by the divine design, are there no varieties here, health Diversity to stand perfect in its own time, affecting the harmony of the pulsating temporum niatnv Just as, for a thousand elemeotârs consist without the variety of the annual season: He could never have the generation of things, vt. aforesaid; it is necessary; so pulse now violent, spicy, hard, only soft, slow, languid, already in a certain way having both to the air ever-new new; to be attracted, then to the suligipes to expel the fa n g u inis, absolutely necessary) are Qa5. all with jn preceding tar ftastnt, djsdiutiusnonimmorabimitr. : if, i minor r wire i5Txt, i jJ: OÌ; d Corollary. yt- fji. u fi r (v y
'iiwtio i I Ai. It is also evident from the progress of the discourse, that it is the otatumquCi of different times if we were allowed to hear the pulse, the future. vtJharmoniofamintrandamfym
uls harmony phoniam stilè avvnmex And we would perceive it established; semsih proportion should be double, or even quadruple, necessary diapafon or disdiapason rfeta be perceived when the pulse of the youth of the youth sit in the proportion of the proud p'artiente thirds contin. uò'jnobis would manifest semiditonus; again the shock spurriad viristtin pro- portiOne: fefqutaltcTa, -moxdiatessaronsentiretur, &stcdecoeleris; posttotamenstngur those who are established in the best of health. yes aiàò8Ì#Uo No
Q cr CT V O O Bounded Bounded There is no abfim}iration, the pulse of a man fanned in winter to the pulse of the same man in established in the summer, it will be found that the autumnal impulses have a double proportion to Zestiuos in sesquitertia, and these for spring in sesquialtera, and this with regard to temperament. inequity is absolutely necessary to be repaired, as well as the struggle of the times -nandum is very wisely arranged by nature. That st through the weathering of the waters. ctKestcriar pulses fade away, vtpotè confused symphony with equal pulse tenor having changed, harmony also prevailed; must perish. You see, then, that the pulse of them pus should measure in perfect harmony, but the spirit of the animals is like harmony let them complete exactly
A similar harmony is carried out between the pulse of the man and the villain. C ib iji I Corollary. III. what do you say? sounding He said Inc follows: that whenever the harmonic proportion of the pulses is disturbed, a disease which is nothing else but a certain dissonance of the humours because they are very diverse, so different diseases are caused by different diseases. in this case another a group of feverish people, another of hydropic, another of phthisical, another of epileptics, judging from each of the other diseases. Hence nature is so reluctant; dishonor for nia tortures the mind and the body and nature; it implies obvious violence. Corollary. V He would therefore be a physician who had such a knowledge of this harmony, viz he would diagnose the pulse of diseases, without doubt through opposite means harmoniously applied by adding, then subtracting, the body soon to perfect harmony -titebre he could, and since nature has willed a few of this hidden and pure knowledge to be Con you know, it is not surprising that so few physicians are found today, who are in sickness when they stand out for something special. If, however, one of the doctors put our mind well into it having read and accomplished the aforesaid, he has duly exercised himself in this mysterious document of Science, I have no doubt that if he helps him, he will do wonders.
Music of the five external senses.
riri rtirin doctor bet eff. peri the music fap music then
They have no external senses in the home, their harmonic harmony from the consonance dissonrf perfectèîCoagmentaTam, than before the harmony of man let us describe the pathetic sy-itiphony of the internal fennel, $veti loti) first we want to undress and nothing in this great art of consonance and dosso ni I omitted Aridcreinyr. r v i: :r. .
Cùbvverò de visus colortiMquehartoonia m quarta parte prxcedentislibri, vti&in Arte: m âg na -lucis fusè we will deliver, but about the object listen to the bile, qvL it is music, all this work is devoted, nothing remains except the rest of the senses, Odor let us pursue the harmony of taste, taste, and touch. Music therefore, says Cardanus, is an important contribution? simply by comparison and indeed the greatest gentleness to the diapasonre it is celebrated from the night of the muses of the concert in the saporib us; therefore sweet answers to him as simple; for what can there be in the y-croque genus? But fat, such as in meats and ouis be-nè priKparatis adi diapente reuocatur enim yest &ipsc juauissimuspost sweet at- that he is perfect in his kind; The diatessaro n, indeed, is best falsely called, for here it is lost It is impudent and 'mfuauisisicitus also the taste of the lalscsest, but they diatessaron with diapente it completes the Em diapason, but the diapason is completely dissonant, so the salty taste with its fat it brings me pleasure, it sounds sweet and sweet, as if you love better It is best combined with salted olives, therefore a salty taste when added to the wine; incongruous; MUt
rur- Book X Decachord Nature.
again the semi-ditonous with the insipid, (stringing together with the deacon they meet to yngucnv, i for every one who was not ungrateful and met with a sweet one, so a semi-diton and a diton with paion conuenuunt, vtcrquc even of these flavors a little moves the old, between as if similar, which happens to ditone fcmiditone; but neither of these with fat
fconuenit, neither a ditonous nor a semi-ditonous with diapente, for it does not disagree a little in this composition: Again, they are alike in this, that they were appointed together He consorted with the half-tone very much, so that he consorted very well with the insipid and astringent falsehood they deny for the diatessaron makes the major sixth with the ditone, and the minor with the semitone the thing is that they are in harmony with each other, not that ramen is sweeter by itself, because it is sweet and rich they lack neither a major nor a minor sixth, because they complete neither the diapason nor the diapente. But the acrid taste is similar to the greater one, the acid to the lesser one, they mutually agree when in bitter sip, and with astringent acid, just as, and the sixth major with self-laughter the cone, and the minor is coupled with the dicon, by which they complete the diapason; but less gentle, because he is absent lying there, because he is absent fat both are good when they are joined to it. Vts. They are sorry for the stupid lunches of the carpenters what fence asks for wine and pepper that the For the pepper is acrid, and the wine austere; gui, like the traquefextamaior&minor with the Srdiapente diapason; but neither with salt; for neither can the diatessaron be united with the sixth major or minor. And bitter sa it is similar to a tone, for it is discordant by itself scraper, and bitter by itself, a tone that is extinguished it is the origin of all consonances, thus all fruits are either sweet, feu astringent, or acids, they are more bitterly bitter, and the tone, moreover, is not worse with consonance with the tuning fork, so neither is the bitter taste unhappily joined, than with the sweet; bitter with which that taste with none. completes the diapente consonance very sweet, as in salted olives, also bitter taste He is not averse to a rich man, but he accomplishes something worse, such as in the pleasures of ex Absynthium, ouis? with cheese, and in the vines in which it was cooked uncooked. however, it degenerates from savory to fat, and when added to the diapente, it becomes the sixth major, night adeòfyauisvt diapente, but not entirely infuauis. Similarly, if the tone is added to the indeed, we sprinkled everything; therefore when the same thing is done by combining bitter with insipid, and give a river with an astringent, veiled in bitter bullets, with which nothing can be tasted more sadly. Manifest! therefore, it is best to combine this division of flavors with musical proportion come When among the flavors that meet in any way, it was twice the best flavor proportion to the worse, and the middle to the worse, one-third, the best to the middle on the other hand, it is certain that he will be the best. And indeed for the first time this was done in a fat manner bitter and insipid; It is clear that the best of them is stupid, because faith can be carried, but the false medium, we are deterred by the sharp, will therefore overcome the insipid one-half, sharp in double proportion, salt sharp in one-sixth. Again sweet co puree will perform with acrid and insipid or with sour and insipid, i. e. double sweet. or a fourfold or eightfold proportion will remain insipid, that is, through the diapason pason, or mfdiapason; But the tasteless acid will be overcome by sweetness. Another re-arrangement of combinations of flavors to refer to the meaning of each. is For these flavors, which win the greatest pleasure of the taste, merit the diapason, we can determine, half of that which concerns the ears, from the smallest sesquite of this, to enter into it less from the middle, for example, let us put it to someone austere to be especially pleasant, for no one is salty, because no animal but man, nay not even a very few plants? and they are fed with salt of their own kind, I can say that it is pleasant they are when the salty part is bitter, sir, and all the worse because it is sharp as falsity, because it is rasale My animal is fed with absinthium, although I am very bitter with a little music the entire black race" #ftate-otitur3& in the root of the worm, he is therefore as austere as fate will be I am very sweet as a terrible astringent stinging, vt let it be sweet to astringent Practically this double proportion; so, therefore, should the proper nature of music be established in proportion to the fas-
Monique, we have pleased you so far; Some yAv# vlnxes i that is, they put sweet-subacid for peratioms in f0n, being sweet in the manner of diapente, acid in the manner of tiiateifaron, with which ta- faponbuò e-n juftctis, the favorite of all consonances, that is, the most pleasing of all it is almost born of taste. It is certain that some of the cooks have to prepare so much having acquired the skill, that there should be no one's appetite prostrated, for which the harmonious preparation of food lest they should be excited, lest they should boast afterwards. , Artis Mâgna Conson Disiam
What is said about the tastes of the gods, must be said in exactly the same way about smells and touch. when the reason is the same in all. For how many different colors are there in the aspects of things it is certain that there are so many tastes and odors and touches like bile, and I certainly wonder that no one that he had been lovely, and that he had given his names to each smell, taste, and touch; with no let me see the difficulty with the scents of fin jm jn oc; for poster flavor is named by the kings themselves, viz sweet, bitter, false, sour, styptic, astringent, fatty, the taste of such and such fruit, p o siine the taste of such and such a ham, the taste of such and such bread, or cheese; in exactly the same way as Odori but the name of odoriferous things is easily applied to the poster, vr à violaceus violaceus, à pyroceus pyraceus; from aromatics, the taste of such and such spices, such and such wine, such and such a flower, and so on the rest If these things were done, I determined something exact about the nature and harmony of these senses poster Let others see the truth about this. To us a kind of surprising harmony, viti under reality it will be sufficient for all, so that the demon is hidden under the five senses in any way. KING T R V M I V; A Pathetic Symphonism or the Music of Various of the affections of the mind to iniquity. : jl ili that furrow of things Harmosta', after a man made of clay He had fashioned the proportions of his brothers, and his beautiful and well-ordered limbs if he were someone, he would find the organ most abundant in numbers, the breath of life for him He instilled, I say the spirit, or the rational soul, with a double appetite, as if two D=x torso with receptacles for ceps perpetually mobile; of which the first exparte sense man I am the source of disturbances and passions; On the other hand, vwtfxis is responsible for habits both natural and supernatural, and therefore an organ the most beautiful thing in this worldly temple just entered, the foundations of which are human body structure; List the main organs of the body, the heart, the liver, the brain; the intellectual and rational nature of the spirit or air is the vital faculty; palmulae siue tasti, vt vul they are called go, the very various pathemas, which they call the pastimes of the soul; The organ acts of reason, or of the rational appetite; true imagination, or the appetite for gratifying pastimes quick-witted and quick-witted, while in various apprehensions of evil or good, solicitous of passions turamjid, who is unskilled in the art, while he does not properly arrange the consonants of the distones he knew, in place of a certain harmonically ridiculous blasphemous and intolerable to the ears he makes a concert; For when all the humors of the body are tempered, that each one is contained in its place, is in harmony; indeed, when they are moved in this way, as in a crowd I will destroy the sites of the evil ones, and destroy others; We do not want our sa is not judged, when all its parts and faculties hold their place, neither they rise up against the right judgment of reason by the fact that the inferior acts encroach upon the superior; Let me explain the cause of this consonance-dissonance branch When therefore the paslions of the soul have their principal seats in the principal parts of the human heart It is certain that they have a pore in their members, an imagination for the quality of the object which they apprehend He says, the spirits are in the limbs of all vital motions, as if there were moisture in them I will give to awaken those who are awakened either to love or its opposite, hatred; to joy or
to move to sadness, to compassion or revenge, and to indignation. And The same thing happens in the spirits as in the strings that are variously stretched, for the greatest they have endured the tension, even the most acute sound of the cholera; they make the answer. But where have they been more remiss, so much so that they utter a more serious melancholy? they answer tem, and thus the intermediate temperament of the phlegmatic and sanguine also of the middle tones experience teaches us to answer; for I soon grasped the perspicaciousness of my soul it roars more vehemently, the vital spirits, excited by it, are soon excited and agitated; from the drive but the movements are now rapid, now slow, only frequent or rare, and now relented and intermittently, now it is necessary to produce other and other differences of sharpness and gravity; when, indeed, fantasy, if not correct; He is supported by the judgment of reason, let him be blind and impetuous, the same for him that to a man unacquainted with beating the organ, he who solicits the frets, and with the sharp, high-pitched let him mix the sounds, because yet by this art, that is, by the dictation of right reason, only human; man he has failed to organize them, instead of consonance, he brings forth a disgraceful discord, and the whole of the mind tis destroys the harmony- Porrò with a concupiscible appetite partly in the heart, partly in the liver, in part in the brain, in part in the liver; hence imagination moved by an irascible object; it trembles with the most violent motion, the pulses of the spirits are disturbed by the agitation, and ijf pro they are rendered like pigs; but while the sad objects are agitated by the rur imagination, the spirit will carry them around coming to the brain with fear of the mind, they induce pallor, for the spirit is dense with such affection as he is, he returns; thus, while in the heat of sensual love there, the spirits, having been sent from the brain, heart, and liver into the genital vessels, there produce movements amorously similar to affection, as will be explained later. The same with the affections of let it be the judgment of the troubles of the pei. Since then all the disturbances of the soul, the spirit of the soul let them touch with evil motions, and make them, according to different affections, either quick or slow pulsations, it is certain that if we were permitted to listen to such pulsations, nothing else if we were not the most dissonant numbers of productions produced by the sensitive appetite to be perceived Indeed, they are in harmony with the most, if they have been in accordance with the judgments and artifices of reason completed But let us show the glass more clearly; Let us examine the essence of man's bile. tis pulse, and we shall find that it is the same, apart from the usual, large, deep, and rapid frequent violent; For anger has a twofold consideration; he sought revenge, at the beginning of which the mind is gathered into the fence, from the very object af made, and after the manner with a violent and strong attack to the exterior, and rushes into the object, vt either flight or the pursuit of revenge. On the other hand, with the aforesaid mind-move let the blood also be moved at the same time by the heart, and to the externals, that it may help the soul itself it is called Wherefore it happens, that the anger of many is nothing else, but a kind of effulgence of the blood itself the snow is considered to be worshiped around; which, indeed, the movement will be as violent as the amount of blood and the agitation of the spirit became more turbulent. But if you explore the pulse of a man who is carrying joy mus, we shall find him to be markedly altered for the greatness of his joy, which: if moderated as it will produce large, slow, rare and controlled pulses; for a happy heart is abroad throughout the world the body is diffused, and because of that movement it acquires a certain intensity, with which it pulses it is increased; and consequently the itching of the spirits, which are moderately trembling, affects this kindly If indeed the lassitude is uncontrolled and excessive, the chickens will completely escape the weak and Artu Magnò Confini tz)
How mind through passions commit there Bone pulse says affection even Chicken man we are litigated AnU Conson Disson tingling, whence the total dissipation of vital spirits, destruction (fixed of those who too many Latins died, various histories) as a result, it is necessary. Opposites of sadness
He makes a full pulse of the meadows, few, of course, slow and rare. suffocate the heat of the enemy's pathos because of the trampling of the spirit and the blood, and the cold of the whole Tiftitia: for the rigor of the body, therefore the excess of Latin is sure to be suffused with the dissipation of the spirits, itàeorundé I was it is necessary to perish by suffocation, overwhelmed by excessive sadness, for the string is indeed too tight he is broken, he is too slack to be able to move; It is clear from these that the difference between ir and fear, 'inii'; for the anger of the spies retreats as they go, and with the blood they pour out completely to the exterior, and Now they are gradually kindled, as if they seemed to be breathing vengeance: but retreat in fear indeed they give, but they do not withdraw; in anger the spirits are agitated around the heart. - in More trampled down as if suffocated but fresh, especially if it has been more violent, rapid, turbulent, vibrating, disordered, makes them unequal; whence they disturb the mind and agitate here and there, --you might say nature-- with which he prides himself on the He will allow himself to be ashamed, yet shame is a much more harmonious movement than fear, even though he retreats let every spirit be spared by the shameless sa brings the exiled spirit and heat from the center to the circumference, where soon His face was handsomely flushed with a handsome blush, and he was ready to be applauded and applauded in return suffocation of the spirit of victory. You see, therefore, such a disturbance of the faculty of being irascible, such as is caused by obstinacy If this is consonant with the perception of the mental disturbance, it is consonant with the passion; dissonant, if dissonant obietiumSie m obietim; for while the mind judges the thing to be shunned, it is clothed with this very thing When the animal's spirits are raised to the brain, and the vitals to the heart, it happens together. flow, hiding the injured person with the ability to hide, and fleeing the death itself great and varied, and such as we said a little before, the changes of the pulses, of the faculties they follow more attentively.
whence it is carried In general, the system of emotions has its origin from the agitation of ne-heat and spirits, phan- quinturproportionales Adeòvt if we are in each of the perturbations, the pulse would be perfectly clear, we could tell perfectly about the inner harmony of man, to discern a man's affections by his pulse. It is true that this harmony of pulses me let it become clear and clear, the greatest of all perturbations, Amorcinquam-, di it must be done, for since he has all the other passions complicated here, I hope it will be yt born through harmonious reasons. Let us better conceive of Love. to the baton origin his mouth so oh: tn. you go I love AOifica Results you die jiu:
Of unca yf you die.
Death, therefore, as it is a kind of disturbance of the mind, can only be in a change of state sus, as many have been persuaded by the example of Erasistratus to beat their arteries in love; Ga yet the gentle man teaches from the labor, no love to the dust of the post, but a pulse in the love tisalterationé exsolis recited with the passions of joy, sadness, anger and the remnants of cotingerC; for the matter of Jitsolliciti was full of fear and love, and in the manner of others was disturbed it will be exhausted by affections, although it has no proper or particular property, that is, appetite let it be, that it obtains a pulse, yet the pulse has family members, of course those whom it has provided, the passion of the soul, which at the same time was united to love. For those who love melancho In such a way that those who suffer from sadness are overcome, or they are disillusioned with great sadness, they become angry, they are afraid; by which it happens that such pulses grow in themselves, such as they were, with which the mind flourishes at that time passions, for this is very familiar to love, nor should we say Torios pulsates with pulsations of sadness, if&yinuidia, because they are mere and distinct disturbances, postpone nothing; indeed, it is certain, and confirmed by experience, that the pulse is in the lover
angry Lih. X. Nature of the Decachord. ins to be angry with another, than simply in anger, much another in a melancholic lover
ct suppressed multitudes, as in a simple and simple man: they increase their love, so that even short-lived fear or any other affliction the joint love lasts until now, and continues, vtsiperinterualla; you touch the pulse, it is easy to find that the same change persists for a long time; moreover, since love is desire in the end of beauty, it is associated with many of the passions of the soul, any anger of which he has a companion attached to him, or to pursue, which if He hopes that Iztum will be pleased; or to flee, which is sad and troublesome: Sure Indeed, the passions of the soul should not be contrary to each other, and produce opposites in the pulse, (USL'1 those onanturinquales&araTai, such as we find in vt- hence from this chapter the ancients established the amorous pulse. From this also it is clear, not from another source the love of Erasistratus of Antiochus, by which he lost Stratonicella the Queen, Mot. us You have never known this kind of wretchedness and dissonant-consonant movement. with a healthy pore existing, it cannot be done, there should be unequal and disordered pulses, unless when their affections have increased, how many are capable of this kind of change to buy For who, I pray thee, rejoices in the passions of the soul, but a lover? maybe latina and joy, unless the lover is sad? who ever does evil and you are happy or bo-tiusaman" does he fear, unless he loves? It is not surprising, therefore, if the proper pulse of love is leamusinqualeni this side of the morbid cause, who either by memory or sight it is adeò heats up i vt can be recuperated by feverish pulses. For indeed Au in- Amoris in- Eenna feels that this love is born of the contagion of the blood, and that the idea of an alternative lack of re-sensibility comes from it quie: For when the blood is strong from the fever, it passes six hours in the slime, which: one day in bile, which brings two melancholy, sometimes also delirium and insanity, filling with excessive heat and spirit, drying and disturbing the brain. What autodautio Quot dem languor, or bile, or black bile, by occupying the brain too much, for these three are of the kind? species m e n ti. r species, ca u fa: i If verò lovers are tormented with scorched blood, then shed for they burst into laughter, they gesticulate with song, they exult in dancing, they promise wonderful things about themselves, to flaunt every custom; But those who have a burning gall are easily angered there, they rush into the pits, and carry themselves away. But if the bile is pressed black, mceretper- they imagine for you, and if indeed those humors derineamurin the heart, distress They make peace; ideò usually sounds, modulations, and love songs Tonjs in the praise of the thing from the mate delight in love, lightness and medicine for his motor which renters Hmc also frequent sighs, groans, half voices, lamentations, lachiy- hiccups and other things of that kind: quietness to promote and alleviate the misery of the soul, Gesture then to be moved by the sympathy of those who are loved in faith, while the heat of the smoke it ascends to the lower parts, and there the soul is occupied, they are despondent and confined below, etc. the subject, while he thinks of his beloved, is restrained from breathing; then sighs, while after ma- When the pet is breathing, the breath is worse, but when the brain is compressed, the fluid flowing from the eyes is the cause tears; bitte also the languor of the whole body like the lipothymia of a lover; Indeed, two the mind and virtue of the lover turn the wheel towards the thing beloved, the exteriors are abandoned as a pair of resin I am here that the body languishes and falls; while he thinks only of the thing he loves, and is indifferent to everything else and inert, I will go Lovers only become anxious, shrewd, and cunning about things; Will he utter the flow of the most turbulent passions, by which the lover is continually agitated? opposite) he works easily and despairs, hates and loves, is saddened by lethargy, rejoices and grieves, laughs and cries, momsatre- this thought will come; nay, what is more surprising, he loves and hates the beloved at the same time, hates him as a thief I was a murderer, yet because of the brightness and beauty of the beloved one is forced to love:
At the same time he is pleased with this agreement, he wants to love and does not want to love, because he does not want to die; he would like to love, because he thinks he is worthy of love; yet he suffers himself to be kidnapped and killed vt is taken redjmatur, and occifusque reuiuiscat. Of all these Hhh lovers to cure of that ya contracritascaufa vnicaest, .various heats and fpirits driven by the imagination they love each other. Indeed, in reducing the temperature, there is no more effective means
the flowery musician mine si musanti hiimnrnm. 'fnirituùmdtie Ctimmntirtfif
Art Magne Finini Dìjjont Of the harmonic fascination of Love.
ii l yascinus mantis The genius of almost all philosophers is to be admired, that effect of reciprocal love a sequence in which we see the two between fc, or at the first aspect, so closely connected vtab they can scarcely be any more. Frequent youth or of other men's fellow-men) surrounds many eyes, and does not use who strikes there is one who prefers, who is surrounded by friendship, one who is also unknown and never before with force sis, pra? let him soothe the anxious mind of all: they are indeed in the same group: more, purer in one certain front, some beautiful and beautiful: some deformed in body; another well-behaved, and of good manners; it is done, however, as ex of these only one pleases, one perishes, and no other, even be more beautiful and better given to morals; where? indeed, complacency is sometimes reciprocated, sometimes fi lest by reciprocation he should exert his force on another who is also reluctant. For every reason The Platonists, indeed, were all inquisitive; In the manner of the Platonists, I praise him in the fafeinum they conjecture Qua? omniaFicinuspulchrèPhgdri&Lysiaz he declares by example: Lyphias says, Phaedrus's face shines, Phaedrus sparkles in the eyes of his people it fixes the eyes, and transmits the spirit with sparks, etc. Radius Phaedrus ray lyfa fa cile is joined jspirit also to spirit fac ile c is milked, a vapor of this kind d kneel in the heart of Phaedrus tus Lyfi&slatim asks for precordia from, whose dullness becomes duller, and in the former Phaedrus rela- bitter-blooded} itdvtPhaedra's blood becomes iamin's heart of Lyfia} Hence the cry of ccseHimpro- how fascinating explain there Phaedrus Lyphixm, because the bloody humor, v as proper pofiulatsua seat demands', True Lyfias Phaedrumse is more ardent, for the heart is more easily at the end of the smallest particle of its humour, than humor itself is at the end of its own heart, for it is more like a river than a fountain, as a fountain rejoices, The Platonists, therefore, cause the fascination of love through the eyes, which if the visual rays they bind their eyes, is it most false, when according to the principles of optics? ray not outside the eyes, but from the object ls. ctisjpsis are emitted into the visual potential. How, then, is this kind of fascination con let's explain.
It must be known, therefore, that there is some remarkable similarity in the temperament of men How uncertain spiritumfanguinifqucftilorior agitation founded. love between reformans! is given everywhere in correspondence, he follows this manner of action likeness of the nose; whereas indeed like is like, the natural appetite, according to the companionship in man it happened to them that, in the strings of a stringed instrument, which it resonates Therefore, any one who has been formed in a common partnership will be able to do something else The reason why it is immediately taken for this or that, and not for another, is that the pulse of the spirits con citation of water, in which exactly the same actions and morals proceed, eoru- which steps, while he conforms to himself in the eyes above all, and to his outward actions, It is not surprising that they should present a correspondence, if another has a similar temperament, a similar pulse betrayed by the stirrings of a thousand spirits, soon to be aroused even at the first sight of this, and in love, they were accustomed to burn in the thing most identified with them; Additionally, this to be more and more violently excited by reciprocal love and widening through the eyes of the eyes which are around the goats, the passages break out outside,
let's children to breathe etc. X. Nature of the Decachord.
and let there be a very subtle exchange of blood, and a sharing of spirits, what manners, what manners to inseparable friends it produces the most dissonant effects; hence the fearful ones in the absent woes squeamish, scornful, with indignation and the most ardent zeal, Ia lpesjincompoiiti gestures, complaints, nightmares, continuous moaning, and other lovers- delirium teeth. When, indeed, the emotions of the pulsations of the vital spirits are the agitations themselves how much; it will diverge according to the laws of the pulses, and the emotions will diverge according to the excitements of the spirits in the absence of each they are agitated, for while one is loved with anxiety, the other with zeal and fear, iiusfpe confidence, the other is dealt with in the opposite way by desperation, let it be from a dissimilar affection a mixture of ctions, and the most discordant mourning is born to every one; which, however, in con- the of the vnisones soon after they were again present, it degenerates. For friends His presence immediately fills the heart of both with the greatest joy, the heart dilated by the spirit in union worries, and it becomes a result of an uneven pulse and an uneven agitation of the spirit, just like that by a kind of reciprocity of the beloved thing is born the fruit of the Oiamorisscope and the final end, Corollary I It is clear that this energy of Love, especially in the same age and the same temperament that is to say, to be observed with constant blood, and to report the most perfect vnison. Hence, of equal age, sanguincusfanguineu, - choleric, choleric, phlegmatic phlegm matic, melancholic loves melancholic; and they agree with each other because they harmonize the quality of the pulses and the agitation of the water; as it was said. An old man with a blood-tempered child will acquire a watery, pulsating pulse; agitation to the child corresponding to him, in a double proportion, that is, the diapason between they were divided by him; A child condescends to a young man in the diapente; because they have a watery temperament of one and a half times; these in proportion consonant with the A boy to the mild Choleric in the treble, to the Melancholic in the quate He is incited in a double proportion: Whosoever, therefore, is a perfect fan in whatever he plows because the internal agitation of the spirits will impress such and such a proportion on the external man I can't see the character, as soon as they see themselves working in that hidden harmonic proportion let them not love, which love will indeed be so much more ardent, the more harmonious the proportion between the two he was more perfect. Whenever the said men, they had a pulse at once awkward and at least vulnerable, then these such and so discordant in character- Vndenaka- They paint the exterior of a man with plaster of paris, even if at first sight they are repulsed, to tolerate they are not at all strong; Hence that great dissonance arose from time to time between men, with a hidden cause there; where the one cannot support the other at all, and although they are not enemies, not even a single cow let them have the power of aversion, yet they are continually averse to faith. There are those who push the tone they sound like the choleric with the phlegmatic, the sanguine with the melancholic. For from different temperaments the agitation of the spirits, and the pulsation are completely divided together noses and incompatible; they depict the body, a manifest indication of discordant behavior and actions; such Nor. only among men of the opposite) temperament, but also among men of different races perishes; the choleric children and the morose can bear the least; Hymns of the young and the old they threaten the melancholic, and so on. Therefore, what kind of character does one have? It surrounds the shaper of behavior and actions, to which it is similar in harmony, and likewise someone else had someone, statin or at first glance or radiation for they will harmonize the reciprocal, if they are dissonant, they will dissonate. It is not the same as in mothers It is usual for the fetus to be pregnant, in which the whole is perfected with the whole, and the individual part. with-parts harmony and vispjastic confession according to the species of the mighty image-tum in the vte-
do not be brute love the question of how is born To whom be morloued conceived by reason, and with the help of the spirits he marks them in the shape of the foetus reason, by which the nerve moves only that which is similar and comparable to itself. See the truth, why? We have given more detail about this harmony in the Magnetic Art in I. 3. c. Think about magnetism tion
Whatever, then, from the circle of beauty, from sensible things to the spirit of the soul and the inner mother, hence we have said, in turn, through the spirits to the bodily senses, the same. you understand the beauty of beauty, or of love; for at first the force of external beauty he strikes the outer sense, especially the view, from the poet. excited, the spiritual beauty of spiritual things, (which we have said to be nothing else a certain harmonious proportion in the movements, limbs, and actions of the character which was fixed by conspiracy) will stir the spirit of the beholder, who will soon recover his appearance soul? does it also communicate, as the intrinsic concert of the thing perceived? a concert let it affect the internal especially and the form of the perceiver in equal proportion: And impress the beautiful images of things, so? in which form the spirit is disturbed by the prince, and the external senses again by the spirit; where it appears again soon a greater precipice from the nobler senses to the more ignoble, from smell to taste, from hearing and sight to the unholy touch, and from there progress to the ultimate pleasure in the degree of a philosopher, as a form of extreme madness or madness; Doctors for election They take the image of disease or concubinage, so that the common people shamefully heart it for the highest voluptuousness He waits for the accumulation of bliss in the state and absolute love. Moreover, loving these things in reality the transformation of man is fostered and nourished, either by affection, or by manners, actions, desires, etc with these and all other conditions of life, with which the lover of the person he loves should be safe I try to be as similar to him as possible, and to imitate him as much as possible in all things. for it is nothing more powerful than similar things, and what? they only like each other, loved ones wax, and the lyre in all lyres? to accomodate him: for from these things there is no love ta rcamation emanat; scd, reciprocal transformation transirufq; one into the other perfectly most important This love is generally between the young and the temperament of the blood, as I said mouse, is found For the likeness of your hairs, and the constitution of your body to love, are mutual they arouse the harmony of love. Sicholericus amet choiericum, indeed they are consonant as vt di we are, but in an intolerable kind of servitude; because and if the similitude of the complexion makes love mutual, yet the bilious power of love is often disturbed by anger; Among the bloody, choieri when you say at the same time, for his own sake, and the permissiveness of his sharp humour, is it a kind of vexation? and grace? , of pain and pleasure; but the condition of the choleric is better, because the sanguine is more agreeable and let it be more popular; this is done, as from the mutual syncopation of the dissonants a consonant is rendered. In thrice bloody and melancholy is a firm knot, and we are not pitiful: for blood who with sweetness moderates the bitterness of the melancholic, and it is better to do so with Melan choleric But between Choiericus and Melancholicus there is a most miserable love; Cholera for anger, bitterness, murder and impatience, melancholy to the greater extent and provokes a perpetual complaint.
Corollary. This is why absent lovers suffer such abnormal symptoms, vfquc ad pallor and squalor; while at first the mind of the lover is constant about the beloved he is engaged in wandering, and digests his food less perfectly, and the greater part of it is superfluous. it is thrown out, the smaller one, and indeed it is still raw and drawn to the liver. Where until it was not perfectly done tis is worked out, little and not the best blood is diffused through the veins; so poverty rawness Whence the pallor of thy nourishment, thine limbs and pallor. The other reason for that matter is that the spirit (who a vehicle, a soul, and a unique instrument exists) to the beloved's fantasy image? drunkenness through the overfant he constantly cries out, and there he is refined. Qgarèad to repair, fre- who
The great art of Conson tz- Disson Quisamor in three times; of coplexion people n loving bus Lib. X, Decachord Nature.
It is most necessary to work with the fuel of the purest blood: but with the purer blood of the Just the members are left with loose, spotted, thicker and more tender nutrition; so the heart dries up pus and squalor, and the melancholic lover flees, because of that fat, bloody thief born melancholy; where? while it fills the head with its vapours, the brain will be stuck, and the bones will fall. and he worries the soul with horrible images; whence the change of the pulses, and the greatest ir regular breathing movements; to which also various, as to the instruments of vital action Are the kinds of emotions born? Corollary. III. And he also asserts that the Musician is the most powerful of all to cure the diseases of love; since most of the euadans are melancholic; the mats are hidden; become someone through the proportioned harmony, that gross melancholia. he would dissolve the mass of blood, that former lover in harmony; would restore the temperature; vti above in book p. i. we taught It is also clear from this, perhaps more fluent than it was equal to the discourse, that no one knew perfectly well The temper and inclination of men is only external to their behavior and actions conformably, to be able to render himself agreeable and lovable to all; thine state, and above all in acquiring the friendship of the Prince, to be of greater strength. . I I I On JppetittM rational harmony. As in the previous Appetite of tyranny, and its first effects in men having explained it, it remains that we should run parallel to the music of the rational mind: Appeti subject to frequent and turbulent airs, it gives birth to dissonances, except in We will accordingly make him unskilled in organizing; therefore, as the organ renders music om with these numbers the absolute, the expert organist must be sharpened, the appetite is the paleness of the reason nal, fiuè the dictation of right reason, for this passions i neon feeling d um he tames, while he has put reins on the lower appetite, by bridging it to the rational will, what else does it do, except that the strings which are more than xqiio strained or slackened bring them back to mediocrity cat, by assembling the disjointed consonants to the right, they form a beautiful concert. But in order that this may be done, the consent of the soul itself is necessary. I am sure that I will give you an immense amount we feel the torture of the loris from the continuous resolution of the solution, and the soul, D. issonanf'a care v turtu untempered from the rebellion of the lower appetite incurs; for these things are to be considered rationally the framework of motions being loosed, it endures immense punishments and tortures, of which indeed and all the senses and all the limbs, as it were, languished, which they owed to the king themselves, they feel Therefore the Soul is to be cured by true philosophy, and constant con- reparation, by sacrifices, and by the use of suitable expiations, vt sic sa Restored to strength, established by truth, freed from the forebodings of the faithful, nothing of the form of those who are angry give an attack of convulsions; but agreeing with himself, with the rest of them caque smokes from all the defenses of growth; where, however, he disagrees with himself, viz It cannot be done, unless every disordered person is silenced by his passions Augustine the Great, I was a punishment, fled, indeed, by honesty, the order was disturbed, true exiles the peace which; there is the tranquility of the order of things, discordant against the rough and unpleasant, are disturbance, restlessness, inconstancy, affliction, and various kinds of torments in rising up; from which temperance of the mind is the best harmony of all the virtues is destroyed because Since then the virtues of the soul; should they be pleasures, and remedies for diseases? they are necelse, when health and amusement, or unless they are born of consonants, indeed beautiful
Artu MagnaConsonì Difiani they must be in harmony with each other. For as we said above, with the health of the body, of their humors- that what pertains to the substance of the body be in a perfect harmonious temperament the enjoyment of which is in proportion to the power with the subject; the greater the proportion,
so much greater is the delight, and the same is constituted of the fan and the entertainer, both from Apollo for the inventor of the harp and medicine, not only of the body, but also of the soul? you will draw power; That if an artificial harmony of such a kind to remind the soul will prevail, such as in various places We have already described; certainly the harmonious nature must be considered a much more excellent poll the law, as artificial in the proportion &temperance of the medicine to the contrary, & with it consists in the physical properties to which they are attributed, while in their intermixture it insists and Ani-conical weights are used; not otherwise the virtues, which are certain medicines for the soul, mz medica, they are, they must be moderated, both with each other, and with the soul, viz. OTentij they must be harmoniously tempered, and suitably connected with each other, as indeed connection is impossible without harmonic harmony, for it is safe to call it harmony The issue, Boethius testifies, is the concord of equal and disparate voices reduced to one; thus harmo nia, perfecting the soul, is a concert of equal and disparate virtues reduced to one There are different virtues, liberality, faith, thrift, hope, contemplation and concern the work of rites in the frequent service, many such things; that nevertheless all con they sound, above the charity and love of God and the neighbor, as if above the base, the root, Himself modulation, the double modulation of the virtues is to be considered later, the one by which each in the radical vir safe, which we do not undeservedly call justice, and it is common to the just, which that virtue, lest it should exceed or fall short, we balance and weigh as it were in a balance by addition and subtraction he continued to search for the mean, which he gave to another prudent secretion, another to say temperance. But the second of all the virtues with the same concert of charity and love of God or neighbor, or both together there is a kind of beautiful modulation of the grudges, for this charity is like a condiment with which let us moderate and moderate all the virtues, let every work be good in M Every symphony we address to the Author: With this mind led by the spirit of the day, we move the ancients sending forth the lyre, GOD through heaven (for it is necessary to approach like to like) How is it linked together? therefore, if a man desires to be divine, he must be, as his spirit co ksdem imbued with that spirit; and we make the spirit in harmony with that divine one can really through synthesis and obedience always murmuring against evil, and supplicating for good then peace and tranquillity most harmonious, afterwards restlessness of heart and mind while the swiftest runner and flight follows, next to it, the way of the commander I ran to yours when you opened my heart It is true that in the care of the body the proportion of antidotes is not only to the opposite, but scribiturpTr" the method of applying it harmoniously to the same body is sought; coming to procure the harmony of souls should be provided in proportion, and with the virtues of the perteâîoné they are more competent to secure some and others, and each one will procure for himself those to which he is faithful Genius, nature, nay, the highest distributor of things himself, has brought it to his senses; promoting the soul has progressed threefold in that most important class of virtues, which Piotus first spoke of written and celebrated by all the wise, namely political, purgatory, etc the most perfect lyre, stirring up the sweetest harmony in us. of this cytha- r refer to the proslambanomena chord Political race, root foundation of cy thar, that is, the lowest string; Heroic, indeed, hyperbole, because the highest thus he refers to a very sharp voice. The Vtirgatmm type has a meses ratio in the pentede- gang; From the prostambanome chord to the mesem the diapason is established, and from there to the net hyperbole another diapason, and in every way a perfect harmony; à proslambanome- no to hypatemefpn, diapente; to lychanon hypaton, diatestaron; to net diazeugme no, diapason with diapente, to the net hyperboleon fine diapason, sit cceteres as appears in the following figure. wind, nrlh: -o? lv i Lib. X Devachordon nature,
t IftiU naìsš'io r Heroic Divine Love Conccmpbtion. Contempt of the world. ifinOid'. iUpnn. Dm Humility
i orioH. ziin vniiaciyt
z ti ovvi. Vito: Revenge.
But shall we apply this to the guitar? mysticism? : Man, then, is the foundation of civil virtues to ascend to the purgative virruteselatus, to complete the first diapason interval it seems, but from this to the heroic virtues another tuning fork has been brought into harmony with me with the rest of the virtues he produces confumatissimani; Indeed, you give virtues to citizens growth, prudence, and consultation; the dictation of reason is committed to something, temperance, purgative temperance, chastity Patience, Humility, the said motions do not curb so much, fed even completely exterminated only the presence of the empress's rational appetites was sufficient to crush them let it be done; by which virtues indeed the mind is free from disturbances, most temperate in He returns the instrument. Politics? for the virtues compose the exterior of men, that is it is the foundation of the first degrees of harmony; Purgatory? by the first tuning fork they clear the spi- Harmony the rite, and as the whole is harmonious, they render it neat. Heroic? but with the mind of the virtues let them close at the last concert, with the irtelligents, and so much so that GOD is man himself for as the philosopher rightly says, men are made by man protect excellence; And Plotinus, the study of the Heroic, says, is also a wish, not only I had experienced sin, but I knew that it was God, and I found it, when I proceeded with the matter we turn back, whence we proceeded, then we finish the perfect diapason, in which tone he said, in the same one from which he had departed, the degree of closing, vt is agreed upon by the musicians; So you see in the present scheme, in which way the Soul begins to turn to Justice itself, a little- tim through harmonic degrees and to reach that love of the disdiapaphon of the vanities, the center of the entire harmonic system; we can tame the soul, show it, but end that harm we can achieve a kind of peace and happiness of the soul on this earth, through this harm the archetype of the harmony of God it is done I say that with DEVS the first rule of all contingencies is controlling, -neces--vnamnr sariò semper concin nuscssimò that one& harmonious virtue essper than all'nia con- deo. they come and are returned ready. Hence the sacraments are ordered as a sacred thing? Sc rtx-ma, where; um epe man is led into debt with the god in concert. Cnnu, Sacrament In fact, baptism has been granted to the sacred being, it is thereby washed, with the power of efficacy. nuns of the sacrament instituted by Christ God is warm. I told Artit Confini Moreover, man disobeys, and falls short of the daily operations, in which according to the law prescribed, the wheel of the mind, nor the whole soul òngnes Wes consonant, vndèdefe- daily stress and dissonance; To restore the Soul, then, to its own harmony, sa The cremation of penitence was instituted as a means of conversion to the Holy Spirit and the mind and the efficacy of absolution are disjointed. Because it is true of everyday life Eucharist by the irritations of the gluttony man is most divided; The sacrament of the Eucharist was given, the source of all spiritual harmony for we repair that which is infected with the contagious odor of flesh, and the body of humility We arrange that our marriages should be joined and configured to the body of their power by the procreation of the offspring the flesh is disfigured and disfigured, that Sacrament of the Mother The confirmation of anjmufquecurrenda the way of the commandments, the lord is strengthened. Extreme Vengeance man from all contamination and all that is left, free from dissonance, into absolute con-
The extreme concordance is asserted in the Holy Chrismate of the Sacrament of the Order, while Christ in ction the Vicar of the earth is established, all the most perfect harmony through justice, and power He makes the state handed down to him by the gods resound in the minds of men. You see, then, how a man cleansed and adorned by the sacraments frequents the streets the exercise of your virtues stripped of all dissonance, with a perfect fymphony and excrement, tura with God, and conspires with his neighbour, Ordo è rush!
A, . rn REGI S T R V M VII-
Any t The symphony of the world's political fiucde Music Cliiii Just so in one physical body, the harmony and union of the members the mind brings forth and completes its harmonious actions, and the same members with the same spirit gather together one empire, while the power of one or more the state governs, commands, provides for everyone, makes laws; it strengthens harmony, and human harmony necessary for society is carried out, it shares trade, activities and friendships with these precepts, which either nature or necessity suggests, he should bring them inviolably; the most beautiful in this political world, a world completely analogous to the one described a little before, harmoniously Harmoniously, he brings them down; and just as in the faiths and tibijs and the song itself there is a certain tenen- Polish a mixture of distinct sounds, which my trained ears cannot bear unchanged and discrepant they are, and in this concert a harmony is nevertheless produced by the moderation of the most dissimilar voices matching thus from the highest, the lowest, the middle, interspersed with orders and sounds, moderated and by what reason the city was constituted by the consent of the most dissimilar? harmony à Musicis is said in song, that is the harmony in the Republic of the City, the closest and best in everything The bond of the safety of the republic, which can be no compromise of fine justice. Justice but unless by the authority of some one who has supreme power, its effect, as Tullius testifies, it cannot follow- As many species of the Republic there are, there must be as many supreme powers, in every way; Just as in one physical body, one that impe rat soul, one controller of vital operations diffused throughout the body, no. In the two Republics; in Mudus one DEVS who with his ineffable providence all things in him, controlled the concert marTdebet! tur St directs; but in the Republic two powers are supreme, equal power and im- It is not possible to become superior administrators; since the last in the silo order does not add to the previous one let him send, the snow will be fubordied to something, if you establish two, already discordant body politic it is in the gates, while the civil body is divine, from one of the two that there should be a Republic, it is necessary. Nor prevents the supreme power from admitting the administrators and distributors to the plural; for these not fupremamfed one all, vt be in Aristocracy and Democracy, has power; The monarch is now Monarchy, in truth, is the power of all things, with which the rest, who or that Re- Lib. X. Nature of the Decachord.
If the state controls the principality or the kingdom through the parts entrusted to it, they will perish; fuamq'; Rex through the ministries of superiors, not unlike the soul? through the whole body and the soul He exercises his authority as if by means of certain instruments; Safe harmony it consists in this only, that every string or pipe always gets louder and louder, or sharper and sharper oflauts or tonally fon a new melody is born. Hence the supreme harmony of things, and that great system of harmony in the world with an indescribable variety of registers he had created, like the Archichoragus, for each one and to all creatures, the heavens, the elements, animals, trees, springs and rivers, you image and the rest, which he did by works, I was the chiefs of the race and set up the ranks; governing We see the necessity of this in almost all classes of natural things; man as long as it is born, nor perishes, it needs another to direct it; One rules all living things man; the man himself is in him a deified part soul, in the soul itself two parts, irascible;
they must submit to the dictation of a feeble reason. Among the members of the body there is one pra? - cfpuum, at whose discretion all the rest are moved, whether it be the head or something else, the brain Example kindred heart: In this agreement, the angel is the prince, the spirits are the spirit; to the stars the star, the demon, the demon, the bird, the beast, the serpent, the serpent, I know that over the fishes, over men, he made a man, who is the Incarnate Word, Christ IE- SVS and let it come to rule) to rule, to submit, to be ruled, and to be governed by the nature of law? and the humane of the Gentiles, and the citizen entirely agreeable; certainly with the wonders of this world composed of the four elements, of opposite spiritual and corporeal qualities It is a matter of subsistence, unless it be brought together by a certain harmony and symmetry of subordination tur, and with certain laws of selection and government to moderate the most beautiful of these worlds it will be necessary to consume the body of the monk; for the parts could not be so diverse to perpetrate it, if they were to accomplish their works by a promiscuous and indifferent government of tongues; without power equal to power meeting perpetual discord and irreconcilable dissension should he possess everything, a stranger? where? he does not know how to rule, they disagree, to his own destruction it would hurt Order indeed is necessary in all things, as Boniface beautifully related by Gratian; From the order of the Is this, he said, a newspaper of dispensation? by promise, he established that there should be different degrees and orders they would spend their love; true concord would be made, out of diversity a concoction, right the administration of each individual's duties was carried out. For the University could not do otherwise to subsist on reason, unless such a great order of dissensions had struck it. Because it is true nor can a creature be governed, or live, in one and the same quality, heaven He sets us the example of these wars: for while there are Angels, there are also Archangels, who although they are not of the same kind in power and order, it is known for certain that one differs from the other: as it were for it was also said above that from different tones faithful to the symmetry of intensity, sound the sweetest, with notes, middles, and sharps combined, the sweetest melody is born. Society in the Republic of the commanding and the obedient; for a long time, of the poor; Noble-. of the plebeians; There are doctors, artists, and that kind of people of different degrees For what is lacking in one voice is supplied by another, and what is lacking in one voice is communicated by another: for neither can good harmony be born from the strings of one tone, or from the instrument whose all extended in vnilon? they are faith. Thus the Republic could not exist at all, if lest they should be of the same kind; This harmonious equality appears from the very different states, which the divine providence established men, while another reached the highest summit of the wise- for matter another in ignorance: in the abyss, the beasts are scarcely at a distance; another to every generation of virtues stuffed to spin; that another is endowed with no ornament of the mind; Another item I stand at the top of the standings. one to the summit of dignity, another to incitement and the lowest poverty, another to abound, need another, another rich, another poor, another perpetual flow of delights and riches We see one enjoying himself, another living a miserable life with constant toils. why then t live lii I will wonderful break-up bution of things in niun do Harmony smelled of the pole tic Rep. coni fly in obe- saturday di(ormn Prin take the facieéda disharmony P. eip. in which coaiìstac The Religion of the Real public compare eat dinner cafeteria Artis Conjom Lisiom Has not the goodness of God made all of the watery condition? This iniquitous mortal is strong An objection to us, who impiously denying all providence, let all things happen by accident are passed Why am I against them, why the worker himself does not make all the animals Ange los, or all the planets, the Sun; or all the members of the ocylok, if they were all frames the eyes, where the hands, where the feet, where the mouth, the stomach, and other bodily members. all the planet Sun, whence the Moon, taking up the birth of the stars, will give birth to us? where
Mars strengthening, Jupiter leveling, Mercury sharpening, Saturn consolidating, Venus connecting more? And if all animals are angels, where is man the special image of God? where horses carrying m Where are the oxen and the ewes of the human food minister? where the animals and cattle, which were produced for the adornment of the world and for the service of man. Just like that aiones consonance, if any instrument were net or hypate, mese or pa ramese or something huiulmodiisvipwrs, with equal and different chords or vo food, as the harmony of the world requires, is generated by consonance; If indeed, all Docto- the things, the wise, the princes, the ancients, it would be necessary for the world to perish; you talents, professions, in this diverse fortune, the political symphony of the world the mouse consists primarily, and as in the structure of the human body, different members are different sisicijsdestined for one good, they conspire for the good consciousness of the individual: thus the various political members of the world to conspire for the safety and repair of the Republic they must Wherefore the beauty of the whole human race is in the variety of individuals. which the most diverse supreme director, in one mystical body under Christ He drew harmony. That the harmony of the Apolitical body of the world, such elegance and It was hired with great care, so that no treacherous person could be found. Therefore, to these different natures, various gifts are aligned, each according to its own courage and disposition, to which even rewards are given for the fruitfulness of their works, geometrical proportion, that is, the proportion of gifts to gifts, and of merits to merits, let the proportion of the former to the prizes be the same, and in this proportion not DEVS He will not only return the prizes to each, but also the civil republic, which is the archetypal world pi is a kind of world image, he established his own government. true of threefold proportion We will talk more freely later. I will continue to maintain a harmonious state of the Republic for as long as the members are taken tis, that is, the subjects of the Prince were considered in perfect concord and peace; the whole truth the harmony of the Empire and the Republic will soon be destroyed, with distrust, dissension, with religion nis russulation and sentiments arose against the princes' feuds; the Prince he would also degenerate into a tyrant, he would not care for the good of his subjects, if his manners and inclinations He should not condescend to a nation of subjects; if luxury, pride, and avarice flow out; if justice-j set aside; all promiscuous and unpunished are confounded by a kind of sinfulness, where no it is truly lived, where each one measures the good of the public with his profit, where health is for him the extermination of another is only contemplated, where all justice is numb, all order and disobedience the coat of arms is torn, faith is broken, all piety is loosened, towards each one's neighbor Humanity has cooled down to the most barbaric ferocity; while for one member of the Republic the one does not sympathize with the other, the whole withers and the taboo spills over the harmonic pus is soon destroyed, where the violent discord of the humors Xaueritiità the Republic, where the injustice of the kings, and the custom of their worst manners arise he will On the other hand, the body is perfected by the soul, so the Republic by Religion (I speak but here it is about those truths and only the Salvation of the Orthodox, Catholic Religion) but it is whole in the whole, and whole in every part, thus to the harmony of the Republic I give one religion, one article of faith to all who believe, to hold and observe. Without which Religion, neither the leader nor his subjects do their duty, without it there is no So fear, because there is no faith; not justice, not virtue, but fraud, license, insolence, by the word of men and of all things confusion is born. and as between the soul and the body, between the King and the subjects, between the Prince and the people, the sum must be effected piracy, without which the merit of the whole city and its foundations would be divided like a dangerous bolt of lightning
are they there? For what is a safe kingdom, whose guardian the people fear? Quazciuitasfalua, in What multitude lived suppressed by force and arms? therefore the Republic is perfectly in harmony with itself, the tritone to be removed, the tritone to be avoided with the diapente; they were diatessaron with the femiditone or
ditone to be completely eradicated, diapason with diatessaron, and similar dissonances; monsters to be avoided by all means, that is, dissensions, tumults, by force of the worst manners gor, dict Religion in variasreses, by no means to be permitted; were nor at this time nor at any time of the greatest calamities and overthrow of the kingdom, And the seminaries of empires. And from these, perhaps more fully than it was declared, the fat is established, in which the truths in The Republic consists of harmony. Nothing, then, remains, except to show how the three the political fold of the Monarchic, Aristocratic Democratic Economic State of the world so that they coalesce in perfect harmony, each having its own proportion, Of trtbtu the proportions of the threefold world of flatui competent; Matters à Geometris species of proportions are considered, Arithmetical, Geometrical Harmonica; when some numbers, not considering their greatness, lab. X Decachord of Nature. 4fJ For by how much is greater than so many that is, it is greater than units and the proportion is disconnected. Arithmetic ratio dead
It was joined when it was initially made by someone whatever the number, water is added to them continuously lia
But when some numbers are taken into account in their greatness! Geometry from dìfìuntt'a. like things are added, it is said to be a disjoint geometrical proportion:
sure to is added a triple, so to a triple, and so on to infinity. But when at the beginning it is made of some number, it is always added to it, or a part or a similar multiple, it is said to be connected, for vt to thus to and the geometric half is middle geome The triplicate proportional between and is It is called a harmonic proportion, in which the excesses between three harmonic proportions the numbers are in the same proportion, viz. in any such three
let the numbers be, whether they be true harmonics or not, always come
it is, that the accounts of water are in a certain way confused; verily with these m diets ex having been dealt with in the 3rd book, we leave the reader to it. What is left of Let us proceed to see what proportions of this kind can compete with the political state, Since, therefore, there are three political forms, Democratic or Popular, Aristocratic Stocratic Geometric, Monarchicandeniqueform is best suited for harmonics portion For just as in Arithmetic the increments of all numbers are, so of the great quamparus So the people of the Republic want to be aquatic, all burdens: aerocrat, and the advantages and honors of the Magistrate, and he does not want to tolerate any personal respect. Arith Nerica for when he wants the right to hunt for all, whether they be noble or ignoble, whether noble or noble the poor But if I have made any distinction, that it does not suffer a division among many; the people he wants to be drawn by lot, because the lot is blind, the noble from the ignoble, the long from the poor, and there is no merit; x from the undeserving, from the devoted to virtue to the vicious, from the talented to the stupid even some one thinks that he should be watered with the rest, if with these above such, either already good or bad ii perhaps of Magna Conson Disson it may be obtained by lot; where instead of lot there may also be other means of acquisition v On the other hand, as in geometrical proportion, the excesses of numbers are sunk by numbers geometricians themselves, as a great number has a great excess: Thus in the Republic of the Optimates preportioné are distinguished perfonie, distinguished onerd, prizes, magistrates, duties, prerestan the horse the tiflim are reserved for the best, the rest are left to the people; where it is most necessary between the individual factions, let us also admit an arithmetical proportion, for of these things are the people, all who are among the people shall be drawn by lot: of those who are the Optimates, all Optimists; for unless this be done, there will be perpetual among the people the ranks of the Optimists, and so on the last fate of the people; They also continued among the Optimates until the Republic of Princes pem, for what reason, not a republic, but a kind of royal city will be
Monarchy The state of royalty, if it is even the most assimilated to geometrical proportion; with that wherefore all the rights of the Magistracy are reserved to the King; with a fig for himself, or with a noble profession, or with arms, or Cain propor, virtuticoeteris prrestdt to all, yet the reason for governing in this state is very correct from then love can be moderated by a kind of proportion; For one King is not the judge of all with a sudden rush, vtlors; fed by virtue, merits, rank, and degrees which he allows, he administers everything between the Optimates and the people; all justly distributed: & the parts are carried out interchangeably, which is the connection of each proportion to the proportion it is sufficient to establish a harmonious one: so is justice, which governs all reasons It is comprised of swimming, the threefold form of uistitire results, commutative, that in proportion Arithmetic; distributions, which in geometry; Music which in both pioportion the mixture consists, it will result, in which the three daughters of Themis are suffocated, the law equality and peace, as if some of the three proposed proportions were protective they guarantee
Indeed, a clear example of these proportions is found in the pdia of Cyrus; Cy- for the boy of Phimómurus, when he had seen a tall man clothed in a coat of paper, tiua: just beside me, tunicalaxà; It was thought that the coats were to be exchanged for them. it would be the way, it would happen; His teacher has issued to leave to each one; But if for cero would have been ordered, that is, he would have paid something with money; And so at length the exchange was made ret; the Master might have seemed to the pupil to have clumsied very well, this geometrical Cyrus. came back for the portion, measured by the bodies and the clothes, Master Arithmetic his protection, but the third had looked at both at the same time, the want of bodies, which co pias cuiq; fuas faluas, itaq; harmonica from vtraq; reads a mixture of the former, in this agreement co the benefit and advantage of both is compared to the smoothness of the concert. Is it clear that this tempera-? àLiihofoìno chin even in remuneration; For the physician to remove the calculus from the bladder au He demands from the guilty, but only a few from the needy: and indeed, arithmetic or A geometrical analogy would be followed in every way, one indeed with calculus, the other with hunger Harmoniously it would work, but according to harmonic reasoning, wealth would indeed be provided for this one, and safety for that one. It is watched the proportion in of these proportions vfus in the laws of the connvians; V. g. if the patricians) I led the patricians laws with let them be commanded, the plebeians to the plebeians, it is a geometric similitude of the clouds Nukja I have come to cry, or to compete with form, wealth, and power, without regard to race as much as you can, nor any forbidden condition, this will be an arithmetical condition, the truth is ibiciuist they are divided into factions, here the ranks are confused, and both pernicious Re- public. Wherein they advise the Legislature to permit the marriages of the lesser patricians from time to time, the plebeians rich; the patricians impoverished by the dukes; for this to both orders the nobles indeed, that with increased wealth they should protect the state which they hold, and The husbandmen of this order, indeed, have an open access to honors, working for virtue in the fympo finally, let the ranks of the Republic embrace each other in charity; The same in law sym- It is necessary to cover the higher legi- A unique pofTor- traque composite harmonic proportion takes place; silly liquid is the quality of anth- tio feruanda merica in fymposijs, if promiscuous with no sex, condition, net worth, state of residence they lie down; tasteless and geometrical, for if all are learned, "what will profit the impertinent? Yes Who is the Author of the modesty of the clamorous clamors? if melancholic, melancholic, that air from ii i instead Artis M agna Consoni. $ Disoni x instead of pleasure, according to the harmonic proportion, the law is regulated bet And this harmonious proportion and concordance is observed, this is in the whole human amIJ. fatIS the love of life, which is the foundation of estamicitig. That was a mere incompetence
is introduced by the arithmetical law, there will be no friendship between them, which is temporary; such as the mere exquisite similitude of geometrical offices, neither will be friendship n I was the cause of the perpetual trade, and the exchange of services: hence necessary the patron-client association, without which there is no freedom to show love, no extinguished comparison This arithmetical sloppiness is most beautifully akin to the iron rule. which; the geometrical rule of bending Lesbia: leads to all corners modifiable Harmonic rule: wooden; it is assimilated, which: bent è trail returns: In rucjic; s fH- by the government of all kinds of polities, by strict judges; job equality meticX is compared; which; He not only gives his own to each one, but also He asks those who transgress in such a way with regard to the end of persons, and which you rightly say to the le-portion, deeds and allegation and proof, that they should indicate according to them, even if unjust: let them see the laws there, they are fastened; on the other hand, the meanness and the mere discretion of the magistrates, who nevertheless be good and act out of conscience, geometrical; it puts on the nature of proportion. Some others are geometrical Harmonic moderation in the example of the office or the superior courts, I have the proportion of all or they interpose the highest magistrates, who are not allowed to act out of mere discretion, it is permitted, that is, the laws bend according to the circumstances in the manner of a wooden rule, they shall not be broken, and they shall be interpreted in judgments according to equity. According to the laws of clothing, there is a great deal of geometrical proportion, viz to the higher degree of dignity each one stands, the more precious is he permitted to wear or-, eg! born. -arithmetic equality here is intolerable. Because, however, it is not only the or-geometrical variety a dino demands a distinction in dress, but here there must be some ratio of forces, some proportion and the proportion of both will be partly determined by the laws themselves, partly by the discretion of the directors Is this harmonious proportion maintained in penal laws according to justice? in laws vindictive requisition, viz. and the penalty of retaliation is indeed arithmetical, but the law of Icta is geometrical in proportion He loves them. In this agreement, in the laws of the rest of the votes, C! editors, refunds, scruados. of thefts, of rewards, of wages, of bribes, always in a threefold proportion if you look at it, it is the best harmonic of all. Arithmetic equality occupies the greatest place in the democratic empire: in Aristo a geometric likeness to a lattice, in which, however, there is a ratio of balance to the hedge, vt when the people themselves have the power of things, of their own free will. He commands to do things, or when the Optimates make the people partakers of some of the honors, cS? they give the most fruitful offices to the plebeians alone, and grâ-petit the injuries inflicted upon them by the Optimates indeed they return; they give liberty to enjoy pleasures, it is popular wisdom, let the plebeians allow a certain right to suffrage, in candidates from the nation of Optius to call his father by a certain number, from which number they later became the Optimates, with whom I was called. lunt, the police believe. Indeed, this communion, which is of the order of Pontius, Lest the supreme government, which is established, we have softened even the concord of the assembly of the citizens be disturbed. but if he be recalled, first the complaints of the fined party arise; then discord: as if by a disturbed concert, in short, either the command is transferred, or the entire division he lies down
The same will be held in the Kingdom or monarchical state, to which the harmonious family system is; in which he stands before all the rest, only even the supreme ruler) This, then, in politics: form, there can be a system of government of three kinds; For if inmonarchl all the functions the King shares equally, with no distinction between the nobility and the plebeians it will be laris arithmetic; like moderation, not decorous
he is to be mated with the lowest common people, with no intermediate order, but noble citizens
indo Artis Adagna Conson Dijjom characters will leave the kingdom, there will be no respect for race. If all the King had done in seclusion from the people chicftatu rat into nobility, a geometric similitude will be born in order, a dangerous form pro- Arithmetic and lacking in harmonic delicacy} for the people, powerful in number, were at last offended fubfiftenL Nobility to officials and honors, He will rob the King himself of the government. However it is not possible for the director to distinguish the ranks into several degrees, and to distinguish the duties and responsibilities of each rank he would have his own counsel, for Romie was the tribune of the people alone, and counseled by the patriots then the ranks will be alienated from each other, and there will be no firm agreement among themselves in the body. they will coalesce; For the offices of the inferiors should be despised with the same order: the patrician could not have carried equality into a common state unless he had sworn to nobility: by which all things monarchical will be shown in the following numbers King, nobility, and in- lopenCU' rnbos a harmonious middle, but from each of the former discordant people brings, or better in the following numbers, the matter shines for. 6. with harmony fa cit, with does nothing Jta is easier for the nobility to ccniociate with the plebs, than I did R, 3c in numbers vt is the geometrical mean between and for both of them; thus Nobility and connection there the state was established between the King and the lowest common people. reasons Furthermore, the numbers of the geo proportion refer to the aristocratic form of government of the Kingdom separated metrics; o. And indeed they relate the disfunction in the city of distrust from or. With which the number of dinos is too exact; Finally, the temperament of each of them is governed Aristocracy forms in the Monarchic or Kingdom state, that is to say, the nobility is protected by some of the plebeians rescranrrma A few and small numbers equal to the burden, or commended by virtue in some other matter, intervene, and in the last of the noble nobles, one of the most fruitful functions of the nobles, He is blessed with the splendor of the race, the more that is commendable to the people of the impostors. vt duumuiratus should be constituted from noble and plebeian, vtritjue order solace; as the court from to be constituted by persons of all ranks; vt in public deliberations about good pu- let the poor mingle with the rich, unless they have worshipers of mere virtue and piety all, but some also to the strong, some to the intelligent, some to the wise, some from perdition will be reserved for the powerful, which is beautifully shown in the following numbers z among whom the first to the fruitful diapente, to the third they dissisted; first to three his tuning fork; first, finally, to the last, diapason with diapente3 let the individual numbers harmonize perfectly with each other.
Corollary. Form gu to be born which harm nica mhabef quality it is the best. FormaTmpe rij Romans Monarchs It refers to a goddess inc it is clear that the form of steering the scraper is better, which is more harmful this is the state of the monarchical state, Aristocrats cus true democratic and if harmonious proportions are in some way rivaled, vt but most of all they love geometrical and arithmetical proportion, and for the most part, Dissonances running between them, they are generally distrustful and turbulent; he goes that the Monarchic state as the type which you give, the Aristocratic and the Democratic stand and as if certain species were to be included, Vt clearly appears in the Empire, in which apudlm- the pure power of the petitioner. --Princes, indeed, Empires) what else but Aristocracy they establish a certain kind, indeed not absolute, but dependent and subordinate to Cassare born m: c moreover, in the proper rights and faculties of a child; But free the cities, why? they refer to something else, except a kind of Democracy, and if not the most absolute in all numbers; but to Cassare dependent and subordinate to the same; which pukhrè also these qua- tuor numeri 'k comprehendibus viniucrsam harmony, vti libro z susè osten-
sumesl, they are shown: by vanity we understand the King and the Monarch D E I Opt: Max: in the Republic as a former Vicar of the binary, sacred Order, Religion nis prasidim, without whose exact donferuation the body politic in its harmony conscruaria jilmwrest, as we said above: through the ternary, military or equestrian state a stress by which the dissensions of the mind are brought into order, as if by syncopation of a kind of music and they are reduced to harmony; through the quaternary, finally, we need the people, first-or- religion Book X Decachord Nature
He refounds the mind with the end of the architect's understanding of the Monarch; a fruitful order system-- syllogisms with the ability to stretch out. In the third order, irascible; fourthly The concupiscible faculty corresponds, the seat of which is also in the brain, breast, and belly, Pla to show harmonics arranged at intervals; and their first Empire; fruitful He ascribes the council, the third to the military order, the fourth to the common people, and to these the four to the Cardi nals, Industriousness, prudence, fortitude, temperance, the pillar of the four Republics? very square Anyone; Therefore, the Prince will carry out his government harmoniously according to what has been said having decided, he without doubt having removed all dissonances, has attained eternal happiness it may be said This temperament is nothing else than that half of these monica between them enormously as a sort of mediator. She was seen to be very shrewd nature recognized, while for each class of things a certain medium intervened between the earth and top of clay; among the metal you slip, airy lumps; between stocks stones rake among the animals genera Zoophyta; Among the four-footed fishes, the amphibious, among the half birds fishes, flying fishes; among men and beasts apes 6e mermaids; among the wild beasts And the angels, a mortal man in body, viz. those, but an immortal viz. between Coe- ura us' Ium Imperium elemental, starry; between angelic and elemental nature between the human and the human, finally, the Angelic, and the divine Christ more than that, a divine man? nature; God appointed a partner. Each individual by huiuf- the middle of the mode, as if by certain bonds, so that the harmonious order of things might be fixed connecting, for if the middle is taken away, it is necessary that the beauty of the whole harmony should perish. For here, just as in the human frame, whenever the natural spirit perishes, ani- ZxempIa â it fails of the evils, with their consent soon and the third vital, or the cere- medicine is affected by the heart. brum, from the brain, the liver, or the small intestine is disturbed; sighing, they cast the cause of the evil on the head of another, on the belly, liver, stomach, or lie for in the meantime there is only one effect due to the humors and the sympathetic part multiple, where and those continuous outflows and exhalations circle the extreme ends of me they are falling down, having compared many drugs and medicines to the lowliness of one whole and for each part is mixed together. So, of course, in the city, if everyone only knows himself he thinks that if he consults himself alone, and thinks that the matter is being dealt with successfully Charles, in the meantime, does not notice the impending doom of a more common fate; that he labors, from the eye the incensocerebrum becomes inflamed, from the lack of the sun, and the distant element they are troubled; In truth, this kind of agreement is the primary bond, religion itself, justice ges the highest average of all things for each state or order. Mode before, gojnodo by which things are scattered, and are brought back to life; nature is the first through them: co- the most important laws, then the civil and municipal followers of the first; acceduntitifc. e Me- gathered Did you say to the jurisprudence? and according to practic Theology, he is perpetually connected; of manners, of body, and fortune: he brought common laws, and instilled them in us from the beginning ideas, in view of which particular Canons are made, of which they are effective: It is not removed because it is not removed. All intemperance and, would I like to rule?
They are engaged in too much excitement, or too much in excess. Opposites are taken care of: Axmmaca, Let them agree with the like. Small fires neglect to assume great powers, and therefore to meet the evil prince Shamefully it should be rescinded, lest the party be drawn insincerely. At the extremes for extreme diseases to be used; No permanent violence. Moderate to last. Everything a sudden change to the opposite is most dangerous. Hxc and hundreds of similar things in memory of the mind of the Ancients; All the pieces were thoroughly arranged, and each one resembled the Hero of Semidei above the ele- pincep He comforts the mental lot of the sublunary storms afflicted and disturbed here and there in the quiet and peaceful ways God, vengeful, or vengeful for the sake of the king, in the city or in the kingdom to institute, that either by the public law of equity or by the law of clemency? the r ytio should recede under control finally cadastre phs vaiise let me in guide: Composition states with poles of the world tic, .
Artu Magna Conson Disfan for, given the inconvenient, most of them result, the end is the same here and there, their reason- which are directed to the end Now both hope and fear are powerful tyrants, witness Lucian, to whom the whole world is subjected, to whom every calamity first everywhere shaken: it turns to the axis of calamity: for by the impact of these it itself is dissolved When there is a multitude, agreement is turned into disagreement, concord is turned into discord: the om of things In vain have the conquered cities become infamous, and most of the laws and judgments have been corrupted, and from the first to bring about calamities in the public domain, in the interest of gain or advantage may disease begin in the bowels; and it is done at last, viz. , that either of the whole of Africa, or of Europe or the victors of Africa once celebrated, Pompey, M. Antonius, Scylla, Neronesfimilelq, however, he was most miserably afflicted with intercutaneous distastes, and was severely besieged by a domestic enemy, They could not overcome themselves: they were suddenly taken out, and placed in the pinnacle of happiness, after which I was no longer remembered, I slipped down shamefully, and faster than they had mounted, I lost my life they dragged their beginnings most miserably in darkness and mourning. And to finally conclude, I will add here is a third image of the Republic, such as in the Prince, a man for political harmony, must be observed to be preserved. Therefore, from a King or a Prince, viti immediately And they must flow from a perennial fountain, first of all justice clementiseiuncta Secondly, fortitude to the truth which three are, as it were, the first political harmony: but they are principles, means, retribution for goodness, the punishment of evildoers; a combination of good things. sequestration of evils; deniq of mediocrity; conservation The end will be the flight of evil, the love of good, concord and peace, equable virtue and limit not transcending; just as in man not to be considered three, by which the whole machine, the microcosm completes its movements, thus in Re-
the public is the soul, the spirit, the body; Animarli-, They report to the republic the common reasons, ra particulars, examples, and examples; Breath then the natural laws, civil laws, and laws of the Republic writings: customs. Finally, the body-- The princes of the Republic, subject to the King, the Magistrate, The people, who are also applied to the prince, cu right power bodily force, love toward lust the spirit, the reason or the intellect of the Architect no, he presents the soul. All is well now to argue with harmonics in a framed figure tijsfpectanda are proposed, and in this same figure or epilogifmoq of the anacephalous; We close the political music included. R E G I S T R V M V I I I. Metaphysical harmonic flue Muiica.
De Anima composttone. ZXVI of the Ancient Philosophers had asserted that the soul was composed of the same and different They esteemed her not incongruously with Numerus. Resin ternariq will be revealed; For sure for They flow continuously from the King as a center. Lt. X. Decachordon Matura
for the ternary is simple, even insectile, neither cheap nor free, in-
tcnfionisvc is capable, yet it is composed of even and odd, not indeed composed of the soul's com If I obey the law, nothing can be conceived before the number, according to Plato; For if any one an- odTeTml he will conceive the ternary three vanities, those unless he has conceived them they will constitute me; But the three vanions of the vanitas are properly ternary. From itself, then, the inteIllgar is composed and because it is composed of itself; from one and the other, from the same and different, from even and odd It must be composed of sectile and insectile. But in this agreement the number matched, which if it is conceived as moving itself; And for this reason the ancients did not have a rational soul they admired mere beauty from another, but since it is not itself, except in the immediacy of GOD, who is simplicity itself, the abyss, compound simplicity flowing from pure simplicity; whence the soul is safe in the number of the living it is composed of even and odd, sectile and insectile, thus in the quantity of life, number and number a frog can be conceived of as a compound of the sensible or sectile; and the intellectual or insectile. Hence in seipfa he looks at the harmonies, for the extrinsic harmony is intrinsic to the noetic? harm nia measures in the corruptible ray; and since it has within itself a number that counts all things it will hold a harmonious proportion of all things in its beauty. Let's talk about numbers but here it is not a mathematical number, but a symbolic and rational number, which is from mshicintel He proceeds with the divine mind, of which the mathematician is a certain image and likeness, just as Our mind has faith to the divine mind, and the number of our mind to the number of men tis divine The truth is more clearly shown here. It must be known that there is nothing but one infinite beginning, and this infinitely simple; first the ear of the principled, as the philosophers call it, do not afterwards be infinitely simple, ne- Primfl. which is composed of other components itself, since the components of it are the parts let nature precede, be the first principle, not the poster: it must therefore be conceded, let it be thus composed of the principles of the principle, that it may not also be from others, but the compound itself; but it cannot be done, that is, anything else can be assigned a can be composed on such a basis, unless the number, or as our number of the mind, therefore; The whole thing will be beautifully placed before the eyes of the triangle from which J""
sides, the ratio and extent of which cannot be conceived at all, except in three lines the waters are arranged in a triangle: for considered separately a. b, c. because they do not enter, so the exterior of the triangle is not to be reported either postunr, therefore, as a triangle, except with three straight water lines It cannot be conceived, nor ternary, unless it is made up of three venirates with which a certain thing is dried up, not from matter and form but because it was said, from one and the other, from even and odd, sectile and inse- b the coalesced Not unlike the soul, as a little later he declares is swept away Further, when we look precisely at the vnirate in number, it is nothing else but uncompounded in let us protect the composition, or to speak more clearly, the compositional simplicity nismultitudinufque éuear-rann siue coincidence. For when, in the number of composi- rr
so let us look at the harmony, the perfect ineo harmony, such as m harmony and geometry tuning fork and we find the detestable, we are contemplated. For it is a harmonic ha- mcfcom- the two-fold valor, which cannot be conceived without number; But those of the attitude of the parties to tone p2rilCl0Les the diapasonbjfariamdiuisi will be searched deeply, and he will find them at the same time to have inversely the side of the square to the diameter of the same, and find the number simpler than the reason of the human mind can reach him, since there is none there let there be proportion, nor can there be number, but number cannot be conceived without relation, it is possible, and yet this number should be even and odd at the same time. Which way the concept is difficult, who does not see? We have, then, what it is, and how it is done first with the beginning, whose type the number carries, Le which is nothing but the number
without number there can be no proportion, so without proportion suitable adequate form, form-, Kkk resplen- Artù Confini Dissoni VURîs cannot shine with linen. Hence and consequently it is clear how the model's vanity is infinite numbers, unless they are suitable, in which they are confistic in number, in proportion, they cannot shine. For the mind acts the bee is incapable, eternal, like Mutici, who wants to produce his conception outside the senses of the blind, worse he reduces the voices into a proportion suitable for harmony, and adjusts them; so it happens that in that in harmonious proportion, when it is there, that is, in its place, the sweetest and most perfect thing let it shine Therefore in the mind, and from the mind the number and all things and the plurality indeed of things. How can it be a snow newspaper; it is a mental number. For from the fact that the divine mind becomes one, in- and the divine mind understands one thing differently, the multitude of all things has arisen, as nothing else but me to be conceived the diam to understand the reason of the divine; we will bring the mind Where is the first exam? glory in the mind of the Founder is necessarily a number, this is evidenced by the delight and beauty How can I give that which does not exist in all things, but beauty is in proportion, proportion in number it consists of the numerator ro, which is the most appropriate number to instruct wisdom pious'1. 0"5 therefore let our mind come to the similitude of the rnentumic, and the perfect mind of the divine stmuk- chrum, the model of the conceptions of our mind can only be a number: if for I did not go out with a number of discretion, nor with likeness, nor with an idea stunt, for who defines? Who can distinguish? Who can discern and divide without number? for substance is one thing, quantity another, quality another; to include Since there is a reason for understanding in number, nothing can be conceived of that end can: But how is this number one and all, let us explain how, then, if there is one and from each there is only one; in the same way that everything will be, or Will everything be fine? For if all things are in him, there will be one multitude; .. t omm murtU(j0 qUO will therefore be one, one will be multitude; insofar as it is one, He will produce a multitude in himself, and in so far as the multitude is produced, he will produce himself. And he called the principle, but not the principles: or, that there is one principle; indeed many principled and into the same absurdity, quazstio falls, reason: What then say? what should I do? whether a method is to be found, that one and the other should only be so, and so be the same everything I say, therefore, that all things are not each and every one distinct from the multitude, as they are. A multitude is a number, but every number must necessarily be divisible by each species. of many! it will have respect to the following multitude, and derived from one depend on the same bit But one is the apex of many, and surely one is the apex of numbers. True vt. these things are better understood, to know that everything can be taken in a threefold way; of course everyone phciteHumi inwardly, all things outward, all things distinct and even multiplied. the first one is more abstruse polish We declare thus; All things are in one, but in their own way, just as in another place all things are in but only in his third proper form are all things in abundance. In one place I say things are in their own way, and if it is right to speak thus, that is, internally, indistinctly, indistinctly, two, one; that is to say that all things are one, so that although all things are, yet one thing let them be yours, than all things. For it is one by itself and by its own nature and first, but all things are in so far as it has in itself indistinct and indiscernible inwardly, and in so far as it is cautious no. Therefore, that first one, on which all the rest depend, is necessary It is truly one, or it is not truly one: If it is not truly one, it will either be many or nothing As this is an absurd thing, it must first be asserted in the least, so that there will be neither nothing nor much one, therefore, it will be truly one, and nothing else, than one and simply one, even supreme simplicity consequently extreme absolution, if supreme absolution, then supreme by
the most perfect creation; if the most perfect, then the most sufficient, if the most sufficient how, then, is the best and highest good. But who does not see this multitude in himself pliability, absolution, perfection, sufficiency, and good as so many attributes to emerge shining, while we are taken from one place to another; Those who will go before If he understands this well, he will see clearly that this fennel is truly considered in itself Do x ZT solution for polished dilli- to whom you gave One Lib. -10 Decachord nature. so, what one; what sufficiency? one, Here, therefore, at for us, they are one in one, and not many, and why are they in one, only one, with us there were many when we multiply. I will not list each of these under species and under no we can either conceive of more things; With these six attributes let all things be contained, therefore all things have one thing in themselves; as then before all the multitude neither is vanity, but this vanity is the uncreated mind, in which all things are one, after one but is the explanation of the virtue of that vanity, that virtue is the entity of things. The quality of extension, and finally the connection of entity and quality, is the sacrosanct Trias. It is not otherwise in our mind that the ancient Triad is like, for our mind likewise v. nitatas, as before all multitude comes through the conceivable mind, after vinita- But every coming multitude is multitude and plurality, which is nothing else which is a kind of image of multitudes, just as ours is an image of the divine mind is, but the virtue of the vanity of the mind is explained by the multitude, by which the virtue of the entity, squalidity It is the most perfect image of these connections. From this, therefore, it is clear that the discourse was perhaps longer than was equal; how to the first the model, the model of the human mind is nothing else than a number, and how is it from In no diverse, out of even odd, out of double indiuid should be composed; where- let it be the same number that shines beautifully in the day divided into portions, all sensible, rational, and intellectual things are entangled in harmony as a string folds all consonance within itself, which can only be explained by division. It has often been shown that when a string is excited, it similarly excites another similar to itself untouched, our mind is like a polychord of the forms of things by force of affinity for in sight he assimilated himself to the visible, to the audible in the hearing, to the gustatory in the gu stu, in smelling odorous, in touch palpable, indignantly sensible, imaginable in the imagination, and in reason; For the image has itself in the sensible ab- Més by ipe you will meet
IX sentient, sensed without the discernment and distinction of the sensible; at present not sensible Our mind is excited by the vehicle of the spirit, which we re- the object of the object is the perassimilation of the information he makes, he shapes by species; Whence the spirit was animated by the vital mind to the similitude the specific object of the movement of the spirit rton. lecus and flexible wax, through the application of It is configured: the mind does not act in a different way according to the various movements of the spirits tionera, in the various organs of the condition and quality of the pro-organs according to the ratio nes; Tn mruar For the optical red is not formed of sounds, i. e. of the species of colors, it is heard in the drum Jn. a fantastic organ to the forms of all sensible species vtindferetè, so niL organo noetic siuerationatiuoad all fensibilict. and these configurations, when they are made in the midst of the corporeal spirits, become of the fusible. the mind is by faith still independent of the body, while it regards its own immutability, it does so in the same way the likeness of forms, not that they are in themselves, and by themselves, and unchangeable, he conceives what things are
riches, seeing itself as an instrument without any organic spirit; vt when he conceives cir. what kind of figure are all the lines of which, drawn from the center to the circumference, are square?
les, he is occupied with the experienced truth of the matter; for it cannot be done, as in material be equal to the precise semidiameter, much less as a mathematical circle is described unsubjected to the material: a circle in the mind is therefore a model of a circle on And when the mind makes these affinities in itself and abstract matter, this is itself faith he appreciates my abstracts. Not unlike in two polychords stretched squarely, soon Kkk z Artu Magna Consonici DiJJorit for whenever you are incited in one, the other correpondcntcm to be incited in the same way necefsè est: v i for we compare the powers of different chords, the hebtachords of each ùtìheotit pruslambanomena namely, parhypat? , Lychano, mes, paramela, patancta, neta, with poly. that is, with different faculties of body and mind, of touch, smell, taste, hearing, sight, I will return to the imagination, to reason, to the understanding; the polychords, however, first objected to the powerful jalters to respond to them; it is certain that whatever power is exerted by whatever object to sound the tumult of the statin, and to stop the graceful appearance in the ears, close to the step, which the chor give whatever matters. Hence when the lower chords produce duller sounds, the senses ex the third ones are aptly suited, but the three upper ones are the most subliminal sounds, the most acute exhibiting them, they beautifully compete with the interiors of the powerful. So the tactile qualities they grind the spirit of touch corresponding to the making of the sensation visual qualities they stir up the spirit latent in the optic nerve, to which or to the vital instrument the operation of seeing immediately follows. Thus the qualities or things abstracted from matter the form of the rational mind, and the capacity for intellectual operations REGISTER Angelic music.
On the Harmony of the Intellects of the Angelic Archetype human to the contrary compared to the world. EVS Opt, Max. that is, from the stern, he willed to create all things from the stern, by which tameiu not from time immemorial, but at one time he produced it, and the certificate of creation fz like a prodro in the beginning of my promised principles, he established the angelic understanding of all his creatures: for those angelic intellects are the first and purest births of God, divine; all workers, these precognitions of the mind, and some archetypes of them as if immaterial, ex the first cloths, by which they were to be created anew, were to be made of matter. For he foretells, Angelus di- ujt and conceived outside and before matter in Angels DEVS vniueria, which then was fa- fimuUcbrsi cturus, as if in the organ of any Artisan, a series of future modulations which preconceives the v. niuersos; vbiconsider be the double daily of all creations foreknowledge and foreknowledge; One uncreated and eternal, which we call DEVM from teriTopr9you have known and understood all things, and they were sutures by touching r. But it is different created foreknowledge of God, which is the first work of God, immaterial and intelligible; by which We say that by producing and actually subsisting all God's creatures, even if they do not yet subsist Comparison be the conceptions, and the divine mind's first conception of all creatures a long time Thou hast perished in the flight of thy feet, that is to say, the Angelic understanding; don't flash At first he conceived more simply and in his mind alone that he would have a son from his marriage. when she conceives, she conceives with the help of a man who is fruitful in the second; and thirdly, finally, the mature fetus is born but the first mental premonition of the most simple woman about her son, it is like the firstborn and uncreated foreknowledge of all things. The second woman's pre- fcientia vterinaqueiilij conception, the second diurnal pi knowledge is emulated jsicut nor does the first conception in the woman's mind have anything to do with the son itself, neither; is part of the daughter so that first and most ancient conception of all creatures in the mind of God, no it is a part of creatures and not a creature; But the second, which is the creation of the Angels ad he looks at creatures, for an angel is a creature and the simplest of all creatures ctus: afterwards, surely, after a woman has conceived a son in the womb, a little later she gives birth to the same one,
a son is born whole, subsisting and visible to the world, so also DEVS after in Angelo An angel conceived all creatures, then gave birth visibly, and they were created in substance. understand the matter: You will understand things better by a harmonious example: Organzedus every one first conceives the most beautiful organ, and then turns his conception into a work of art the first conception of God. The second second, the third third; therefore, God is the source of all things At first two intellects called you, the Angelic and the human, the one pure separated Sc plexus, here connected with corporeal matter, that principle in all knowledge actually fa He knew all things, and became powerful as all-powerful and in the power of all the knowledge of all things is perfected; Hence the intellect of the Angels is at the same time wholly in the universe. Stanziali refers to the ratio of individual points; human gradually perfectible, lineg, quest the explanation and flow of the point: therefore the angelic intellect is distant from the human, whatever it may be two opposites, act and power, light and darkness, knowledge and ignorance, the principle of def snow, immobile and mobile, nature and art, discordant consonance. but the opposites are not lim intelligibly fighting against him in turn Let them be converted to one another, and let one perfect the other, as the act perfects the power. light darkness, knowledge ignorance, nature art, discordant consonance. they are in the angelic intellect from the beginning, the same &-human in the end: for the angelic prince is the creature of God and the noblest creature, from whom it is hoped to explain the line of creatures, But man is the end of God's creation and of all the periods of creation, Angelo Paulò in in the end, an angel is consumed by nature, a man by art. Hirte in every way, as I have been from the beginning my wretchedness, and so without the greatest equality, is so abjectly human, quan this nature is angelic, for the intellect is angelic and esteemed in one simple L indi I am a widower before all things and above all things, without the fpecies of all things, in your own being is all things, hu but the hand of the intellect, moving through all things, runs through the species of all and everything is done.
From these it is clear that only three things were created by God, two of the three, the angelic and the human whether the understanding, and the medium, is sensible but each thing is whole and all. whatever, whatever; before the end the gelicus intellectus is the essence of all, and vmuersaiisomnium act, the other extremity in The human intellect is the post of all, and the universal power of all. And every ve The sensible creatures are left between each and every understanding; all things are second substance composed of act potential; therefore of all things mundane and sensible Both understandings are the mere and natural terms of things; Every creature is angelic: he is the beginning, the human is the period and the end of all creatures: but all things are more sublime in a certain way they are made in the angelic understanding before thee according to their appearance in the human body after being according to matter and substance in itself, in being, and secure in the bottom of things or and the end of both is one, so also the middle must be one but he made the angelic intellect before all things, a medium in all things, and all things in themselves Gluttony is the last thing, or after all things, the human intellect was made: and in both cases indeed the understanding is brought to the same object, that is, the supreme good is the uncreated truth, which is illuminated by natural light.
Therefore, the angelic intellect of God was immediately surrounded by the sensible creatures then he proceeds, and man, as man procreated and imbued with all kinds in GOD finally ends. So you see the wonderful creation of all things-# Furthermore, the angelic intellect is impassive, the human is susceptible, not even of itself; but on account of memory, in which images of things and intellectual species are received; which intel the bed was soon removed from the world by its falsities ptuarioadfuture contemplations and speculations most true within the fc conuersions He usually recommends cyclical lations; adeò qutdetp vt the intellect is like the eye, arG-
moria is like a mirror, intellectual veto is like an image in a mirror of a broken tooth
LikX. Decachord Nature,
Harmonica comparison What do you understand? ctus d emanated first Ange hey s hu hands how differ in picked up handSC An gillCUS angelic understanding for a long time prince), ho by threats end mode fe has Vari$ v crushed, understand that compact reasons Harvest of the whole sensitive creature v terqueintel the bed angelic understanding impassive susceptible hu hands I memorized it with understanding preparation Magrue Consoni q) Dijffoni let them have themselves, again the world is the place of all things, it is natural before the time I know it I was the object of the faculty of the intellect, and all that is in the world, to the human intellect let them be known, presented, objected to, that he may learn from them, and all things may be done; me the other world dies, it is a mirror of the greater world, the truth of the contemplated! understanding object; the greater world is the source of all substances, the memory of images I was the first to conduct the intellectual species.
You see, then, how DEVS becomes like a kind of harmony of nature; whose pri mus act to the outside world, angelic intellect in faith all the consonances of the worlds unfolding, the chord of the vnisona diuisa bifaria produces the tuning fork of the human intellect. All this we put before our eyes in the present diagram, in which the circle DEVM all things into one uncomplicated; But the hcbtachorda scale is the degree of the creation of things cat, after DEVM the first act of creation or the first chord of the proslamban name Angdu do they exhibit, in which case all the consonances? they are explained; The last net is correct son refers to the human understanding; intermedig chord? but the inextricable degrees of the world from they will go Do you see how I understand? let it be like the eye, the memory a mirror, in which om let the images of the world shine. An angel, however, without particulars, will complicate all things otherwise, let the understanding be of the ear, the memory to mirror the object of reflections, but the Echo is the voice reflected images of worldly things, all finally in perfect harmony with God but many interesting points will be revealed in the following discussion.
intellectual first examples or paradigms from the very first generation of subsistence bent Lib. X. Nature of the Decachord. bent, and the approach to the ivy is strong I will testify that the law is empty through the written tablet, and she wrote it on the log And the scriptures are filled with the mind: And the mind or intellect is a certain fruit of itself recalling the former understanding of itself, the image of it, and the figure or type made abroad; for if he all things are intellectual, and all will be all things animally, and if he all things exemplarily the soul will be in the manner of the image, and he went to analogies and harmonic reasonings, and he contributed the first principles figu- 'gen the production of rarities, and moves the intellectually existing circles within it. Everything, then mathematics are first in the soul, and before numbers they warn of feeble numbers, and Do you see the figures appearing in the figure? vital, and previously agreed upon or prepared for them accordantianim or harmonica? .
Now we can have a double faculty about harmonic proportions from the mind, to consider in this place; first which? through the mental process, then the operational such again is twofold: or indeed the quality of the proportions themselves is inferred from abstractions or the recognition of the chosen proportions in sensible things. The faculty, therefore, which he pursues harmonic reasons, which is the same as the other sciences and arts there, namely, the higher part of the human soul; But what ability is that? noble proportions à He declared, and recognized, that he was inferior to the sensible, or even to other matters established outside himself is it a soul? ability; the most intimate sense, or even a still lower faculty of force such that neither runs away, nor exists in man alone, fed even in the irrational soul;
but if you impose the discourse, nor grasp the knowledge of harmonic proportions— can he, he complains, know where he should recognize the offerings from abroad? For it is to be recognized, ex-how to associate the most sensible with the internal ideas, to indicate to him what is appropriate. I answer fori Toblacas ideas or formal aspects of harmony for all these, which? ability to recognize said the harvest is strong for you, and they are not received internally through discourse, but rather from instinct in flower the proportionate arrangement of the colors, in the feathers, of the birds, which from example i the perimentum produces similar harmonic proportions to plants, i. e. not vegetatively dem to the ability in the plants themselves to recognize the harmonic proportions ra, lbu- hidden in plastic and chromatic power Thus it is done, vt children ru let the farmer, the barbarian, and himself be brought here to perceive the sweet harmonies of the voices. Like? - What is this instinct for them? or I will take refuge in DEVM, who forms these bodies lest I should be fruitful of his images, yet more, he devises and presides over the minions; in plastic and with chromatic power he inculcates harmonic proportions, and lets them surround him— does he do it, because he himself has complexed them from the stern mind, and in the creation? exprejflit Or that Cause he returns with the same, I will allege the above-mentioned kinship of these souls, even to the lower soul rum with a circle, to which velutiad norm and law are composed? conformed? they are delete with the circle and its demonstrability, the idea of harmonic proportions is also given then they put on the dependents. What are the means by which the soul uses these faculties? inferior to perceive harm the external objects are the same as those external objects themselves receive inwardly, if they are perceptible to the senses, and are also perceived by the senses. Where? omniafusiflìmèin Theo will the hieroglyphic logos of GOD be explained by the powers of the soul? sense ins, Hatmonfaji formative, which? and she, no less than the superior in comparison, is engaged in insensible reruns, certain, though by instinct rather than discourse. Thus the consonants of They are distinguished by their acoustic ability. In this way, the architectural proportions of the eye per- are they taken, by the power of the veiled sight? they are judged by the unfit. If indeed the thing itself? in which there is a harmonic system, they may not be sensible, but may be perceptible by some other faculty be, eat, and the very proportions of things shine forth in the soul. Although this perception of harmonies is dulled by the inferior faculties of the soul, light and in some way material, 8c is hidden as if under a cloud of ignorance: yfrfit, cu seeing Magne Confini Dijfini seeing something we did not notice to see it, such are the mdtusilli Sz pauorcs a The celebrated Stoics, I hate even the feelings of the natural end of the plan and of the great volition or of natural love with a wonderful genius, with which we draw above the fuse that gives the harmony of the members, the similitude of the spirits, the voice of God, and the temperament in titatibus the goodness or likeness of the soul of the other is appreciated by his care, wonderfully in it, it flares up. He therefore loves any one else, and does not know why, or what in him, above all, he loves. emergency6 because it is not necessary for him to serve anyone else. But the physiologist coming up hidden opera- love understanding the harmonic or disharmonic characteristics of the sound, he found a movement in each the dissimilarity or dissimilarity of certain things; natural; if indeed they are concordant, they will generate friendship: That physiognomic instinct, however dumb and brutish, was nevertheless He is the only interpreter and arbiter of mans. For so much as any man of prosperity (nature literally speaking) he obtains as much as his face, his body, his incest, his movements who laughs at the members of those who have power over things, no matter how much they steal, even on no one that reconstlio vsis, velutilatensjvtfxpè that they should not testify that they love or have heard anyone
knowing for what reason; Such, I say, is the sense in the lower faculties of the mind without sense of proportion It is clear from all this how naturally men When we made a selection of them in the seventh book of these things, we sent them back to the reader. Corollary. .
In animx T) Atet, too, how, according to Plato, the inanimate fabric of all kinds of things ideas are united in a certain way, and how they are harmoniously united ZrmilA cà rational, not arithmetical, otherwise the distribution of the said things would be in vain somewhere, nor only in geometrical proportion, otherwise there would be so much squalor in the mixture, vt with the external diversities of the bodies do not closely conspire poster i But harmonica ra that being constant in the similitude of the various, and dissimilar makes similar, and mxquali common it connects with a certain quality; but I was at once confused, and then to the heart pore quality service; for if she acts with such an intelligent identity, that is, I will speak of a certain alterity, which I identify by reason of a certain alterity In the same way he does it in the imagination and in the sense. It is true that more about the composition of ani- He longs for a harpist, says Marsilius Picinus in Piatonempholus. De'Tetra&y at the end of the quaternary harmonic animò} at the end of four
Powers At no time did Pythagoric's enormous number of noses become large the sacraments hidden by it, were sacred in the progenitor. Now then, where but let us see that it exists in God, in an angel, in man, in animals; agreed, one two, three, four come together to make a penny, the symbol of the whole world, Arithmetìcf am the goal and the limit, and the simple nature of virtue to be explained; from the very beginning myiticz spe ro denarii, which is the other certain value, is equal to the quaternary) progresii) squared to the root? for together constitute the denarixradicis square Centenarian ambitions will also be fulfilled by a thousand-year movement. of course united together constitute a millennium, fruitful of vanity, of roots penny cube Therefore, there were not more than numbers, which were four times, by natural influence Are they prevented from progressing, or are the glasses rooted out? the thousand-year cube another variation of the repetition takes place, with the then quaternary progression found three times in the denarius arise in order You have therefore the quaternary of unity, the explanation of the number one; continue Artis Consoni s) Disoni
to contain the power For the general power is distinguished from four powers, They are arranged in this order. the first very simple; Secunda à primd chstat ad the union of constitutes the root of a denarius. the third ceatenarium denoting a square-, i denoting the fourth millennium, he established a cube each of its entities in these four distinct units, in the most important sense in the spirit of DEVM vt the Creator of all, to be born in the root of his spirit), intelligence Z. i' in the square the intelligence is the contraction of the soul; in the cubic number, and nothing He considers the folding of the body. But all things in GOD'S WORD the bed, the soul in the soul, the body in the body; And in vanity indeed the first omrres the rest even though you look at them individually, indifferently, and indistinctly, they are complicated. Certainly if anyone He rejected only this very simple vanity and penetrated it to all the multitude, so he called it rather the simple than the not simple, not more than not the one who proved all things let him know that you have penetrated all the mysteries of yourself, through this vanity of mind, you will see naked in all the multitude, and you will not find, his corruptible life in This is the absolute vanity in which everything is; but this absolute vanity is very precise vcertitudum, that is, the falsehood acts in itself and through it, for it is an entity then; the quiddity of all things, the cause of all causes, the source of all ends, The truth about the philosophy of this spirit in the art of our combiner! Give more abundantly to God who gives it will be known
You also see a certain admirable harmony under these four vanities of la-H grind, representing that supreme harmony in the archetypal world. For the first time, the fubn; vinitas, what else does it denote to us, if not all the tones, all the consonances in quaten: folding himself? What else does to mark, except a tuning fork? you are angelic which tuning fork is nearest to the one-tone, and thus most also from that one-tone of divinity participates: What else does to denote but a diapason with a diapente? qu$ consonance cu be composed, what else does it denote but the sensible world or substances? denied that to what else but bisdiapason denotes? the next angelic tuning fork almost mysterious can draw
A mufica of four units according to the harmonic dtfyofition. DEVS Vnisonus Angel A sensible world Man The first desire The second desire The third vinitas The fourth vinitas
Diapason z' Diapente Diatestaron Diapason with Diapente "Disdiapason" v You therefore go in a certain way with GOD, that is, the intellectual with the intellectual; in the name ris in wonderful harmony; You see how the angel is consonant with the sensible world which he folds in the diapente, second after the diapause the consonance will agree; how the mind and heart likewise to that is, the sensible world is consonant with man in the diatestaron, which: unless nf pons- be united in diapente, taken separately, consonance cannot be said to be so soul to heart pus is not in the least concordant, unless by means of one union the soul is united to the body he is eating Vidcs also how the between is intercepted as if syncopated, dissonant which should be adapted to the consonance, for the world is vulnerable, or corporeal, at two ends It cannot at all harmonize with the angelic and human intellects, except in the Angel through the protection of all things the cognitions of all before the corporeal world the same non-existent and in man after the co-cones the rich world through the stories of the creation of all things, it is clear, in short, how to give the wine of the intellect with the angelic in tune, with the human in disdiapason vnisonet, ver- all things will be in harmony with God's original archetype.
However, all this will be explained more clearly in the following diagram, in which four unity and their various development and multiplication according to the three world- Artts Magna Confini Riponi cioinn; fbnfii Lih. X, Decachord. .tyafi. j rura ordinem diopofitamtotius deniquenatura consonantiam vna synopsis you will look at me aiq m ctmbio zu md otìbi a npî n a8' Therefore we have shown above that the denarius is an all-comprehensive number, four but with the nose all the progression of numbers is completed, for four times ten make Scenario From here we distribute the entire harmonic scheme into circles, in that distribution vsi n SpSru mere which is a most mystical number, the symbol of Sanim à Plato in, Timseo is established, but it will be said a little later. For these numbers together constitute colleges. It is a very ordered progression, for if you take the binary into itself, you produce and if only is numerous if you add it, the same quaternary will appear, so to the quaternary; a penny of course for-i-myftiCGmm no progression is more orderly than i, for like the previous simple ones if mulsumpta? io, and hence multiplied together make thus simultaneously i We note DEVM, the four circles corresponding to the largest of course-the first in nature; .no by degrees they partake of the light and the light; the first one, the last after this. order, fourth and last Joco, the supreme chorus; As a result, you see the dance: the light and until the end to communicate; you will also observe how that which in turn, and in every place it is found, it is repaired in order. Not a penny worth of intelligence, Centenary soul, millennia, as it has been said, sealing the body, is in another way in the highest overflowing, that is, the fertile nature of that world, the sublime, simple noble one way in the middle, another way in the lowest shadowy world; For the lowest of the higher
You will see that the lowest coincides with the highest in everything; for its meaning is simpler than the insufficient intellect. You see, then, how apt the whole world is with the triple ttiundors. noses, nine hundred years; and as many millennia, all comprehension sis be distributed, in which triads of the nineteenages, the same number of vinities for the three major circles. you will add to your indignity, at last a thousand years in a simple vanity through the greatest of all things. , you will find the surrounding and folding circle marked. And we will see how in every world anything, how the same progressions in each of the worlds; fcriebusjex&constitution. For if the first denarius of the upper world was worth two If you are pregnant with three, the third with four, you will have a perfect progress; the same progress Zion's law will close the second world sealed with a denarius, vt follows cande the third world centenary signed, vtisequitui; for siritècon ìunxerisin emerges for each, -denarijmiscellai. i
From which it is clear, how modern the intelligentsia of the lower world is, even if it is about sxpifcation the nature of the upper or middle; he did not go, because he was far removed from their simplicity, their ta-fiSura: vite- the mind reaches a kind of analogy in a strange way to fertile nature, viz. He appears to the gods of the three worlds. See the diagram following the prototype, in which in let's say that the world is covered by wooden cubes without corporeal nature, from which. the brightness of the elements is determined by the temperature, and therefore the darkness is so much more immersed the more distant it is from the bright tip; But the second is the heavenly world, lu He holds a middle seat between darkness and darkness, full of intelligent orbs warning them who shrouded the lower world in darkness by the perpetual derivation of light, and to him nant, then second The third angelic world contains the abode of light, the order of in which those heavenly hosts of blessed minds are distributed in harmonious order, diverse. frosts they administer and distribute the services of the lower worlds. Seraphin with divine Seraph; n rousing all inferior things to divine love by the consonance of works they attract and inflame them perennially with a certain divine commotion. Cberubin ioiraxiCbembin. the mind of men, and the lower orders, absorbed in the ocean of divine knowledge they illuminate true knowledge and understanding. Tbroni of the world of things that exist in it III of that. m. Ttmit A rtii Ai agna Comforti Dijjoni
And there are three main functions of this order, vtca! ore a certain day they cleanse the more serious from the dirt then enlighten each one's own knowledge: ha Let them complete the rum and those things; for all beings flowed from the fummu m good by their nature they desire, and for the strength of the adiposity they are connected, that is, as much as possible they themselves can be united and flow with it; and they can inflame others to achieve it. Cu for the highest good. the essence power action of the neighbor, and of his nearest part The fruits of the good of Stipsi, necessarily produced, are inimical to no being and to all in the good of the good it is necessary to cooperate with oneself, and we have tripled what we have said by action I give, I attract, for by these same actions ipl'5 also the minds of the first triad for the office itself is a fruitful order, but because of its nature, that is, from the Worker it is more moving, more remiss Mastery which he first passes away à DEO& himself through a higher order to his proper perfection ncs reduced i which indeed perfection consists in it, viz. let the lower dsmi exercise freely. Under no compulsion, they give them of their own free will, and virtues threaten, and purify, and perfect, and lead to the highest good, and the same-# powers, let them make a kind of stability by virtue of their own strength. And the powers of order The principalities of M à actuated by Omni far away they conspired in confusion. But the third order appears
angels, but the fates of peoples subject to the princes, and finally the angels of individual men Archangel Angels by whom the whole human race is enlightened to the understanding, A as to vo the distance is cleansed, and it is perfected as to truths, for it is not unworthy of the preeminent to create goodness for all, to procreate all things, and then to leave them to chance be a foreigner and remain in contrast; but be whole, and goodness itself must continue, it was necessary, that every one of them should be joined at the same time, that they should hang loosely, and be connected to each other, and to go back to the first source, to make them suitable for them: this could not possibly be done, in he fi chain the highest and the middle and the lowest beings were connected by certain chains, because of these minds with love and service as aptly as possible; And this is the thread chain Heracleoticaomniaconnectens; This decachordon is the nature of the Universe, omniaircu. matching one and the same beautiful harmony. While DEVS, vti in omnessite especially into the Angelic world, here into the Celestial, and the celestial into the Elemental world in a certain surprising way the influitdterura of the angelic world triple chorus, and the heavenly mu of the threefold choir, If here the choirs of the lower world, each one, they correspond to each one. even that there is no string in the lower world that has no correspondence with that in heaven sti, then strings to the Angelic world; the secret of the secret of the Cabahs announced: There is no plant below which does not have a planet above saying if. br: grow up Chordàigiturin, inspired by any series of the world, continued with another heart- chorómm! ! the respondents will be animated into harmony by a certain hidden force and agreement, and to the angel, under these things, the knowledge of the whole ark of nature, the greatest sacrament, was revealed with the world Every one knows, by fitting one consonant to another, that he marvels at the results of things in nature it is known that he will perform It is true that, as he professes in our hieroglyphic music, God gives us to be discussed, we do not want to be more confused here; the rest is perhaps more obscure from A folded diagram presents the procedure more clearly for the eyes of the curious reader: In what you see the circle that surrounds all things signifies the eternal, immutable, immovable zxplication that Three circles three worlds Elemental, Coeiest Sc Angelicum, of which- sur. I divided the worlds into three circles, the degrees of beings and things, ending in semonftra-visi, they are seen These are all circles with a double pyramid, the first of which has a bright base spring tice CGeli Angelici siue lucidi; He established the pinnacle in the lower level of the world; the other fire ram? dcmy' itti its dark base in the lower level of the world, namely the first matter of all luceactuq; He set up private places, terminating at the summit of the angelic heaven; From where pre- Book X Decaccordon Nature. etc As the first world abounds in light, so the lower world abounds in darkness a day from each of them shares a portion of light and darkness, although not in supremacy He is not altogether above the darkness, nor inferior to the light; even if light in the lower world and darkness? in a certain way they are seen as absprptayjjiîtttr (chiaMLpeoitmš you will look inward, you will experience through the descent of vanity into the multitude, and the fcgreflum of the in the same way that in the highest Heaven all things, which are multitudes, are not themselves let them continue their unity; viz. j1? htplex, mortal in immortal, changeable in immutable, power incorruptible, part in, in m, Sffié'He ccetcris; you will find the opposite process in the world Qua; tifagli dif- if you ask with your intellect, you will look at the greatest, but the darkest light with the brightest light, and vf to the na itself the most secret ture But it is necessary, viz. , the vanity of each particular in its perfection you conceive, and according to the intention of the wickedness, you imagine the quality of darkness; from but you consider that the unity of the graduations is less than that of more darkness
of the multitude, he may obtain more power, more diuisibility; but she is greater, because she has more light, the more vanity, the more act and indivisibility obtains, for as much vanity is less in act the more impotence he eats, the more estranged he is. For the coming vanity is more perfect than vanity it is that the soul is united; it is more perfect than the body is united; because the end of the vanity of the body is from the soul ma? In which the corporeal depends on a certain principle, Time fail me ret, (I would like to explain the tongues of Fufus. But who can express in the words of fate the admirable-! that heavenly order of choirs, that beauty that is the of the giants is blessed rum harmony? that inexplicable supermundane concert, with which those voices; in the supreme insufficiency of the praise of God the sweetest organs perpetual with the lowest and the middle Do the choirs resound eternally in that great house of eternity? where Choragus Archimusur- He does the trinity of all things; where is that Spirit of holiness, of the air of God's fools or Gana will live forever. Who can express the number of these Mulles? whose com the preparation of the arena, which? on the shore of the sea, there is nothing; where not three, four or five, but The unfailing jymphony of innumerable voices? Saints in the beds of wires, the exultations of God in their throats, where no one praises in Muffici in carrying out hard work, there is no fatigue, no satiety, but the more they are perceived, so to fill the soul with a greater desire to perceive it continually. O what a beloved thy tabernacles, O Lord of the mighty, my soul faileth in the presence of the Lord, blessed are those who are here Let them live in your house, O Lord, in the dust of dust, they will praise you. Today? musically or some of the holy men of God are joined by a faint whisper, as if they were raptured out of heaven, by the fall of things Dismissing their dear love, they went to the deserts and caves of the mountains, I got my ears separated from the noise of worldly things to perceive this music They were more suitable, for it is true that the apostle says that the organ of divinity is eye has not seen, ear has not heard, it has not entered into the heart of man, what? Devs he prepared for the diligent faith; no one should doubt the strength of human genius in any way to be able to reach this supreme symphony of choral groups ears to earth? to those who are deafened by confusion, but where to us is eternity that day will dawn, then the ears of the deaf will be opened; As Augustine rightly says, then the soul of the faithful? in the organs of God the living will immediately be animated, then it will be revealed to the divine the concert of minds is not music, but something more excellent than all music; where with sweetness and gentleness, not harmonic, but above all harmony something sweet I will give This is Augustine. And let what has been said about Angelic Music suffice; then nothing does it remain, unless it is from the newspaper? to be! music, all the music of worldly dances folding, let's say something KING Everything in— I'm sorry give The music of St even the Trinity you Music Co? Jellies Country: Artis Magna Consoni Dijjoni
He i RE G I S T R V M X. On the Divine Music or Choir of Choirs, which is Sympho
vi X3 r. L. ib dofisn ness of God with different nature.
To the gracious and generous Lord D. Labaru Ff lium, Montis St. George the Free Baron
I know you as a generous man, always a supreme admirer of harmony U ritn; and of the benefits, which; once Rome; I remember that you contributed to me with a generous hand; then inspired by the beauty of your remarkable virtue, this last register of the world to your honor in? ; I have decided to write: you will have what you will be surprised by here, what you really want, in which the world of affairs Finally, blessed with happiness at last, may you rest in eternal rest.
ios&ttuuh 2inv iv fb j. : or
WCj, -oarbb ora i. cn J. iL' Ilicius E. sJ h J J i
r Giochio: :2rhxrrnrm alointlii Of the hierarchic harmony compared to the DEV M man, The Heavenly Father fashioned this mundane organ, by his wisdom blowing rite laxatistotius mundaniorganr up to now described registers, not all tan- mimpcie 'itksUS, nnsi. r mpnliKn? Qltooisdo with multitude
to meet It was clear from the preceding that the monad spread among the multitudes, how every- let the natural state meet the multitude, and dwell in it without contradiction, that is, that which torments the intellect, is that I am delayed by the fragility of our understanding, he died Come, you will give me a light inaccessible and hidden in the darkness of eternity, st surfiuS- And with the dust of your immensity; to the metics, we have shown this vnisonunrmusicis in various places: And the sure monas source it is the origin of all numbers, and thus of all consonances; so cute which, spread over the multitude, can in no other way meet than by means of the harmony of the nation, which is in multitude. Mine Plato, imitated Timasus Locrus, ani We have shown the fabric of the soul in the process, the fabric of the soul and the world through acceptance that is, he reached the cube of the ternary monad. For the first and supreme monas in the first namely, the ternary number is spread, as will be taught later, here the square nou- He completes the nostrils, by which number the orders of the intellects are separated, and the heavens are separated everything is distributed in perfect harmony; the ternary number multiplied cubically, or two shot in nine, twenty-seven come out. Which number vtoppidò mystical Scsiin- We have explained enough in the preceding scheme, because it is nevertheless full of divine harmony is, we think we should discuss it a little more thoroughly here. So there are twenty-seven but the classes of things produced into three enneads or nouenaries, (upper heaven, co distinct from the wretched and the mad; vnira is viewed in a certain connection. For from the archetype to the angelic world to the spheres, and from thence to the terrifying world of habitation, all those winds are consonant with the flame returning, he descends; for whatever is in each one, likewise in the rest of the suauiflGma proportion by the words and life; let the energy of the song respond. For it is DEVS in which we live we move and smoke, with the medium of that spirit which nourishes within, and the mind which stirs the mass of manufactured things, those truths which the Platonicists intended to be the soul of the world, which the members of the world vivifying the barmonica and assembling the harmony, the mundane ten-chavd concert red he says Lib. X. Decachvrdon Nature. 4rs says the consonants. This is the first Pythagoras' concert of the natural order. who is the bravest investigator; He nods to Naxagoras when he contemplates everything in everything Pythagoras returgion indeed in the fly of an ass, or in the worm of a camel: but the species vniufcuiuf- rumqîwll that they live in another wonderful kinship, viz. by a kind of society, and as if by Heracleotic bonds, each one to each individual, from which de He is a strange man of things, and this is indeed called the archatium more abstrusely Anaxagoras did not break out; But Pythagoras clarioridomin from ijs iììti stratus, qui il The Oracles first drew the spirit of the gods from the Egyptians, these from the Hebrews, they delivered more appropriately; but the Prophet himself; to the day of the established symposium, where they form examples of typica cincinna persuasiveness, Vftic sound in the same single word ex- how in they perceived that concert most clearly of all. Whom, however, we indi- Domnia Most of the worldly members of this tenacity are diffused, human; pressed by the weight of decay, we cannot perceive, except now by taking one now tone, all' in let's gather together the mind and spirit of the little created things let us perceive the concert with the artist a little more gently. How then those beautiful songs of the divinity in to be pledged, let faith be released, it remains to be said and to be folded. They recognized the admirable trinity flowing from the monad; force, not theologians, how both Christians, but Gentile philosophers; Aristotle, we have, says in the beginning vn, cas books from Heaven, the third number according to nature, and we uphold it as the law of mukirnd
fruitful as all things are arranged; From this we have a fruitful number of things spread everywhere, to celebrate the DEVM worker. For all things, whether spiritual or corporal, belong to the princes pious, of course, they consist in the middle and the end, which ternary I certainly cannot remove from that ineffable Tu- the beginning of the ternary world, to whom all things, in whom all things, and through whom all things, witness Apo stolo, draw For nature has presented to our eyes the clearest signs of them, by which; my eyes The language has not seen, nor has the ear heard, nor have they entered into the heart of man. If any We believe that nature itself is perfect; it is necessary to admit that it is one and three, when in in every natural thing some one shines forth, and the divine is expressed; The number of the triad, Let every trinity be perfect; God is the ear of all, the workman, the author and creator of all things. (necessarily) we are forced to assert that it is the same, triune, and perfect, for it is every creature of the gods, and as he said, a particle of divine air, every creature tura, vtpotèdiuina; the very image and character of goodness, the day of perfection and— It is necessary to bear the footsteps of the vanquished. Let us therefore discuss the nature of the whole; degrees let us thoroughly examine the nature of things, and marvel at its particulars; the footsteps of the triad re- Inadamo We will gaze with wonder at each printed bus. The first production of man in the Trinity He began to move the monads, which, diffusing each other, produced Eve; from both- Jt3lslima tn' Abel, who was born, completed his genealogy in a humane manner, which he He propagated the genealogy in father, mother, and son. Prrereà rational ani but the most indivisible substance, without self-sufficiency, productive, numerous, in the intellect bed, memory, and will discreet; Understanding is not memory, nor will you memory is neither the understanding nor the will; neither the will nor the understanding that memory, they are nevertheless one and the same soul; a substance distinguished by three relations. It is again, every soul is triune, rational, sensitive, and vegetative; The understanding is triune, divine, Angelic, human, the former, the mind, the second intellect properly, take the account we say stress. Let the tree be joined to a stick, and be divided into branches, of which there are three to the tree it brings forth so much; leaves, flowers, fruits. There are three sizes, interval, length, Ulta$- width, depth, which; they correspond to the line; to the surface, to the body, to all bodies. a common measure of what is conceivable; ; there are three first; especially; numbers linear, superficial corporeal, denarii, centenary, millennial from the simplest point fcu monads flowing forth, as we have shown in the previous chapters; penny line, hundred A square surface corresponds to a cubic body. Countless bring to this place I could, in fact, of this triad in the degrees of all beings, but let us study with brevity, the choice of our demonstration; we assume the target. Artis Magate Consoni Dtfioni [What you! IV' On the Music of God T gathered together with the angelic orders. or burned u fly o! oì Dan Df: t1UlDi
God has arranged the world with every one of them, by number, weight, and measure, by which he oramai derT&men La: fupraexcelfe carry the trace of the Triad, for the number from that stigmata monad steal and they have the source of all numbers; weight from that wisdom, which? loaded libratsmety I will steal from that Artificer's spirit, who distributes to each a suitable portion. Hine ma he asks for monasticism; The order or weight of the mind or wisdom; Souls, indeed, or mustard gas: measure and movement; this nicely explains Plato's riddle to Dionysius RSgerus, pronunciatimi: All things are around the King of all, by his grace I myself make all things beautiful for the cause of all things: for all things are connected with the King by his vanity, and by his grace, gm. Thus all things are weighted, and all things are ordered to him, he or he counting all things and in proportioning the cause of all the beautiful, it is as efficient as the final &government supporting and sustaining the principle, he meditated on the end of the day. all things, in him all things, and in him all things established, rest; DEVS indeed sphta
he is, whose center and every power is the Father; But the circumference is by mistake There is no place to hold its immensity, nor is it wisdom; But the mutual relation of the center and circumferences or radii, signifies reciprocal spirit and love. day Since, therefore, the first and supreme monas are three, from the three archetypal devices emanate Every should not have been, unless it had been arranged in trine order and in sonorous number; for everything is perfect the third harmony of the sun must consist of three voices, the lowest, the middle, and the highest, qstasyni- mum, the first harmony, beautiful is seen in these three numbers vbinj-fe it has by way of monadism and isophon the origin of all consonances, The harmony which belongs to God the Father. to i related by means of an octave or diapason, Eiho; vero ceicir5 îta diapente relates, and the spirit belongs to the connecting virtue, for the sure means the diapent voice connects the lowest and the highest in the harmony of the three voices, so also the Spirit the Father the Son], the prince) the end are connected in an incomprehensible harmony to which the ineffable fcundilsimse of the Triad how it is propagated must be explained. So the simple ternary of the simple DEO- It is attributed to dung, which, being the supreme power of Scindiuifa, was, however, hypostased in three ways How a certain human mind spreads indescribably. This ternary outside itself population The trias mmui- leaving the triplatus, produces a wonderful symphony of three Enneads. he signed the new Angelic orders, the new Heavens, the new bodies and the Elemental nature are poured out; ge black That all things are accomplished with a penny, not without a surprising mystery, as will be said hereafter. Now I was a squared ternary, or a ternary in a square, this is the new leadership of the pro-r leads to the most mysterious number of all all the Ennead complete, all feTan spreads itself by propagation into the three triads of the intellectual world, thus vt ordoseraphic Ord inflamed by the love of St. Tria, I connected the Spirit with the love of the Father and the Son; Cherubim order. Wisdom Full of knowledge, supreme Wisdom-, Son; But the order of thrones belongs to the Father, who As the psalmist testified that he set his throne in judgment, so he will tell through the Son in the same way Orb, and this indeed is the triad of perfection and similitude of GOD; with the highest truth it is the good of his diffusions, hence through the triad he produced another triune order, vt through them the lower creatures in a perfect and harmonious order, or the prince and workman above the mouse would rule; and the Father indeed is the Lord of all by the order of Dominions he controls every state of the world's politicians; by the order of the Powers the Son, to whom from the Father all power is given in heaven and on earth, he administers all things in due order. By man the safe order of the Spirit of the mouth of God in all their strength, that is, all of them move Book X Decachord Nature.
He brings about the confirmation of all the virtues, and since the trinity is triune. He communicates with reason, both man and all things, and for this reason he produced the trine He wanted to govern by degree. In principalities, indeed, empires, kingdoms, and provinces c Archangels themselves Kings and Princes; But in the Angels the care of each man— He decided to have it, and it was done, as if the DEVS had made it fruitful for us through the tripartite monad established order of Angels, so that we pass through them m DE VM like a certain ladder la we could climb a little; For you are certainly Dionysius thesic, not only by understanding inferior nations, but we can also be purified, enlightened, and perfected by superiors: and by the constant exercise of all the virtues of the Hierarchical minds of the consorts of the IZn degrees to be done according to that degree of virtue, to which it is most vigorous for us, if indeed the mind of GOD we will properly tune our decachordon to the angelic decachordon; for if virtù- nuir tis chorda chorda hierarchic corresponding until then we will consider, vt perfectè already conforming to the terms of the order, the powers attributed to the said order by the god Arcsnum- The holy men of God, the doers of wonderful works, existed in secret Theologies
Teachers report. For if the pursuit of similar virtues conforms us to some order, how? we shall endeavor, by the force of safe consonance to be purged from dissonances, to easily confound him mouse Hence some of the holy men of God, with the ardor of divine love, in the Seraphim, some of them With the divine contemplation of the Cherubinos they said: They were not lacking who were ever present May your divine patients be taken to thrones. For many from each Order After the angels had fallen, it was necessary to assume others for their establishment; to no one else; except next to men that degree of prowess which he had contributed to the lands of the Devas themselves. It is clear from this, too, why DEVS has instilled in the people the fear of the Prince. Why subjects Is not the King a man like other men? yet we see that all of them are naturally the highest to be subject to reluctance and fear, which indeed could not be done by any reason, except that DEVS pgS I was a character of fear, with which the Prince was sealed. I am compelled by a certain secret force, they are subsisting That all through the Principality the order of those supreme princes is executed. But if, in fact, through an unworthy fcele-i Vnd and brought a contaminated life for themselves Kings and Princes both of God and of Principalities in- &transla-: they have put up a barrier to the flow. Behold, at once the veil, destroyed by the sins of the people, give it to the Prince again. with the character of the fear of God, the people are swayed from consonance to discord, and rebellions rise. tur, and you begin with P, as if it were the character of the fear of God, the rejection of the unworthy. therefore changes of empires, transfers of kingdoms, principalities. public The extirpations of rum have no other origin than that which we have said; So he remembers A prince should thus organize his life, thus his soldiery, let the governors of the Archangels always propitiate him; without whom you are eternal The weapons and a{fistentia do not rule, nor the Ruler to subsist The same reason DEVS He impressed upon even the most ferocious animals the character of fear, that is to say, upon man for whose sake they were created, were, and obeyed. we see the weaker strength of the boy or a huge Elephant, and the most ferocious Lion, to guide, control, rybs, and wherever he wills to lead imperiously, and to obey him in all things, of my own free will submerging himself in all things. Certainly not for any other reason than that the system of order is so ntsubmu' to prescribe, and because the character of the fear of God impressed on man, he compels all things to be subject to him. They are regarded in the same way as animals, because one animal is afraid of another, even if it is bore and size was much lower than that (vt. the elephant the ram, the rooster the lion) caused it, which they are under the protection of a higher order, and bear the character of principality, which the lower by natural instinct, as long as they know, they are repelled; You see, then, that everything is wonderful xu coniunctconsoneut And this concert shines forth even in the accidental things themselves, (fi EucntusmL something in nature can be said to be fortuitous and casual) tificis, the eagle loosed its bonds by flying a little before the election of the said Pontiff by the Dragon in the image, which contains the insignia of the gentility of the Burghers, seated, from the same family Designate the election of the Pope; for it came to the mind of some that he wanted it, DEVS per M m m Ange- Artu Magna Confoni Dijjoni The principality of the angels, by the augury of the prince of the bird, indicates the principality of the world. The earthly principality, dissonant from the fcest, and the ugly, must sit in harmony with himself and with others, and through this consonance acquires beauty and beauty What is the ministry of Virtue necessary to the Prince, and this Virtue is effected by the order, with the support of which co let them flow with ready constancy and strength, strong against vices and vexations into men. the wall But if we are full of envy and malice against these aerial powers, fu- The protection of the heavenly and divine Powers is necessary for us; Nor even
We are hindered by the powers of the worldly affections, but they are harmoniously subjugated to the rational appetite influence we were to dominate ourselves, the assistance of the Dominions was necessary for us. So of all things that having obtained the dominion of the inferiors, it remains, vtad DEV M cóuersi we alone vacate. -What. Dominion if we retain the memory of the superheavens through the support of Thrones, the same may we contemplate the influx, with cherubic illumination, until we are at last kinsman and parent above, divine monads? we are driven by Seraphic ardor; whence how by Ange the maker of things descends upon us by his power; so by the same to the nettle, from which we have advanced, let us return, as it were, through certain degrees of the virtues, the first of which is ra The sense of the degree of national nature unites us to the Angels, the imagination to the Archangels, ti death to the Virtues, pain to the Powers from sins, reason to the Principalities, for this is the spirit a bus so reason presides over the senses and affections, love over dominions, the intellect over the throne. The intelligence of the Cherubim, and Hope, in short, comes to the Seraphs, for these are closely related adDEVM, who is the hope of all the ends of the earth You see, then, that these orders of ministers attending the supreme tribunal of Harmosta are, as it were, they strive to bring everything into harmony with their leader. The angels joined together in singing, and they themselves, like the heavenly musicians, all the choirs modulating and voicing iti fummo according to that monochord of GOD, to render it harmonious things suaiffimumq for if there are any useless sides, or disagreeable modules, let them get rid of them, cancel them they give and reprove, neither in the mundane, heavenly or human polychord is there anything discordant! it is repaid therefore all rejoice in the moving father, as Dionysius testifies, to GOD indeed to thee they move the world, and these give our bodies and the rest of the lower bodies to that consonance they assert, however, that he is the first Motor of all things. . I I I Of the harmony of the Ennead with the heavens, as with the Hierarchical Ennead ca makes T Nature is the Author and Worker of a smaller world, for whose sake all things are had been done, the most absolute harmony had been established, another one of them moved s cele You are indeed the systems of the world, by the influence of which the lower world is governed; heaven the first Empyreum, the starry heaven or firmament, the globes of Saturn, Louis, Mar tis, Sun, Friday, Wednesday), Ltine. But with this body you are from yourself and your nature he felt inanimate, and were incapable of motion: he attributes to each his Intelligences, for which reason (The power, moved by various motions, produces various effects, according to the exigencies of the fulunary world. rentat(lue and (pò corporeaenatur$ constitution, depending on the influx of superior bodies he would give it to the people. But the intelligent assistants of Heaven would take care of the disposition of souls; heavenly EO Chorago the highest of the highest the lowest, the middle of the highest in one most perfect hanno, collecting the niam The truth is that the harmony of the individuals is more clearly revealed. First note, that there are nine heavens, the imperial heaven of the third King's court above the world Cfleiu àua that mover's house of all, that from the order and infinite light is not inconsistent with itself it corresponds to the order of the pyreumse- tapiuuri; from which A all the illuminations of souls, as from petit, 'n, sco fonlequoda vberrimmo proceed.
according to Secondly, the sky follows the stars and firrnamehtitin, in which QpifâS mm-shouldered the instruments of the Eciendarmn spread themselves, and many of the Cherubric order intelligent Qua; to undergo he agreed: for the stars are nothing but a cloud of ideas in the human soul like what? Terno globus rectè ThronÌ5siue; intelligenriže SchabraelconUenityNam virfiìtò it generates in us a firm, fixed and unshakable prudence, pra? tereain the throne of his plans fixed to veil-hgarsvndè Iiaud end caufàab abtaidomi- breis $cbabtai, this is that I said to him that everything in the sublunary world is na in fe Fourthly follows the groups, which by nature and by virtue of the beautiful dance of the Dominions it matches For it is a beneficent planet, Kegius and full of majesty, under which Intel is born
Dominion and dominion promise in tdligen tia, but the right justice of the same con- kiejS, 2â bearing Under his rule, at the ends of the united world, things reeked of the Jouial nature tes subijciuntiir lin ob. I. nFiniUidimmari A group follows you, who, due to a certain fiery and dusty force of the best Virtues, He quotes: the fire in us by his power while burning bile, to the arduous roads with ease Iuperab- daS, makes fit, increases strength and fortitude; hiiicglobo everything of the lower wall. Mar- miei. , those who are possessed by nature are brought into subjection. Globus, the middle body of the world has obtained, so not unlike the King and the Prince Iotcll-. V: tiusy'omnia vjhute He controls himself by his own power, where the best reason is in the middle order of Po- soliVsdiT- He met the testified, but his intelligence is in us the life, the prosperity, the glory that he produces; solar nature? in the sublunar world the bodies are in perfect harmony with this, as elsewhere;
Globe is square to the benevolent and most beautiful planet of the Principalities, whose intelligence tia Haniel instills in us the love of the most beautiful things, grace and benevolence: om- VenerisHa- it contributes to this group, protection? and its Intelligence? Are all things natural? which day, nae1, analogies corresponding to those which they name Venus, vt in the previous ones, it was shown-# it was
The globe of the Archangel is aptly composed, for I am sure of the Archangel with the image student, thus L Mercury vocal numbers, formal rational in coruntiem-confo- îhabicl. I will labor to bring back the nanriatti; especially the composition of rational numbers. with the divine; doretque Cccâbiél Intelligence cius veiain tone: 01 diam vnionem with DhO, ani does he hardly try to bring those consonances into which are perpetually joined to him? sc- they burst forth into perpetual hymns and praises of that maid's stern. To whom all I subluor the mercuiiaha of the jubilant world.
We have conquered it, and it is the group of the heavenly Enneads, where it is best with the Angels among the intelligences the last nine lines. ,consonant; for as this is near to us, so also to the Angels; safe lunar Lc- The moon receives the energies of all the higher planets in the common sublunar world candas, so the illuminations of the angels, received from the wolf's superior minds, are brought down upon us. Innumerable things could be said in this place about the influx of special virtues, but with this Theolos gia? hierogly phica? we will return, at that time we will send back the Reader. Did you see the Enneads first? I was admitted to a concert with a kindred spirit rabili; Now how in the third ennead, or in the ternary square, you unite all the world Let us see that the artist has produced all kinds of creatures. Monas therefore the first, the principle of all, unfolding itself in time into a dyad, in it increased the definite duality or matter; indeed from the monad and the duality of the name ri, out of numbers points, out of points a line? which solid bodies flowed forth, namely, the four primary elements of the foundation of things, these, of which, with In the first register it has already been discussed, we do not want to be more confused here, but so let us show the light in this place, in what manner the diet of four and five elements is mixed the degrees of beings constitute the third ennead, and how the elements are not in the body.
Mmm crime Maùirìè Narde How monas in Artii Magna Finimi Dijjom only the real nature, but also the intellectual enneade, nay GOD in his own way, as the Musician let the concept of the world with the Archetype be more clearly revealed, let them be found; Ennead con do they hold four elements with five bodies? the steps of nature; which combined no which, as follows, they constitute: Earth, Water, Air, Fire: Stones and Metals plants, zoophytes, brute animals, man, of which the lower world consists; Which yet, though corporeal, yet the most powerful creator and harmonious one with such harmony He connected the other two worlds, so that each one is in its own way in each of the worlds. It is the base and establishment of the lower world. gefoTcieUs', There is an earth in the Heavens, as we have shown in the second Register, there is also an earth in the Angels in. ..
his earth 'as firm as God's seats and his footstool; is in the Archetype of all only firmness and second nature, according to that: Let the earth perish and the Salvationists sprout: It is I continued with light and clear elemental water, purifying everything. in cxlis There is also in the heavens water irrigating the earth with its influx, and a kind of intermingling virtue. its upper waters; But in the workman the water of salvation, by which sins are washed away, man is a king it is spun, it is cleaned, it is examined. It is air- we breathe, see, hear smell elementary air; and there is air in it. to all, that nature is a transparent matter, exposing the worldly adornment and riches to the eyes; is in An7, the sword of the world's ice; where the concert of happy minds resounds, vital, breath and aura thin In the workman the highest and most perfect life and spirit, which breathes into all, viz. and when they have recovered, it is given away.
fire in om As for the elemental fire with us, this is the Sun in the sky; this in the hierarchical mun mbus then the Seraphic ardor, and a fiery onslaught, according to that: Who makest your angels spirits, let your servants be a burning fire, this in the archetype of ideal fire and light by ritual, by which all things are born, fixed, sustained, nourished and increased. They are there there are certain elements in DEO seminars ideas of things to be produced, seminars- first origins Powers distributed among the angels; In heaven the analogous virtues, .in na ture of the seeds of things; in the lower world in a thicker form; And from this is born that wonderful concert of the world, in which the earth and the moon, earth-, heavenly: water with Air with fire with Sun Mars; Stones again with metals with Zoophyta with Mars, insects with the Sun, Volus with Venus children amphibious, with quadrupeds; all with wonderful sympathy they are in harmony, both with each other, and with the rational soul, of which Enneas is collected from sen with their exteriors, their interiors apparently in a common sense, imaginative, appetitive, ra national are terminated to the understanding as to the tenth, to which and other things Enneas is purer in simple numbers, that is, of the order of the Angels met, so that in him there is full An the image of the gods, and ends in the tenth spring, that is, the supreme and the Father. And it has a threefold operation completely consonant and harmonic with mu I give this to the inferior in nature, with cazles in the senses; with angels in understanding. In the dark it emerges through the simple power of the soul, into the Ennead through senses, corporeal incorporeal, in the twenty-seventh year, he reached the idea of the entire confumation, while understanding, everything is done. Corollary. ides igitufjquomo in our harmonic scheme, through the unity of the whole world perfection is denoted: by binaries, the variety and multitude of things contained in it degree through the ternary the analogous vanities in the stern triad, all in a suitable proportion connecting, through the Ennead, the connections of the three different Enneads explained a little before couple; and so by the cube, which the Pythagoreans call harmony, the harmony of the whole, from a simple number, a square and a cube are completed, when the walnut tree grows long, wide and deep, after the natural growth extend Lib. X. Decachordon Nature.
cannot be extended. DE VS, therefore, existing itself as the vanquis, into the multitude, because the vanities in the nu it is merely diffused, from which it never recedes from what is proper and peculiar to itself; nay, from this vanity gathering all the worldly faith into one and gives birth, even and odd words, that is, of genera, species, individual and the harmony reduced to one; while according to a certain portion, anyway in double proportion, to others in treble, to some in quadruple, to some in half ra or sesquitertia, with some even in the sesquioctave or sesquinone proportion Nice: . And necessarily from various diapason, disdiapason, diapason with diapente, diapente, diatessaron, tones, and other constitutions of consonances, various harmos nic compromises result; Fourthly, however, the connection of the mixture
He alone will know, who will be able to truly say with Ecclesiasticus: He gave me theirs, qut consummation and half of time, permutations of vices, consumptions of time rum, changes of manners, dispojîtioncs of saddles, natures of animals, angers of beasts of the winds and the thoughts of men, the differences of the branches, the virtues of the roots, etc I have learned that they are hidden and hidden; While or through the vengeance of the Holy Spirit all things are manifested by pleasure, or by the kiss of death, as the more secretive theologians speak, or, according to the Platonists, by contact with a certain extension of the ideas of the first intellect itself able to do all things in the recipient from which contact, as if from a certain meeting with images are taken, the species of things are brought forth, the soul is awakened, and the amber is purified let the nectar flow from Lethzeus, induced by contagion; you see under this harmony of things by the constitution of the divine mind Archimuf, that all things were in harmony with musical numbers: and with all the perfection of things I have settled in the perfect mixture and temperance of things it stands, there will never be an abstruse in the nature of a mysterious thing, which one pushes by consonance sounds in the polychord system of this world according to the previous rules not to be penetrated. I will reveal the secret in very few words. Enneachord animx to the Hierarchical Enneachordon, but the body is brought back to the heavens and the stars by ìoóyuvo, and you will penetrate, as I said, the secrets of the secrets of divine and human things the most absolute notice, according to that God of John: nosomnia They teach this wonder of the supermundanes of that stage with the world preceding the music, a figure or scheme, in which, as if in a synopsis, a certain, whatever hu until it has been said, you will find content; There is nothing here about the inner peace of happy minds— And with the tranquility of the soul and the dances, I will say, nothing of the incomprehensible of the Angels and of men in that eternal symphony of Archimusacus Odaeus, surely all of this mun God, the appearance and pleasure of the most beautiful things compared to him, what else is there? if the poor straw, the rotten straw, and a little sand of a kind of excrement terrg? Every bottom ginable, which human genius never found, harmony and music all the instruments of harmonics conceivable the excellence and perfection of the man's voice, compared to that supreme music they are something else, than the most discordant roaring of wolves, the howling and grunting of wolves of pigs? softness; except stench, bitterness, and mere impurity the most eminent disposition, such as the eye has not seen, nor the ear heard, nor the heart came up with threats; so the same cannot be explained by any conception of words, nor by any felicity of style It cannot be made clear by its obscurity, nor can it be penetrated by the most profound scrutiny of the mind not of three, four, five, but of the ineffable symphony of the most eminent voices moved the Court of the Heavenly King and the hall of the supermundane Saints classes, ve Some of the strings placed in the choirs will resound in perpetual trinities; where the chorus Vir gin, the choir of the Confessors, these of the Martyrs, the Apostles, and the Patriarchs in the choir chanting, all at the same time agreeing with the tripartite hierarchies of the Angels at pe Reindeer the spring of the water of life I will sing thee in exultation to God, and in the highest song, through his wisdom, a symphony Music for a long time flag How we are paid omniscient Secret— harmonious of all the greatest Incorporating over there! that god I give and his life music four hundred me ifswt directing, I was the spirit of the mouth animating the organs, modulâbuntu r; vli Agno'm'DHI, .quMa a new song; it is to be admired that vcibi-DMI with human nature m vtevo immacie latg Epithalamium hymenamm of the betrothed Virgin; where the labors and the artillery in this world, for the love of God, the remembrance of those who were exalted, I included something discordant ternje blessedly and with the power of the consonance mixed with Fyncopatum into the sweetest of all.
It will coalesce in perfect harmony. O unhappy lot of those who are led astray and the momentary calamitous life of this good, to the noise of worldly ambition, im- and worldly affections and pleasures the most disconcerting catadupes with the hope of reaching it, the music which we have described will some day be perceived from they fall! O great Hannosta of things, who difpo all things in number, weight, and measure snow arrange the soul of the mexenne-chordon juxtadiviuina? according to your will cite all my souls and nerves to the praise and glory of the name of the Seraphic ardor I love you, with the cherubic scrutiny of my mind, I incest you three times, Where do you eat and drink in the south? He is present before the Dominions, the Virtues and the Stotestas star You will set the principality over all animg untamed and rebellious affection the crowd, as Angelica continued for you in purity of the seruian. for thy sweet and thy beautiful face, arrange in me that harmony of virtues, quarcuz thou hast disposed in thee, and in the highest virtues from the beginning, vit proceeding from tone to tone to the tune of all the virtues, and the whole perfection I will reach the fullness, and this protected by the garrison of virtues, on a ten-chord psaltery I praise you, praise and glorify the starch of starches, Amen-, i VI! . I Epilogue of the whole work
Veusqué, therefore, of the Creator's Opr. Max. marveling at the harmonic structure of the world ra works, as far as the strength of the genius would permit, was done; it remains for a few minutes and with your hands removed from the table of demonstrations, and lifted up to heaven the Father of light? whether a devoted flexible compreer; eternal creator and worker of wisdom, who by the light of nature you promote in us the desire for light for free, and you transfer us to the lost O thou light of glory, I thank thee, because thou hast delighted me in thy works of thy hands I make myself lcisicastsigrari, that in the hidden ode of thy divinity You brought me in, where you stole my heart and my ears with your infinite sweet whistle or a thin whistle You have filled my heart, so that it is partly gone, that you may not be ashamed of all the corruption of the earth God, I would be deaf to the tumultuous tumults of the fallen and dumb, and now I will finish the work those professions, with so many powers of genius, which you have given me; I manifested gloriala Let men read my lucubrations of your works, as much as they are infinite the distresses of my mind could take such a magnitude; sacred sermon, hymn God, the founder of the absolved, have this piety in mind, not like the hecatombs of the bulls I would grind, burn perfumes, and cassia, but I would first learn by myself, then by a I would teach him how much wisdom, how much power, what kind of goodness he has; I will for whether he wishes to spread it, and not to intrude on it in the meanest way, I always teach the most confumatic goodness while; if anything unworthy of your counsels has been brought before me, I am a worm in the coils of sinners bro nafo& unnourished, what you have seen men to know; to inspire that too, that is, to buy it with dignity laugh: If I have fallen into rashness with the wonderful beauty of your works, or if I I was followed by my own race among men, while I progressed in the work intended for the protection of my glory I am for which I implore you to pardon me with involuntary clemency; may this work of harmonious meditation yield your glory and the salvation of souls You are worthy to make it more propitious. LAVS GOD VIRGINIQJE MOTHER, Gap INDEX thus, in which: in Tomi l. Mufurgia: Vniuerfalis The seven books in which it is established are contained: FIRST On the Nature of Sound and Voice.
CHAPTER I. On the Definition of Sound. P4g. i II. On the limit of production.
De S abietto fatfuto foni.
IV. Of Bodies, to the end of Geneva both actually and fibiettiu concur. On the warijs species end. About next. the main goal DigresT Vtrum in Vacuo pojfitfieri finta VII On the Organ of Hearing and its Anatomy. Cheap Of the DAcHs of the individual parts of the acoustic organ. Where and how the hearing should be done properly.
a X. De rvocis 'Natura ac Cjenefi. XI. Anatomy of the Organ of the Mouth.
XII. De ararijs uocum dtfferentijs. XIII On the Analogy of the Focal Organ with the Pneumatic Instruments. XIV. On the natural voices of animals. . On the of animals in general. f i w
Zlr. z. On the confirmation of the voice of an animal of a certain American, the said laziness, z6. Of Philomela.
Of the voices of the rest of the birds. .6. 7. 8. On the rvocs of the sane, the cicadas, the locusts, and the crickets. T FProblems about the sound of the voice
Appendix dfe Phonognomy. me z o i. Of the judgment acconietturi, which about the temperament of each body from the fine
can be made by the same word.
L I B E R S E C V N D V S On the Music and Instruments of the Hebrews and Greeks. CHAPTER I. On Music I nuent ion e.
II. De INDEX C A P I T V M. II. About the object (fissubalternation Music. III. Aduste on the definite fis IV. On Music and Music
Dss InBrumentis Poly Chords FI drunk. . z. "De lnfirummtu pulsattlibus Hebrgorum. De InBrumenùs Pneumaticis Hebrgorum. . Of the of these Inflraments among the Hebrews. . Of Mufii'tó more famous among the Hebrews. On the Music of David. In the song of David's psalm (be what kind of song was written (int. De Titulipsalmorum. . z. On the verses of the Acroflychis psalms. . On tropes, figures, and the poetic art hidden in the psalms. Of the kind of meter in which the psalms are composed. . On the modern music of the Hebrews. Of music, and of the instruments of the ancient Gracians. . i. ? in the manner of singing Greeks at risk. . z. O Odes of Lyrics, (be the material of Poems, (be of the laws of muficf. . 7)f inUrumentis tvfit but it once among the Ancients. On the theme, perfection, and diotis of music in the Old VII. On modern Greek music.
The doctrine of harmonic numbers. A j.
CAP. I. Of the proportions of numbers, and their definitions, and di- uifions included in the Propositions.
II. Comprehend both arithmetical and harmonic proportions in propositions. III. Logific Propositions explained.
IV. On Irrational Numbers.
VII, De interuallamm harmonicorum (senes Propositions explained. Vili, On the origin of the musical system, and of tetrachords
Oe harmonic algorithm, or about njoc in each scale by numbers organization
XI. Oe of consonant numbers Algorithm Declared by propositions. XII. Of the division of the tone. IjC& m î M. I
(L i. De speciebus generis, ,C, sr Of the genus
XIV. De Jpeciebus d ta tesaron, diapente, diapason. v va y among the ancients. . Of the number
BOOK QV ART V S. v. Vv-iv. uwd
t h On the Geometrical Division of the Monochord.
II. What is Monochord? Ihd ò MI. Of the Geometrical Progression, and of its Consonant Continuity rum harmonica IV. by the simple division of a monochord by Geometry z propositions
there; V. On the division of a monochord by algebra, given by several propositions, themes in a new method. -a-avvay Y va vr. ygj On the diatonic monochord, the stop iption of Ptolemais' whistled diapason, i VII. On the division of the monochordi diatopics juxt&physiema disdiapason.
Viy, the Demonochordi divisioniupta the chromatic genus. Wa a zoo i uLX On the division of the monochord ivx. ta genus jnharmonicum. . t. ii Of Insitamente to the most suitable division of any chord. XI. On the geometrical division of any interval into quotient parts, zo$ V. Xil. Of the dichotomous Insirumento to any consonance in z, the parts gqua'
I am apt to divide them. .iV "uvv
certain melodies of every kind to be composed. , and demonstratively radon.
CHAPTER I. On the efficient, material, formal, and final cause of JymphoniurgU. ziz II-
Was music composed of equal voices known to the ancients? ibid. IIf. About the music, what kind of flat music do they play?
About Music Shaped. ibid. On the parts of the symphony.
De Confonantis, and at intervals to melothefie nece (sarijs. zo No. i. De I. N D E SCI C A I T V M. . I. On the division of consonances.
j. izxi from z. A detailed description of the concordances. ràz
dissonant tijs, fiu interuallts dsons and their nature (squalitate. zi6 VII. Of the seven ways, and their number and quality.
ibid. . i. On the division of Tones, and arrangement both harmonic and arithmetical,
On the Confluence and Transposition of the Various Tones. . On the chromatic constitution of tones, A' enharmontca. zz z. How the tone in any song is to be known.
Cheap Df rsâ Cantus so Gregoriani, Figurati. On the division of Contrapunelli.
Of Sjymphoniurgi's rules in general.
XI. On the practice of sontrapunfti, or of another simple composition Of the composition of two words,
On the composition of three names.
On the composition of four words. . On the composition of five words On the composition of On the composition of the seven, (ss otio with ajunftis rules. xj XII. On the use of imperfect consonants. . On the dew of the Tertiaries: Ibid. . Regarding the tithes. . Z. On the Sextars, Hexachords.
XIII On the multiple use of dissonances in composition. . Determining the value of notes and signs in the measurement of time. ibid. . On the prerequisites for reconciling dissonances.
XIV. On the placement of dissonances are rendered.
x8z. z. De quaru i. On the seventh. . On the fourth question: .5. De semidiapente, fiu fifth diminished.
Tsgula desyncopatione dissonances.
On the lawful and unlawful development of consonances and dissonances i. On the progression from unison to The progression of the minor third to all other consonances. .3. On the progress d ditono to (g the rest. . How he can pass to the minor third (ss major. Of the Contrapuncle Florid simple, or diminished. ox On the various composition of several names in ContrapunBo Florido.
X Vili Of o4, (ss admirable ContrapunBi by combinations in by establishing a system. I N D E X G A P4 T V M. . r. The diatribe of ContrapunBo. ?
r. On ContrapunBo diatefiaron. . z. De ContrapunBo hypo-uet hyperdiapente. On ContrapunBo diahex. ,5. De ContrapunBo diahepta. . On the ContrapunBo diapason. . On ContrapunBo hypodiadecato. H. De ContrapunBo hypodiaendecato; H. De ContrapunBo hypodiadodecato. H. o. On the Counterpoint diatridecato On ContrapunBo diatetradecato. H. i De ContrapunBo disdiapason De Figuris, fis Tropis harmonica m cantilena ferurandi. Of the Principal Figures. z. Of artifice, of infusing. . Of partial imitators. Of the periodical symphonies. . On the canons by unison. . z. De XXI Of AagD children, (jFimitantibusi Of the more secret method of the Canons, THE BOOK OF SEXTVS
On Inftmmental Music.
On Chordosophy, or on the nature, property, and causes of sound through strings excited
CHAPTER On the causes and properties of tones in strings explained by theorems. 4ZZ II. On the origin of consonances in chords explained by T theorems.
III. On the Chordotomy Art.
THE SIXTH PART On polychord instruments. CHAPTER I. Of the manufacture of Clauicymbals, and of their divers Abacus, or Tasiatur. screw Of Thee study, Manderà, Cythard, and Chely, (fise. fis seqq -jB PART THREE Of the pneumatic instruments, animated by fire, mustard, and wind. CHAPTER I. Concerning certain suppositions.
II. De diuìfone pneumatic instruments. . i. De Fijiula Trifioma. . L. On Fistula Hexasoma. . z. Of Tubes, and their properties. oL. De Lituis, Vtriculis, (esc. mouth III. Of the Organs, and their Ruelure and Properties. . Of the parts of the Organ, . z. Dr. The proportion of open pipes per o. Problems explained. PART QV ART. Of the Crustic Citadel, the fire of the Inftruroent's fluffy ones. CHAPTER I. Df end, and harmony to be gathered from different woods.
Of the Bells from the manufacture of the arum and the vfu. v
III. Of tympans, cymbals, and other composed instruments, INDEX OF CAPITALS BOOK SEPTI M Ancient and Modern Music PART ONE Erotema What kind of music was the music of the Greeks. . Of the myflic fly of old. z. Of the sacred fly of the ancients. II. III. Which of the ancients was the fly of many voices? IV. To these Notis muscis vf fnt the old ones. The fly of the ancients was more perfect, and the fly was more precious noyum. DeFcorica fly among the old. . z. Of the ancient-modern vocal fly. . Ancient-modern depolyphony. . On the music of ancient-modern influence. Or, (fs. ) how the old minds moved with their flies. VII. How does the harmonic number move people? Should the vile Vtrum diuerfiTom diuerfis ajfethbus answer? If2 Ibid.
part INDEX C APITVM.
P A R S E C V N D Ai On the mode of performing modern music, its abuse, etc lack of improvement.
Of the Eeclefosic Cantus in dignity and excellence a.
III. Of the dignity of the Gregorian Chant, and its abuse, IV. The mafia figures in modern abuses! . Al CX j Of the unfaithful, who so[ent] to commit m modern compositions eCz
P A R S T E R T I A, co Of Pathetic Music, and that it should be properly instituted in the manner and reason!
Z'i. j a CAE On the true cause of the various affections of the Eleusis stirred up by the fly.
IL On the nature of fears to excite djfcElus aptorum, tO LILI v' L (j III. To order the place, the time, and the conjlitwtionc to excite the ajfeclus. . The conditions required to excite His affection. . z. Of a place fit for pathetic music, . z. About the time mufica, vt to be drawn from the century, to be presented IV. Of melothefies pathetic practice. Of the vanity of Hylorus's harmonic art, that is to say. Ait-r reason to be inflated becomes a pathetic fly Vt ejfeElum lotiatur On the Affection of Love
S. On the casting of pain. . Examples of ajfeiius Uti, (be joyful, . Examples of painful ajseElus, H. j. Of the other ajfeEli of indignation, wonder, despair, (treasure Of the licentious flies, or of the sight of certain dissonances. Cheap Of the Chromatic Compositions, and declared examples. Of the change of tone, fiue of the metabolic phthyle.
Of the signs, M numbers, with which both the ancients and the modern times must, y express
Epilogism D? mufica J
Nnh SERIES SER AND ORDER T O M I S E C V N D I Who VIII. X. The Book of Musurgiat Universal
BOOK EIGHT On the Miraculous Artifice, a new and very easy artifice to compose any songs. . snoiisiDfiojhoÉî ìlatàLs -fi PART ONE. Of the yarijs of the kinds of combinations ad Mufurgia onlookers V. CyV i CHAPTER On the 'Threats of musical notes' through He clarifies the problems Pdg.
II. De Combinatone valoris Notarum mujkaruper Problemata expofitd. R A R S S E C V N D Yes On Poetic Music.
GAP I. De 2(hythmically, the fire of poetic art with force and efficiency. II. On Accents III. On h)thmo eiufaue Accentu. t
IV. -Df Feet Thythmorumsue Meterorum. . Df with harmonic trijjyllabic feet. On the feet of the three, (pds four Jyllabs i i Vi On the variety of Meters.
On the Metrical Application to Harmonic Poetry l. r De Carmine Adonius I will bind a pentagy. . z. De Iambic Anacreontico, Metro heptafyllabo. .4. De Iambic Arcbilochico metro oBoJyliabo De Metro Enneajyliabo, . De Metro Desasillabo. . De Metro Hendecasyllabo, Phaleucio, Sapphico, Alcaico. . About the twelve-year-old Metro.
part IOIV (Egula, V. On the way PAR S THIRD; Presenting a new practice of the MufaYfthfn melothetics.
K'xfìoso j'n i-mniià'ioicf'm. ìj[ ni
CHAPTER I. The order and number of Pindcus necessary for the practice of dwarfism.
II. De alijs ad Mufarithic Melothefian exercising Requisites fil.
IH The practice today of composing a simple counterpunt from Mujdrithmic Pinacs,
e, (fig. to apply this melothesa in contrapunclosimplic to what- uisgenus Poetic Meter. 'fi
On the method of composing and applying mufarithms in the florid flute, and arti- with joy to any poetic meter. ioz VII. Panglofila Musurgiea, fu on the application of these Mufarithms to principal languages with examples, (figpraxi adiunllascilicet in Lin gua Hebrew, Syriac fu Chaldaic, Arabic, Samaritan, Ethiopian, Armenied, Greek, Latin, Italian, Hifanicd, Gaulish
Cheap De Musurgia Tfloetorica, was about the way of composing and applying Muf- rhymes to Hylum Rhetoric.
On the secret of fngular composing the easiest practice with the help of Mufarithmorunu Harmonic canons, where (fig. sample melothefia artifleiof with the help of this A new composition of Mufarithmic art is presented.
PART ART. Of the mechanical Musurgia, by which any one, even an unacquainted musician, can be helped a new and easy artifice of the tares of mufanthmic columns he is taught how to compose songs. CHAPTER I On the Fabrication of the Mufarithmic Ark
II. On the description of the mufarithmic columns, and their arrangement in the Ark musurgica Ibid. III. About the Musurgical Ark
IV. On the organization of the Columns to the Poetical Fly fpeSlanti.
De Musarithmispoeticis floridis.
On Columns for Rhetorical Musurgy. Appendix. On some other new and very easy ways and methods of composition fly
INDEX C A P I T V M; li D ÉBS C 'AP I TVM. L I B E R îN O N V Yes De Magia Consoni Dissoni, in which the storehouses of the fonoriim per various experiences are brought to light and
J v v X P ARS P RIMAi On the Physiology of Conson and Disson, in which the secret force in Conson
the hidden dissonance is revealed. t t r
CHAPTER L Of the wonderful music that moves the souls of men. II. Of the nature, production, and property of Conson (ss. Disson. III. About the people to whom the music works. IV. Cr ah qui foni fnt consoni) (ss why those souls move, -ro? r?
P A R S S E C V N D A. On the Magic of Mufurgo-Intrica, or the Medicine of the Body by Music fans
GAP I. Of the caujsis, (ss the manner in which diseases are cured by music
How David managed to kill Saul with an evil spirit.
there. Of the wonderful cans {you play a certain Danite musically to the point of insanity given
IV. The prodigious care of the dead by music On the various properties of different Tarantulas.
How Prophecy, (ss Divination) can be caused by harmonic modules. VII. Of the great power which music has in exciting bodies. Cheap Either plants, or amalia combined with the modules of the fly force ali which they obtain to cure diseases.
PART THREE On the teratology of music, or on prodigious sounds. CHAPTER On the definition and division of the prodigious end.
II. From the cast of the walls of the city, Lericho to the finish of the trumpets.
HI- Concerning the portentous end, which indeed is from a natural agent, -fid by human power more, they happen.
IV. On the end of the prodigious Bells.
Of the hidden ends of some wondrous caujfis.
On the prodigious end of certain shores in the Bothnian Sea.
part part: qjz tight Of Phonocamptic Magic, and of Echo, and reflections: the nature of the voice, and mine randy effects.
II. How the Echo has been designed and manufactured.
III. Of the manufacture of the instruments of the auclics, with the benefit of which the phone was removed from the fa- where they can be perceived; by alicjuót experiments, apraxes declared. IV. Of the Acoustic Fabrics, that is, the method of constructing Palaces, or other fa bricas, rvt sounds even removed clearly, (fis disiinBe perceived, the manufacture of ear tubes is also handed down.
PAR S QV I N T A Of various Organs, and Automatic Musical Instruments.
Progymnafma I. De -varijs Pragmatijs for the manufacture of Aeolian Cameras in -ifum Hydraulic organs.
II. On the method of verifying the phonotaBic cylinders, and the easy practice of the same to translate all kinds of songs for the Organ, qu? by faith nant, (fife.
Machinery I. On the Hydraulic Organ ZSitruuij
II. On the manufacture of automatic hydraulic organs,
III. Barbiton to dress the automaton in another way.
Bell organ to be made.
To make an automaton organ of every kind of Infirumentes faiths in- Presenting a symphony of BruBorum.
VII. To construct an automatic machine, for all kinds of instruments VIII. To trust the automaton, the voices, and the concert of the bird report
By an automated machine to present Pythagorean music to mal the lions of the three Cyclops arranged in proportion.
To compare the organ with the end of the leaves, or by the service of the cylinder, fid the soil animated by the wind, it makes a perpetual harmonious sound. XI. To dress up the weak, who are excited by sympathy alone, and so on do they eat honeysuckle?
INDEX OF CAPITALS part THENCE CAPI T V M. PART SIX The art of Steganography, by which the concepts of the mind keep people at a distance they can stand. i. De Crjptolsgia Mu surse a. . r. On Steganography Mufurgica,
BOOK TEN On the Ten Organs, in which by io. Show registers then the nature of things in all the music harmonic proportions.
iisy Registrum I, Of the Four Symphonic Elements, or Harmonics.
II. Of the Calorum Symphony. . r. On the admiration of worldly bodies for their inverse proportion. . Att-e in which the c&leftium of the bodies of Music is composed. . z. On the particular Symphony of the Planets. . Of the Choro 1ouiali. . On the Solar Dance, Ai artio. . On the harmony of the fixed stars.
yes, III. Stones, Plants, Animals with food. IV. On the symphony of the Microcosm, of man with the Megacofm, his de Human music.
On the harmony of arterial pulses in the human body.
Of the pathetic symphony, Afsetttonum's mind to the contrary.
VII. On the Symphony of the Political World or on the harmony of the Political State. VIII. On the Harmony of Powers in the Soul of Man.
On the Hierarchical Harmony, I was of the Angels in Choirs distributed. Of the Archetypal Fly, of God kind nature
Mmwmwwiwwwwmwmwmmmi Of notable things, which in these two volumes The muirgies of Vienna are included, The number with the letter (a) signifies the first Tome, with (b) the lecun4um. Harmonic Abacus Bacchus Harmonicus causes, ra counterpunctuation presenting rum
Abacus second generation whose office 13. pah mules Abacus 3. palmularum there Abacus. .palmularum ibid. Abacus Palms Z7.
Abacus tribqrmonic to the mind of the cincinnatus taken from Dorios, from Panharmonio Nicolai Vicentini. ibid. of Abacus Galeazzi Sabhatini,
of another simple Abacus, of the first order, record anything at any particular interval variables from J Abacus sent, Abacus with both Bus. b Abbaci's application of y is both expanded and con trail
Abacus, see Taflatura. Practice Accent Music
What is acute stress?
Stress, see Clause music There is no sharp tooth that can be felt.
I was playing the guitar of Vltramontana. from Accordano Cytharce Italica. What is the reason for the composition of Acrofcha? from air Air Sonorus can be considered in two ways, from The internal air that gives
impious to the old spirit of the animal I will hunt at ur. ib. Why can the air have a different voice? from how it should be sewn harmoniously, b More air is generated in the water loop tube, Cyhndraceum
How air makes music c a Aegeimar star Cy(haramresonat, b To the sick, whence came that various noises, tinni-
until they arise. from Z6 Aeolice hat diuersp quality harmony send out
A mixture of Campasti air. from Aithnce Cftuernce bought a perpetual spirit they do
Affefiion. es whence they are born.
Philonef, vidc, Harmonic number. The emotions that music teaches. Affé son of love
Affé fi US pain, from &6ozvsq}ad6o6 Let us be joyful. a Cb 6i z fius Pia ngen t um
Affé sii bus with the rest, of indignation, wonder (dance), arrangement, presumption snow
Affé fius gaudi], how to be excited. from rum apprehension excited by the guitar aTf imotheo.
Anacephalosis of harmonic processes ta shot up a vs 2V n n Analo' Index of Things Analogy of the microcosm with the megacosm. b Ànima musicasemitonium, a Animals fise natural voices miniBerio they understand
Ammalia, why is the end of some people called or they are repulsed by the same.
Animals in the heart of the mountain, of all kinds in Brume- they have this music innate by nature. b z Animals, see Bruta. Anxiomia of the three bones of the hammer, the anvil, and siapedis in the ear.
Anotomy Luscinia, or PhilomeU. from Anotumia Cygni.
What is the antiphon?
Antipathy and sympathy for strange things. b o To assign an apotomen to a string.
Be a water subject to sound.
AqueeduBus Romans, sptciesfinoras in ma they propagate peace.
The entry of Indian spiders, locofidiliserut. b The movement of the trees is proportional to the harmony they arouse
Arborfine grows by the root.
jire a musar ficee vsus ibid. Arc musarithmicce part of the musical technique himself
The ark of Noah, and the Temple of the human Solomon they correspond to the symmetry of the body. b Arcanum Settarij, oBanorij numeri, a Arcanum, force of, secret. Arithmetic quid, harmonic arrangement what, Arithmetic, see, Number. The Pneumatic Art, or of the Burning Spirit animated
Arsis, Thesis, what they are. . "They will be done.
Abrologi, alchymiìla corpo He attributed the fame to harmony.
Notable. It should be heard, why, rather than reading di L cle the wall
To hear why the feeling is easy in the tender summer is offended ibid. Birds Indian Parakeet human speech emu game
Arrange the halls in parabolic surfaces y submisse prolatu let him perceive, b The ears A wonderful goldsmith.
Description of the ear. ibid. Call the outer ear of the individual parts tions
The internal structure of the ear, and the parts conHitu- that ibid. Five ear canals. ibid. A wonderful ear device.
y4w external parties, vitilitas. a i The internal parts of the ear, the sinuses, and the vagina. ibid. Axiom, populata in Music are vi
BAsiliscifibilussormidabiliseB. from Barbiton to cut the automaton. b The base voice, Hypatodus, his pro pleasure
In wars, how will the fury of the soul be stirred up? should
Bruta how to delete music.
Bruta, vi de, Animals. AbaliBacanalib us sephyrotici they will adhere
The manufacturer of the Aeoli cameras. b bell de Campanis, earumq-, fabrica, &vsu. from s The shape of the bells.
CampAnd Euphordip, what about her me delays occur ibid. cam List of Notable Things Bells in different parts of the world pro- the weight of the diiofa size. from to construct a system of bells, in which quan- of the diameters of the campan of each inne
find the weight of each other. from The bells of the rim given cr aside zoo. librarupo deris, find the thickness of another's bell really
Of divers water bells, however— fused metals, the difference of sound to find
Various examples of prodigious bells. the sun
The bell in the monastery of S. Domini ci Cor- of Dubeni, and also in the convent of Salerno Dominion of the anus drodigiosussonus. there Bell, See, C affìttescala. A conical channel concentrates the voice more than— cylindrical
Channel foot whistles. ibid. The acoustic channel, how it should be conducted. ibid. Harmonic canons, or symphonies of the period ca.
of Canons in vnisona.
Canons of composition, short and easy system ibid. The canons of the first expansion break in vnam. i. voice, tryphonium posi tempora ibid. Canons of the second and third ibid. Canon vnisonus contractus d a z. Eriphon. z, Tetrapbonus, ibib Canon obi gatus, or strisius, or vnisonus in the evening from with examples until the end
Canons in bipodiapente. ibid. of the Canons opiflobatissius cancrizantes, Or is it the same thing? backward teeth from i The canons of the wealth of the Ilobati, what, and how they were entrusted i
Canon opislobatos, or eanclzans. from canonical secret method
A polymorphous canon.
Canonis, the resolution of the musical labyrinth, I will sing with the voices of itt iztirfboros distributed the case of Peter Francis Valentinus Romani i the sun
Canons in progress.
I read the canons of practical natural magic. here buried in monkshood
Canon Medicinal mixture, costderat. ibid Cano chymicus, arcana cbymicareuelat. bivd Canon Botarne us plant arcana pan he says
Canon Medicus, from the analogy of the megacosm to the microcosm, the great mystery spreads i the sun
Canonis, siue manubri'j Volychord duìsio. a with his rules, idea, moàuspri- mouse, second, third where tus Cbordotomicus there: Our system of singing is not purely diatonic, but my flowers
What is the song?
Singers Dadi dis, Eman, Idithum, Asipb: another four thousand in organs. b One hundred and forty Apocalyptic Singers four thousand
Singers, put forth the pathetic music I will make such a band as is necessary.
Four parts of Cantus, what at Eucli dem-.
Carmen Adoniumpentasyllabum b Given the song of the Sapphic Irisiopbo, that to live in harmony
Song, see, Meter. iambic The reason, however, is why the end of the beam is closed go sîridor extorted at the other end as well be easily perceived.
For the reason of the number of consonants, dffoni.
Caution in counterpoint bypatriate.
j! 5 no list of notable items, CuuteUseruanâd you hate hyp counterpunch they were
Cautelasruandà in counterpunch hypadia expert?
Caution in cvtrapuvflo diahexsentan da. ibid, Caution in combinations through the mouse box i will
The conflict of the central pbqnic, how to Echos to be considered in order
Charqfiensmuspentagrammorumfiue de mo the teaching of words.
Chara fler e ii'vide- Interualla. Cbelybus, fiue Violis, from arum that 'variety bus
Cbelys presents a figure that is greater than God violin ibid Chinenfium rnos ca nendi before the Idol, zW they call him Canfufius.
The names of the chords are Latino Grmca in details y. tetrachords aclauet music accomoda tami
The string of thousands of flowers presented to you is a firm photo it will be able to surround the chin A i7r A chord properly extended above the board, Af- look at the scale aptly diribuere. from The hanging string is naturally moved by a recursion course, they will make smaller ones.
A string stretched with a spindle, or a weight equal to three times strained in all directions.
To cut the string aqualit. er so thick the sharper the emson, the more breiontanto ve ro greater. the longer from Strings of any length drawn of water, qualiter tensarumsonis ha bent, vt longit. adlong ibid. The chord that a square bower the other water of the same diameter, which where they are bent on power, their son, so nor immeasurable.
A triple genus of injlrumetaliu chords, ibid. How is the goodness of the chords known? ibid. Metallic
of the Chords, by the strength of his faith. ibid. A string of gold, silver, lilac, and copper aqua by the weight of the scales, which the sound tooth
in Chorda all made of various materials to find the diversity of sounds.
Of the Chords, Thou art made ne. fitu, &concord
Chorda due crajjhie, of which the yna of the other becomes two times, excited by rue esano, the gods produce sorry The chords are related to each other vt to Diapentesonent. b ibid. cr affine, vt to long. Diatejsaronsonant,
A chord moves a chord at a distance, b o How to move the string to the string. the sun
z ti, so and the muscles and nerves so they can be excited.
Hordasintaflastcxcifar? sono vitri, b Chords, see Tetrachords, Vibrations. The chorus was said to be about of Poe's lyrics tarum
The choir of some Ecclefi was built by that artist cio, these singers only then a hundred
The chorus of the choirs of these fixed stars nuns b SS Choir Jouialls, and March. there What is the chromatic type and its examples? the sun ibid. Claues harmonicd-quasscala call, b Clauccymbalarij, cur crassitiei fi give in the means of dressing adhi be blessed
Clauicymbqlq are made in various ways. sun
The climates of the world harmoniously arranged, b Clauses Of the clauses which stress they exhibit, in the notes eXpresso music.
z. Tonorum, re per- cushions, and mixtures of manners in the prince pious, in the middle, and at the end of exafiè, and according to ma they present a tower.
shout- List of Notable Things. Glausuigformales in florid counterpun the sun
Clause, formal in the musta what happens, ibid. to form Clauses, which are required, ibid A new system to be arranged with the closure of the artifice,
Clause change, there Various types of clauses.
The flowers also close up and decrease three notes ibid. Flas approaches singular clauses, ibid. Clausula mcluthetica artistciosg, in quibus de dissonant-consonant ligatures.
Clause, see, Accent? The proportion of the heavens is the same. A combination of features. from p. m A combination of value characteristics.
The combination of the name of God in the Tetragrammaton. b Combinations of features in any system you
Any combination of features, and any number of as they occur at any interval that
A combination of universal features in fyHema- te musteo meetingb xvfqueadzo The combination of the values of the characters in the syflematC- wheresoever, let him meet at a silent interval renters
Comma is the smallest of all intervals fenstible Qomrnatu, interuallorum, &fchifmatu ty pus
Semicolon ibid. To determine the comma in a string,
What are you doing?
The complexities of men differ, what must be done they should work.
Melancholy, and bloody, what a pity they love ibid. Choleric, phlegmatic, which i ibid. A comparison of the colors with the interval list
A comparison of the individual parts of the human heart pore with the nature of things.
The composition of the four words corresponds to what I call elements a 'vfque to s Composting of words.
Composition or words.
Compositions with any two words given the bus, the rest of the artificiadnesie re, a with his rules, of mon di rat ion i bus vfque ad
in chromatic and enharmonic composition Purely, problems occur. from Compostion, see Counterpoint. Conea ua focus on the sound,
A particular description of Cone or Dannarti, a Conicochleatidemonflratio.
Consent of animals with cpio.
Consonance, how can it be said that it is divisible? the sun
Consonances vti, dissonances in— in a particular proportion of the contiflent, in— infinite multiplication.
Consonant arti continuation table, a I will not divide the consonants.
Consonantly perseli from queenamstnt ibid. Consonance, which they are imperseBa. ibid. Consonance divided into parts, ibid. Consonant marks must be expressed. scheme
Certain consonances are called curperseBg, ibid. Why is it called im persesi a when the consonants are from another? ibid. Consonance, dissonance, lawful, and unlawful so
The consonance is then precisely completed, when two strings at the same time ritverberatus
The consonances are so much smoother simple list of Notable Things the more simple they are, the more simple they are they have gained more unity.
Consonances, dissonances in contrapuntal ttosimplici artificially interspersed. from Consonant, quxratio of imperfects, a What kind of imperfect consonance? tbid. Cionsonantia, dissonantia quidi b Consoni, origo, b Consensus harmony adspiritusvitales. bzo$ from 3. confiat all the music. bzo9 how do they fix it?
consonantly, concordantly Contrapun&us Counterpoint, what, &quot; What is the artificial counterpoint ibid. and even a triple e fl there The if anything:
Counterpoint diminutive, sivefloridus, ibid. in Counterpoint from temporary abuse, ibid. Counterpoint colored, or Melotbefia ar colored tificosa. b Z O ntrapunctusfugatus
Against p une tifo luti, tied, syncopated system even ibid. of Simple Counterpoint, of any al- of a more simple composition, from Simple counterpoint $. vocum. from Flowery counterpoint, simple law. to another
Contrap. floridus varius es.
A simple flowery counterpoint, or dimi nod there The flowery counterpoint of the two vows Bylo Ecclesiasticus to compose. from Counterpoint of dipbanium Bylo Ecclef. ibid. of Contrapuncti no. ua, admirable combi- nations through various combinations inBi- to protect
Counterpoint I. floridus, Hyperlatos, . ibid. other names of counterpoint, etc. to To compose the diatriton counterpoint, zibfd, Counterpoint replicable byperbatos a As many counterpoints are replicated, as many diphthongs they are not born from
Contrapun cti hypotr iti summary praxk. ibid. Contrap. to arrange diatejjaran from The counterpoints were thus lost. from Contrapunctihypodiatesiaron a ZZ6 deC ontrap. bypOivel hypodiapente, ibid. Contrap. hypodiapentecompose,
Contrap. high hypodiapente.
Contrap. to compose dtahex
Contrap. hyperdialectic there Contrapihypuhebtamosiue diahepta. from Contrap. to arrange diahepta ibd. i Contrap. hyperdiahepto
à Qantrap. hypodiabepta z6. tryphonia nasu tus usi. tetraphonia
The counterpoint of the diapason is made in various mo push ibid. Contrap. hyperdiapafon.
Counterpoint bypodiaphone. ibid. Contrap. to compose byperdiadecaton, a Compose contrap. hypodiadecaton. from Contrap. to arrange
Contrap. to compose diatredcca. a Contrap. to compose diatetredecaton. from Contrap. to adjust the dsdiapason. from
Counterpoint, see Composition step by step Synopsis To order the Qonumspirale twisted in this way, vt arti culatossonos in condaui a public remote, di Binet è ad aures deuthat
The body's ccllsion air is required. a d The cause of the sound of the bodies of the state.
Crafittie data d'amet rum of each bell, or that the same eB width to find him.
The ancient chromatic Tetrachordon from Chromatic soft ss etrachordon. ibid. degrees of the fifth setracherdi. from Crucifixus à Petro Aloysius Er aene Bino compo site
From time to time a prodigious cry through music, or dia It can be done with the help of a bull, or by agreement. b The cares of Saul R. Abenezra abrogated I pretended to be foolish reasons.
The swan sings. from Zi. S" his sister surgery How a hollow cylinder reflects, b Build a pbonolactic cylinder. b The amount of cynosure around the pole of the world, b Polychord guitar before dissolution. b David List of Notable Items Diapente halving Did I compose the Psalms in metrical aud? it was
David Tragic Poet, Comedian, Satirist, Heroic, Elegiac.
Daui di the profusion of their hymns, a Dauidem Sa uhm curafie, decacbordi Psalteriy force, the Rabbis assert.
Democracy, democratic, arithmetic for He met the portion.
Dtadtomi in the strings in any way you hold, diff they are carried, both with great speed, and also with speed tate
Diadrome is the biggest string at the same time. it thunders the whole space where the smallest. Z The number of diadromes is how it works
Diapason The queen of all consonances, from Tuning all consonances and dissonances it folds in on itself a Ì2Q Diapason in Diapente, à Diatefiaron divì give from i2i
Diapente, yžW Quinta, and about its species. sun
Diapante combinations are specified in the table. the sun ibid. Diapente, assign the fifth to the string. the sun
Diapente, and Diatessarom of Geneva. from Diapente, yfof Quinufpccies, next to the triplex race
Diapente, look, Fifth. Diaschism efl half a day. from Diaschism, fiue half a semitone] minor to assign to a string. from What happened to Diatefiaron?
Diatefiaron locumsupra C, sol, sa, vt inueni- rcj from I2E Diatefiaron halving.
Diatefiaron fiue fourth with his species. thread
ibid. Diatefiaron, diapente Genefis. Five types of diatonics. Diatonic Pythagorean. soft diatonic Diatonic syntonon Diatonic Tvniacum. Diatonic Equal. On the day of the ittteruallu the least esi. a. Etspa ciu, quo major efl sesquitertia fifth, ibid. Determine the Enharmonic Diesin in a String.
Diesis increases in acute every interval or mark a Š3 Diefis known as Enharmonica, ibid. in D apason dspofitio accidental scale, a The difference between propagation of light and propagation phones
The difference of words from the sarytigis conflict. the sun
Diminutions in polyphony.
Dsdiapason syfiema. juXta Diapason spe cies
De Difibnaniijs, fiue interualUs dfionis, eo- A diapason, divided into commas and semitones minor from i7 The tuning fork is halved. from iZ6 The diapason was placed in the iz. semit. aquatic A Diapason, from xseptemspecicbus tones, fiue from i Diapason determination.
To assign the diapason c uditone to the chord, a A diapason with a semitone in cborda
Diapente, what are you doing? .
Diapente, diatefiaron of all the rest and nature. quality.
a Br Dissonanti js, e arumque in composition Diapente locum below E. inmnire from multiple vs. List of Notable Items Type of dissonances ibid Requisites of dissonance and concordance. . r de Dsfonantiaru colice aUoneyvt consona re4, are given
God foretells how it will be cooked. from Disagree how they reason.
God's tone with the diapente, what happens?
Diuiati(t see, Prophecy? th a or umfor ma description b Echiea vessels how they sounded, and what reason ibid. Bchonic paradox
Echoic distance is difficult to determine. Conse Barium Echonia, with which the quality of space was conseBarium.
In Ehonei, why is it not possible to make polysyllabic spaces? equal
Echus nature description. ibid. and his end
What kind of hidden echoes do you want?
Why is it not done in the wells that you have abandoned there? Echo in the Vatican Palace. ibid. Echo why noBu persevere than the day I passed he loves
A monosyllable echo requires o. feet Rom.
Echopolyphona how to conBruenda. b Echo to the walls of the nine swords
The echo reverberates in the circle. ibid. Echi artificosa how to constituì posstntib Echus, see. Geometry. i-Ellipdn to describe a single file duBu. b Eliipfis is a wonderful place. Had. Elissin to set up acoustics in the palace, vt the two princes clashed in the councils, so they could talk to each other. b Elliptical architeBurapro multiplying vo-
To describe Elhpfioplaften in solid matter. fits
The third kind of Enharmonic Modulation. the sun
An example of an ancient enharmonic. ibid. An example of Ptolemy's Enharmonic, ibid. Enharmonic degrees of the fifth Tetrachord. a Enharmonic genus. of various resources neon ibid. Demonstration of enharmonic progress. ibid An experiment The experiment was decidedly difficult clear
Aubor's experiment in LusciniasaBum. the sun
A phonocritical experiment about nature a variety of wood, bone, ore the person to be investigated.
A harmonic experiment in Senario. a Exp harmonic in the square li gnome, ibid. and another division from Ptolemy, which He is called Helicon. ibid. Experiment with the strange web of spiders the sun
The experiment of the author's robustness. from Expiration, what is the difference between the words? rat
Elliptical devices sound wonderfully focused to construct ibid. Figure principal tressuntsdeft CommiJsurat syncotatiostxfuga
Figura, the two tropes of the art of music, are the sun
The wire that goes round the earth, how many? would be
Become a stream. The rudiments of pipes, from reeds. from Fi Buiafrana, and Phrygia qualessuerinta. Fibula triBoma.
Fistula Hexaftomaa Fistularum vnius oBauafiue diapason, in Organs in syBematic proportion. from and aliudsyBerna diapason, ibid. and from Fisht- Index Rerùm H-otahilìujn. In se alar Ù pro organ s latitudrereperire. a sio FiHularumorgan closed conference. ibid. The arrangement of the open organs of the fibulae. the sun from his Fi fìule Organ di fi te Paraulicum, confiruen- give reason
Organ of the fibulae of the Zooglossae. proportions to assign from s The proportion of anthropoglofis fiflules to determine
The form of government in which proportion is best achieved. the sun
The form of the Roman Empire in governing. b Why is the strait of Sicily always curled up? a io Escape Run away from nothing
The pr a standing of fugitives. ibid. A four-fold flight: ibid. Various subdivisions of fugitives.
An authentic regular bound flight free Fuga 'in vnisonosubì ceto byperbater, & cateh'a- top r Fifth f
ibid. di Fugissyncopatis
An example of a syncopated diatonic flight.
Fugtf syncopata àiatritos. Diatejsaran Diapen you
F#ge li well. & imitating polyphonic flight, free solved by degrees spouses
Fugue How is the word to be done; ibid. Dissolved diatonic fugue.
Fugasoluta, free dim orph from fi ne biformis. the sun
Free flight, and free madrigalsque flylo-, ex the second into the third. from to
Rule the composition of fugitives. from Partial flight rule in vnisonesupra, in fra undercover. ibid.
A diatonic fugue must be maintained in vnisone. ibid. What is the flight in vnsono:
Fugam hyperd'atefiaron quidfif.
hyperdiatessaronsubìecto descending ibid. -
Fuga Fripbonialisperdiatefiaron. Fg diapente rules iriflituenda. ibid. Hyperdiapentic triphone flight:
of Flight through a particular diapason. there of Fugue, in which the voxphonagogue below of the conflict.
in vnison, in which the subject by z. ascended or descended. ibid. Flight in vnison voice.
Flight in vnisone, whose subject is hyperbaton ed and progressed from third to third. yW-
Galandra sings the litanies of the Saints, as it were I uttered it in a mana voice.
The rooster and the hen utter various voices. from Geometrical division of any internal jn two or more parts of water.
Gradus se u imerualla cuìuscunque Octaua. re- to find folded
Step by step The Greeks learned poetry from the Hebrews, a s Many thanks to the Muficans from Salo they drew warning
The snodin of Gracorum's composition.
They were ignorant of all the dissensions. the sun
Bodywork of grills a cause lorumson ibid. and a double type of grill, there
Guido Are tinus the voices of the Muficaa characters i just hit
Guy Mufiest polyphona. .Harmony without colors,
The political harmony of the world.
mouth list of Notable Things Harmonica Harmonic intervals, as before based on
Harmony is the material of P'oces, and the sound of the moon ri proportions, but its form ibid. Harmonic modulations, dicli nom. soh
Bring out the harmony of the different tones cta to the concert
Harmonic procejsus varietas.
Harmonically o. particular objects. ibid. The progression of harmonic numbers in only replicable.
What is the harmonic period?
The discovery of harmonic proportions.
Harmonic, see, Harmonic proportions, Progress. Heptacbord minor addition to the tone of May? Octavia is born
Less hexachordon, less sextet to determine the chord Hexachordarumsue Sextarum from Man's preeui arranged to avoid shock Caesar
Archilochic iambic meter octosyllabum.
Insrmus how mvsca be freed, b r intervals nterualla minora.
Schedule of intervals.
The Interval, or Degree of each Oetauee to find replicas.
Divided into three harmonic tones. from It was divided among the two sons you shoot in the water datbiatesaron i go with ahjs 9. pro- postiombusdinerss àfol. from to Interualla ill citayVitanda, qua} a b In the meantime, Mz, against Fa, with every effort then,
For intervals, see Characters: Degrees. Permissible intervals in hypocritical counterpoint. fi-
Illicit interludes in the conlrapuncto bypotrito. ibid. The interval of numbers through which pontrapunctl they are reproduced below.
Interualla, quesin trjliei tetrachordo enar they will break out of the monico.
the reduction of the illicit to the lawful. the sun L
Loads have a ratio of speeds than the square of the tympanum, ideftgrauicL,
by natural motion they descend faster. fol
Musical instruments YnBr ummentor um the origin of the mosses.
instruments of H arms such as snt. from Hcbrporumpulsati: bus from of the Pneumatic Instruments of Hcbreum. a; Inftvumentur museums vsu apudHe- arms
divers d'ucrss the emotions of the soul. feruiebantapudHebrtos
In Brumeniis diuerss, pro diuerss geflibusvte- they are ancient vi" from The tools of the fly among the ancients such as. l. ?
YnBrumentorum plurium gc neru a1uiso. a4. sz YnTtr ument of the orums of the Polychords genesis quin You can trust them twice.
Je Instruments such as muses, Tesu- d; nes, Mandora, Lythara, Chel. etc. this sarina innumerable.
Ynsrumentis, divers. d uerss are affected for the genius, the complexion, the constitution of a man tion b g In Brumentoru Pneumaticoru diuiso from The instrument was constructed not so pri the latter to the melancholy of a great man principal Index of Things Pi'iticipîs dgpelle'ndam ab insignì, ingenio- so that the Westrians
What kind of musical instruments? ibid. The instruments of the Ancients are not the same as those of the moderns to be compared
Instruments Chronometrafallacy by vibration tions of the strings.
A fallacy of chronometric instruments, whereof some they think that they can determine the quantity of phonic space.
insert Pneum, fistula, Organum. How acoustic instruments are manufactured. the sun
Intenso, &rem' (fiosoni at speed. or tar wealth
loan of Murs the finder of the well-known arum Musi ca lie
John the Baptist The gate praises.
Invention, see, John. The Italians hold the supremacy in music from You are the inventor of the polyplector Inslrumentor. there Author of Jubai's music.
Abyrinthus the musician. with his dem resolutions, and to the sul. OS. Li tuis Cor n amusis, Vtricul. s alijsqi a The quality of the larynx.
Comparison of the larynx with the pneumatic organ. the sun
Determine the Pythagorean lemma in the string. the sun
love harmonic proportion. the sun
in the Laws of the Vestiarijs, and of the penal service. the sun
Zegfj mule tarum i Cotinubiorum, Symposium rum ibid. Notable. Line Given the two grid lines, the average ratio to assign
Given the lines between any two ibid Find the line. .given the interval bsary cutting
To find the mean lines proportional to the tone and bisecting the semitonium. ibid. the sun
Lines parabolically generated in projectiles. the sun
What is the line of action?
The straight line is greater than the reflex line a in the ruler matter ibid. The lines within the parabola in be more parallel to each other.
The language of ÌAileus Campan a.
They have different liquors. from S Diagnose a person's fluid temperature you can
ibid. Places of solitude for the meer ore So the garden is destroyed the joy of those who win.
tbeatri constitution. phonascorum does not become circular. ibid. The voice of the locusts.
Light is to the eyes in the same way as sound is to the ears will be high
Why should we put on the hoarseness of wolves? a tetrachord Mercury j.
Lyre, Cythara inuentiosecuduGracos. a. Lyre bipole nisheptachord. from ZZ6 The beptachord was discovered by Orpheus d Pythagoras fa in adytis
Magas, see, Pectis. Magd Consona, dfiona qualissiti b in Magia Catoptrica quic quid di sium esi, pho- nocaptica can be applied.
The official geometrical proportion met. ai A hammer or tongue bell.
Mallei Cdpana Proportion Table. a These hammers, anvils, and staves.
M. allei Campana proportions.
The music of the hands washed away by the arrangement of the old they will come out perfectly. z HS Manuscripts of Greek authors on music in Bi Library of the Roman College
To be noted about the Tonograpbic Table, . ibid. The beginning of the melody
Melotesia of the Ancients, the glass of many voices, let them have a concert, and any of their rint
Pure Chromatic Melothesia.
Melotesia enharmonica four voices, a Contrapunflis simples. b Melothesia sfiorid# and artifice for Iambics Archilochus b iz Melothesia hebraica with a hard hypo tone, reflow, let them go in backward order from the law.
Melothsia Arabica I give a tone, re flower, 0 back singable by degrees
Melutbesia, See Meter, Musarithmus. meters Melothesia model with the help of new art musirithmic# by a fla.
Melothesia vario disiona cincinnata ah Illuslts Reuerendss. Dom. Roccio SS. D. N. Re- bearing with the help of the musarithmic art blow
Merula is a remarkable singer.
Methodius to the accordant. The instrument, which ex 17-spans.
A meter A variety of meters and verses.
Meters, which admit of various feet, which lia. ibid. Adonis pentasyllabic meter.
A meter of flasyllables! of god Adonius dafly lycum, and the Euripides of Italy.
Enneasyllahu meter ibid. Easy meter. ibid. Hendecyllabic meter, pauleucium, Sap figs Alcaicum, Da flylicum.
Metersappbicum. ibid. Metidecasyllable.
Index of Things M etrum, see, iambic with, Carmen, strophes, Melothsia. Rhythm Melotbesia, however, given the meters of Adontjs to arrange
The iambic meter given by Euripides, and the tone given, to compose any harmony b lamb'ca Eunped#a pe nuit: ma longa. b 8z dly lo florido
Anacreontica penultimate long. b Archiseli's iambic ca penultimate breuia
larnb ca enneasyllaba penultimate long, b and to dress with flowery fiylo. b x Metra d casyllabd penultimate breui. b Metrsapphic. a b d? 1 over him I am already in the market with my fiylo with Aruere. b x The penultimate breuia of the twelve-syllable meter. q Metro Iambic Euriped#o, given, Melotbesiam to finish fiyloflorido
Metro Iambic archilocbic given, Melotbesiam to present flyloslorido brii Me tro Hebrew given, to complete the melotbesia: the sun
Metro Syriac or Chaldaicodatq above him to compose melotbesia.
The manner of singing Greek chords.
A new way of composing. q Nouahac The composition method of EFL is infinite variation
Method, see Praxis. Monochord Monoebordum, what was the Harmonic Rule? let it be
The monochord is another trick.
The division of monochords and harmonic algebra. the sun
A description of Mtnochordi Datonicus iuxtasy sterna Ptolemaic tuning fork.
The monochord diatonic division is similar to this scale Mobile. monica
A monochord composition of the chromatic type. the sun
mono this nae bord Enharmonic composition. a The music of the early i to which he would blow the meters. why the movements of the fish in the waters are not perceived sun. .
Mustea modern Gr a eorum with var; js, mul- tsque examples.
You've made the Old Testament simple. from Arthmeicasub alternatamiasdem also the laws of Arithmetic cestefl.
Did you subtract from Mustca? from of multiplication.
of the Music of God's use. ibid. and also by rosfractos
The ancient music of the lyre was not expressed. the sun
Plain music, not the manners of time, trustful, gr a until dissi assesses the rents.
M uste a figured, how did I not go a Must see, Labyrinth. Force force He proposes a new Trigonormtry mouse. the sun
But the whole thing is hidden under doctrines, ibid. Ancient Greek castles, like. .. the sun
M ustca myHica of the Ancients. ibid. Music recommendations. there Music force in a ni mum.
M ustca prociJ]its, invention. ibid. Philosophical monuments of the Pythagoreans. ibid. Mustea in the sacred ancient Gracchus it was
M ustca was once not separated from poetry. a Mustea diversaspecies. ibid. Mustea vetcrisfpecimen.
The fly of the old days with our familiar mouse tone ly di
it has been the fortress of the moderns. ibid why does he dislike from S The various mustea of the Ancients. ibid. Mustea heorica. Music theory from the Ancients, in which it consists of the thing
Mustea Vocafs Antiquo-Modem. from Mustea vocal of the old. ibid. Mustea Veterumscanica, stue recitatiufLs.
List of Notable Items I said St. Motion could be given in a vacuum, it would be perpetual the sun
Motion whenever st along a line a décularmiÒinclining line, like the cone touches the resìa line from the perpendicular to the li between these two motions they are aquatic
The movement of the growth of plants is very rapid. the sun
Murileric fell by a miracle. b MuGrirhtnus
The Musarithmi, the nation of that order.
The multiplication of mustrithms.
Must. rythmus containing poetic meftbeVcos for phaleucius endecasyllables M ofuruhmi Melothesdsflorida. art v
M usarìth ni musurgia Re t borie a exhibiting. the sun
Rats were attracted to a phonograph pipe.
Music The music is very sonorous, and his voice is perfect it matters
Mustea in A gyptoinuenta. ibid. Mustea sub altem at ascienti a efl.
Musical geometry can also be alternated under fl tnquantum sonorous line constdtfat. ib d. Music propnèscientia ditta efl. ib! d. Defy Worldly music. Artificial double mustache. The music of Valdèculta à Salomon. Large Hebrew fly, variety. The music of Salomon pr a sian tia. Modern Hebrew music. The music of the ancient Greeks. ibid.
-WT52ÌE9E. T List of Notable Items Modern music, superior to the ancients, a Music has the power to touch people's hearts. admonishing, of what truths fint, qug of the wondrous music of the Ancients they will be f! Music how wonderful effectsprgJlarepoffit. the sun
Musicapathetic as it is for its purpose. from Music is a perfect science from il, to men their nature
The ancients were not perfectly modern. Flower
A comparison of music among the modern peoples of Eu.
Pathetic music is what happens.
they are necessary for Pathetic Music. ibid. de M usi ce patbeticp in an opportune place.
M fica Combinatori bz cumsuis exem- pl l ib uls osqueadsol. 6. Rhythmic music.
M-fica Capin trOlitic conilititus does not like. the sun b zQS Where to a 'tegmentum power of traction mu so g requires uri ibid. A wonderful effect m 'ficg;
Music, by which reason I cry, lycanthropy, He has banished the fury of the mind and other emotions. fl.
Mu fig A perfect musician, who should be called. fi
The musician and the poet sounded the same to the ancients, M ufi-ccrum V and erum names.
Modern musicians, have set other tones. fl' a zj4 Musicians expose themselves to great errors. fiprogres they have no knowledge of their harmonics, fol'
He must be a mathematician indeed.
Musicians, and their various names.
The ancient musicians were expressed in melothefia. with which they were known.
In composing the muficiin, do not be deceived by the ear I say they must trust.
Few musicians compose well.
Modern musicians are despicable. ibid. What musicians should avoid and what they should imitate.
They are ecclesiastical.
A muffled mode of fiue harmonic, such as becomes l the sun from them! Various sententig modes of music. H Various types of methods.
The musicians of the Labyrinth Canon, which we in Peter Francis Valenti nus Romanus gave. a vsqueadlOp A mushy way, see, a labyrinth. M 'ffurg a Poesie g, fiue Rbytmicg appendix. sun b Mustergia Greca
A mechanical musing, such as becomes i b By changing the mode, fiue Foni fiue flylo meta bolic
Changes from the 6th tone to the fertile soft.
Changes from Xovs z fourth tone. ibid- Changes in the characteristics of metrometers. b The change of tones in one and the same song fiue de miJlura Fanorum.
Change, I saw, Foni, SyHema each in their own language nics to arrange by means of a new artifice will be taught
Ma- Index of Things Nature needs genius.
Why does Cys'10 have such a long trachea de- der it, y
The nature of the presentation.
Nero's insolence in the Contadi]s.
I don't know why they are bringing quality.
Ner uo+um proportions.
The value of musical notes. from Chromatic Notes, Enharmonic pronunciations. from St On the value of marks, and the measure of time. the sun For notes, see Aids Numbers What is the sound of the shoulder?
Given any number of days, the mean assign karnomcèproportiqnal m. from Given any two numbers, the third harmonically proportional term ajsi- to know
Given any two numbers both of which are smaller in proportion to find harmonics. oV a To divide the number given thus, vt di- let the parts constitute the proportion con tuning fork:
Number is the rule and norm of all things. gwd obsruandumJit with a musical concert. from Number, see, Harmo experiment nothing Numeri stnarij, Ottonari} arcanum
the Mdothetic system is hidden.
Harmonic numbers, each subject is immovable le is arranged below Contrapunttum. from Number
The number contains all the consonances, there: The harmonic number of the spirit, stir up the flocks.
There are seven species.
Please? the order of Ottawa's own species. jioL
Notable. Ottauassiue Diapason infinitely many take care
Qttauam in iz. semitonia per r medias pro to divide into portions, a Cumsyfiema-
ahula of this division ibid. 0ttaua, see, Diapason, Sy Berna, Arca whether Qttaua in 12semitoniadiuisa Cyclica. a Ottauce diatonic degrees,
slte Lyrics, material Poems, about musical laws.
Opinions vary about the power of music. b The Qrganum of the voice in Psittacus comes close to human
of the parts of the Organ. ibid. Organum Eiiatonicg-cbromatico-enharmoni- when to dress
Hydraulic organs of any kind.
6s he fuses the stone in the ear with three piles the sun
I did it with intent.
Dispose of the palace in such a way that nothing is too submissive it was possible that the rton should be heard in some cprto I concluded
To arrange the palace for you, vtson only in two opposite places, and to be heard in no other quoat. ibid.
PalimpsefÌHS, qwdsit, : i Paradigms Paradigms of usurpasci second, fourth, six tees, and seven
Paradigm for two tubes.
Paradigm for phylprecitative.
Paradigm Diphonium Chromatic mi- siumu Paradigm 2. mixed operation.
P. i n list of Notable Things The type of breaks and their value
feet Difference between metrical and harmonic feet. b Q Harmonic metrical feet from afte, natu really line risk, syllabic errors for They are pleased to announce the announcement.
Foot mefibrachiuprogress illegal, and meso- branch lawful progress.
]pedes. tqui Catalefli, & acatale&iž
on the feet of the Hebrew verses.
Peliis differs from Magade.
I weighed it, I was of Magas. fantasy above vt, re, mi, fa, phobia, accomodated by cymbals
I fantasize strongly about the matter cupata is transformed, as it were, into a thing, I stopped rat
Philomela's praise, taira variety of words, ibid. Philomela speaking with a human voice ibid. Vhonsmus phot fmosimd s esi.
Cylindrical phonism incident to the parable, all Unta converge at the point, ibid. photo
JPhonocampticum double medium, physicunt-j, mathematical.
Pigolifmus and Glazifmus what?
The laziness of the American soul, or the laziness of H writing
Pinaces a box of musurgica reserved.
They listen to the fish.
Vlanlius the mother of Euryale Diatonicus. Chromatography co-Enarmonicofiylo composed. c: a Ple Sirorum vfus in the change of tones, b the sun
Dear, see the scepter of the log. dePleonasmo vfitato Ecclesiailico vulgo sfal so bordone
Pleonasmus coniuncus, disuniusus. , what? the sun
in which sense once upon a time they drew stones the sun
Poeseosjpecimcti Hebraica in'pss. 1. e luce-. jc being in the sun
of polyphony and the melodies of many voices, with any number of marks, with any location, value they are aquatic
The nature and changes of polyphonies, b Polyodia Grpcorumsiue Polyphonia: a Why is polyphany not always common? neat. -
To find the weight of Chords by weighing to v ni so whether it should be established, then what an interval
Given the weight of the metal, and the hole through which The light must be spun in size and length find the son.
P taxis to put any song in Contrapun Cosimplici.
Practice, see method. Abacus in the Geometrical Progression, the sum of all to find the terms.
Algebraic progress, a wonderful property. the sun
More double from fi.
The progress from 1st to 2nd is in two ways ibid.
Z Prophecy, and Divination how. , harmonics modules can be caused.
Opinions about the Prophetic cause v; ibid. v Proportions
ibid Proportions double over two thirds, Add intersg ratios.
Proportion to multiply by the written numbers. sun
To divide proportions or ratios by proportion itions. ibid. Proportion is double in Algebra.
The proportions of the h harmonica ce how to respond Geometric.
Many secrets are hidden in proportions. The proportion of the degrees of velocity to the natural motion descending hdex Rerum For proportional waves, see harmonicaproportion sonal. Proposals of the order of the palms of the hands lest they should be placed in opposition to their superiors numbers from prey
c. x Pfâlmus David's Psalmi cf utrum, soluta Orati ette, anj but the poem was written as ss, and in what kind A poem.
t'z? The titles of the psalms are marked by Inslrumenta, ad in which the Psalm was to be sung ibid. The seven psalms were written alpb ab tic è. a in the acrofic Psalms they are sometimes omitted some letter ibid. Esimi s Dauìdis rcpcrìuntur omnesflores. ct Hibernate Poets.
The psalms in which kind of song are written JoU Psalm Canticum, Hymn qjsomodod jfe- rant
Pfìttacus auis humane speech starch. from Parrots are a wonderful example. ibid. Psypb'u fish (commonly called Swordfish) by certa verbalization
Boys Eunuchs are most apt to be employed the first voice to sing
Pansia Syncopatum d. bet to be consonant. the sun
Philosophical music of the Pythagoreans. ibid. Pythagoras ea Tetra fi s. quid.
They did not proceed with the Pythagorean diapason. ibid. The Pythian law quidfignsicubqt among the ancients the sun
how he overcomes Triton the sun from los The fifth conflicts with the third major dh smaller.
Genesis Quinte fitte Diapente ibid Notable. The same fifth is composed of a fourth and a tone greater there The fifth adian is given in a minor tone by the sixth minor year Fifth, added Ter dee minor datsptìmama minor. from i r from Fifth and the seventh emanates from the greater Persian major "t. The addition of the fifth to the quartan was rejected by him quatnorspecief fifth from I4S The fifth order of species, according to the order na tural process
The fifth order of species, to inueHigason tones there Five minutes of international harmony exs, his nature of dsions.
It seems like fifteen minutes. of the two Quintas, and of these D. Johnson their ictilia.
Fifth, see Diapente. Fourth The fourth is composed of the third minor, ex in a lower tone
Genesis is the fourth out of the third major e, semito nothing more
The fourth and third are added to the least a nicer sixth
The fourth and the third major were added at the same time they call it the sixth major. from that Addition of two quarters is produced beptaccord minus from itr Three species Fourth,
Quarta fiue ordo, a or Diapente. ibid. How is the fourth consonant pronounced? from How are differences of tones drawn up? ibid. Quarta d'JJona how to harmonize. a the sun
The fourth syncopation was rendered very frequent there You are a good example ibid. The fourth generation.
The fourth placed below the fifth why dJJonct. be
The fourth placed below the fifth was disjointed from The fourth enharmonic species.
Any square in eight parallelograms but let the waters be dissolved, from the use of this god, all the intervals of the music are revealed. a Ppp Quan- List of Notable Items The number of syllables in pronunciation is threefold. the sun
In some ways Dauid Saniem Muse a curati t. the sun
Why must the force of Aitia be required? the sun b s How to move the warriors more quickly. b o How a string moves a string. the sun
How do different people move in different ways.
How to restore the enharmonic species. ex rules
How music can make you feel amazing. How a fly first breathes, then breathes move
How the sound moves things. b r in the sense that once the poets and the Saxons drew the sun
tAnt ololigo a r Their Anatomy ibid. How is it enough to gather them together? ibid. B. Abra hami Abenezra toy. b r S The method of increasing sounds within parabolas. become
The speed of changing tones.
Reason mxnìjeîlandiscret from persons, b Euclid's reason for what to go.
Reflexion resratiiosoni. b r Reflection in five regular bodies. the sun
Records of the Worldly Organ.
Organic registers, wind shelters, sun. read
What about Royal Organic Cheese? ibid. King D mia forced the Muse to rage even more. b King Gallia M use a composition The second rule
The rule of Triton.
Rule of truths Hexameter etipn theme tra e: musarithmisapplicami, , The rule of change of tones.
R gula mistura d Mrjorum meterorum. b The rule to be observed m nnlothesa 'jhruids, .
Regulus, some informative glotticisms he borrows clauses from Luscinia 'w-a The requirements for the concept of the art of musaritbmieamj.
Rhythmic as well.
The Roman aquadutius force fonerà. A bv RotaCymba larch in Ecdesa Fuldendescri option
The cylinder of the wheels pbonotafhcum moving b zzo Pe nstiumsabrica wheels v b ZZ8
Aeraments Ecclesg how the soul bring harmony. -Forest-case in t arant uh a i. The Saxons attracted by Orpheus satia quidr. o-. A wonderful rock in Scotland. from Quido Aretinus invents the rnuscal scale; sun, now Tones Semitones
The Guidonian ladder, according to the mind of the Ancients. Grates in the Diatonic class.
Graphics weight bells rum Scenic Fly you want you can blow into the hearts of this a little
Sceptrologianoue type of Muses, b Scheme of the Seven Spcciers of Otiaua, complex, Di atonic, Chromatic, Enar mo nothing
By carrying out the secret of the Canons, the art of swimming rum
A great secret on the fly. ai The second ict. and his vsus. Index of Things The second syncopation was immediately rendered suaijjìma you
Semidiapasn fiue Q Batta imperseBa. I was half-open
Semidiapente fiue fifth diminutive vsus. fol
Semitones in chordaajjignare.
What is a semitone?
The semitone movement of the entire music diversity caAusaeB.
The semitone is placed in a different way and in another way let the gods move. from jg The seventh vs.
Sextarum vsus rule.
Ascending descending signs Music.
Position of Chromatic Signs.
Sozw moves the humors differently.
What a wonderful sound b l The prodigious sound of the shores of the sea.
A prodigious sound in Candor from.
The sound of dung from the light.
The sound changes what and where.
The cause of rough smooth sounds.
I will divide the sounds.
The sound of the glass in the vacuum he said How sound is propagated.
The density and rarity of the bodies is collected by sound. the sun
Sound and harmony to be gathered from Tgnis.
Why should we be afraid of a strong sound? b You want harmonic sounds.
how they are to heal diseases. b Spacijper quodsonus quantity, b $audio files are emulated by v files. b Chromatic Species Enharmonies qua the sun
Specimen nouum artifica muficp in fUtutum by new art.
Notably The vital spirits move to the vibrations of the string rum. Spirits in the heart move persons. ibid. Articulate voices from natural magic pronouncing how with Hi tui Statues moving at certain times. b He made a statue in the manner of Echus the words of Prof rent
Consider all the aBions as exercising life, how did it happen?
A perpetually moving statue.
Canon style with examples.
Who should be the style of EcclefiaHicus? for example
Any melismatic style?
I was from to AD Symphonic style who', when from impio. A The style of th e tra lis. Tragic style. The phanotabic style. Style bulk (Heus.
Sympathica' Musica per Conica cor por a. b Symphony of the Elements.
A symphony suitable for the harpsichord. : Symphony for teiludin ibus
Symphony for Cbelys in all numbers from very loose a isque adsol. 4. 9 Symphonia cumfisiuhs hexastomis, quasVlau they call them
A symphony of four voices for every ìnîìramen adapted to the type of bed.
The symphony is a fourfold cause. from SymphoniurgipR gule.
Catholicon's syncopation paradigm. from v What happens when syncopation occurs?
Ppp r of Notable Things. Synopsis of the new Meluthetic art, with which Con- each stitch is completed. from Synopsis in Hrumcntorum polycbordoni, I was
Sy Berna proportional means. who bus 0tiaua in semitonia aqualia Ari-. The box is not divided.
Syberna of the proportional means, which Bus Octavia is divided into days. ibid. Syilema Vniuersale, which assumed the theme by it is essentially changed, b Sy Berna's change of metrometers while imperfect,
Od Mufarithmicce artis ratio Me-. the fuse is broken.
The order of Musiritbmic records. b Table fiue Pmax Polysyllabic words bar
Tabulafiue Pinax III Musarithmorum, Ado nor the reason for arranging them above them. the sun
Table IV. musarithmorum Euri pe dee or uni- the sun
Table V, mufariihmor. Anacreonticorunt-j. the sun
Tab. musarith. Iambic.
Tab. Musarith. Enneasyllables the sun
Table VIII. Musarith, God of Asylum ab orum, b Tab. musarith Hen dee asylum from or. b Table X musarith of the Sapphics. b Tab. XI. musarith Dodecasyllab. b Tab. l. Musurgicep oeticefioridf in Adonijs. the sun
Tab. IL M usurgipfloride pro Euripe dpis. the sun
Tab. Ijl. Musurg. soride for the Anacreonticians. the sun
Tab. IV- Musurg. florida for Iambic. b H2 Tab. V, Musurg. for for Enneasyllables Decafyl
Tab. Vl. Musurg. flor. pro Sapbicis b Tab-pleonastic
A table showing the series of QBaus the length of the string is m.
Table melotheticp vsus explanation. a T table the proportion of each interval in terms of radiea Lbusseu the smallest exhi goods
A wonderful table of all the counterpoints of art giving the secret to the guilty, piusdemque vsus ex folding
Tabulf of the proportion of chords, as in Claut cymbals conBituendi'Jiruiunt.
Table of weights diuerfitatessonorum in DemonBrans of various kinds of wood. the sun
T abulf crajfitei Bell.
Order of the Built Plans for Kent whether by composition.
Table I. The value of the notes s. b Tab. The type of pauses.
I was affected by tarantism, why certain colors They will be so delighted.
Tabatura is a harmonic abacus.
TaBàturfpolypisctreorigo. from SS$ They lacked the ancient rites of passage. the sun
T empus Echon'uquod compete opi imum. bzS An exact treatment of the Musician
The third arum vsusfiue rule.
T rtiec of the greater how-lesser supersedes. a lo s T"1 diatonic, chromatic, et Enormous pure. from Tetrachord five genera and which? sun: Tetrachord Hypaton in Monochord design that Tetracordimeson in monochordodetermination. the sun from rS7 Tetrachord hypaten chroma.
Tt tractysPphagorica, quidl et eius arcana. the sun
Tetrapbonia is a composition of four words even Tetraphonium Bylo TLcclefiaBico. from Tempbonium Chromatic. ibid. TetraBopbo monocolo Anacreontici metri da- to arrange the requested harmony matter
Tbeatricus Tribonium symphoniacum sub for out of things in a threefold proportion
Classical music theory.
Theory must always be connected to practice. ctam
tone what The greater and the lesser. from Tones exact description the same nature and affection.
The division of tones in the harmonic arrangement and Arithmetic.
T oni enarmonici diuisio etpronunciano, a A choice of tones.
Press in the title Psal. S, nothing else but Sirumment to which it was to be sung Psalm
T riangulum phon oc ampii cum.
The use of Triton.
Ductile tube e and the difference. from Why do pipes, embedded in a wall, make a better sound? exposed to the open air
Tube oticus Cochleatus pro Surdastras, b The Music of the Turrets.
The drum and its manufacture.
How will the poison expire in Taranto? the sun
Which winds are more suitable for music?
How can you become a perpetual wind through the leaves? let it be
Words as much as they can into the hearts of men. The application of words to musical notes.
The ancients were known by the famous musicians.
The vibrations of the strings, how sumendy. the sun
The sight of the Indian spider was a surprise. b Force bar warning pin hidden from all, b disease manager. there The force of music in the hearts of men. ibid. The force of the music in which it consists,
muficp Rex Damp the fury of the act, b The wondrous power of Sotùtussisluncp in "Finlandia, b F#4? resonance in the wells
What is Vnison?
definition of this Cause.
The difference between words.
Why is the voice sharper when it is far away, and because it is near? tusiusphonet
The human tendency to imitate others. sun
Four signification of words.
How to perform voice transformation. the sun
of men and animals on the bank of the river in Proincue Candora to be heard by the the sun
The voice of the channels included in the glass is always there can spin
Voice is best propagated through long tubes. sun
F? is propagated better through circular tubes from. b Fo x z Conical Canal is more concentrated than in cylindrical
Voice through circular surfaces is especially close it's coming The thread propagated everywhere through the spiral tube it is very strongly intended.
Fox Cuckoo how can be presented in the organ let it be
How the Voice of the Cock is Presented in the Organ. the sun
The word fi falls on the object orthophone, ect-. i ff List of Notable Heroes she herself will be re-echoed.
Vsus and applicatiopinacum inside the ark of Mu-, Vtsurdus perceive. .
The validity and purpose of the individual parts of the hearing Who can listen to Gampanarumfremiturn organs
bottle and how music has the power to emotions to be aroused.
A man of different tones responds to different emotions P To conjlruere inslrumen of an t.
tumjn where locofislurum loga cylin- Vtrurn The music of the ancients sews more perfect mo- dragons are arranged
pine tree Summa Priuilegij Calarci. Ferdinand III. , by the authority of the Emperor, it was ensured that no one within Sa cri of the Empire, the boundaries of his hereditary Kingdoms and Dominions mat, or to sell, either as to the whole, or as to a part, the work labeled M ufur- gia Vniuersalis, stue Ars Magna Consoni, Dissoni P, Athanafij Kircheri Soc. I suffered for decades without the ability of Authors; under the penis which is in Caesarea's letters are contained Given Vienna4. in the month of December, in the year The highest privilege of the Catholic King. Philip IV. By the authority of the Catholic King of Spain, the same Sancitum it is within the same number of years that the Provinces of Belgium have been taken under the dominion of the Region, viti ex The same letter is more extensive, Given at Brussels on July ADMINISTRATION To Bibliographers Iconisms, in which it is signed (z. Tom. ) spedia ad Tomus ad folio ibid gnatum-, Cateri rver Iconismus, in which Tomus is not assigned, only fed is noted leaf, I will send it to i. T. Frontispiece or "Figure, which contains the title Help ris with the name of the Author, must be placed before the Title of Volume The iconism of Apollo signed with Tsum. XI. ft) XII. prefaced by the title of Tomi z. Finally, the portrait of Ser. Archi- The dedication of the leader is proposed in Volume i e r r o, r e s tìpici ToAv-First Committed, more than J. pro aliquodjlfge aliquot, sol, 6 line for Latib, read Iathib, and the last line for Larea, read lareai rttonum, read tritone. , lurn toLi75. lin. 12. be omitted, by firtn ormiti nnn uo. A intAn! . leaf J7 proniitperol. in the fourth game, read sun, Iin. j2. pr0 palms, Jegepfa mol
but this log does not really and properly rest m The seventh fiber will be taught. ìidem in the margin of the thesis Pro thedis the sun m without pentades i. , fufc numns r. ig, put increased, increased, which is omitted. fohs.
lin. xj. for the dimfio tone, the legedmifio diapason. sol lin. y. prirai numeri fip are put, S- to fol, j36 lin. , under
are these placed in a pentade whether en 3. 5-sol. lutr read Suppar. soLj(i, lin. 2f. Joco e. um, kge cum, sol, lin, n. joco lmmo ilis, lege mobiles, 1b1d. Im. 17 instead of qiii, leg4 where, lin. jj. pro bpna is rendered, the law renders good. photo-368. jin. 9- for ht itane, sogeitmie. sol. Z7k, lin. K. for the first, the first. sol, under pentade j, these words are placed: those of yours you remember to know us; sun, lin, for by feminine notes, legefemibreues, ibid read: adfemibereum to certain singers by the smallest and feminine ones to the belt. sun, 4c. finw,
IN THE VOLUME. by the pentade we understand and their physis int: a that the musical notes are contained,
sol. 2- 'n vltima pentade. the last note is placed in the lower G, vt x doc fourth pentade under the number ix j-r b soft signed, vt fequityr-fub siterà fa Lc L. fol. 2Z3 pentade is placed under the number Z-fcaJs, vt appears under C, in pentade vero quinta. sub número bbponafur, vt Dlitera taught. sol. pentad last du? e notar with log x they are to be placed, as Etera E teaches. the sun pentadis the ninth note becomes feminine, the tenth is actually punctuated, as F. teaches. fol. 14? -pentadissextae, vltinv trotaepLintiuni de le, sol. become pentadis fourth, penultimate- notar apppnamr diesi. sol éntadis'd in the third loctilapnento for number 4. pdne f. sun. o. in the last pentacle the penultimate note must be omitted vfquead IV. example sun, in the 1st pentade, put the twenty-fourth note in C sol F as the sun, i. , in pentad put the third note in E la Put the eleventh mark ip p la sol re. .sol. 344. repent of my last so correct, last nctasfin- brt my sun, penis like II all of the gular periods, put one step below. not above sol in pentad put the last two notes, he showed sol in pent you will sign the note of the sixth and tenth b soft. vt shows the sun in the fourth pentade, the first note must be deleted. and in its place substitute the pause f in the fourth pentade, the seventh note is placed in G sol re vt. sol. in pent. j The scale is placed in mediatimeli T so pent (jgna. se alam basii, vt appears in V. , the same in basso pen tade vltima, obferuandum, sol vesque ad solium The canons are marked with simple C, not C fedio, tol. to be successful da the third pentade the voices are signed vt K teaches, .fpl in pen the sixteenth note in G sol re vt must be cau data, without tufa fol. pent to nota de. ci, masea deest, minima yidejicet in C sol fa vt to be placed. fol. in penta of note osteaua debet. sol, penta# must have a third scale in the fertile lower line, vt appears in diagram Z. This error occurs twice with the same trap, which you correct. -in Cantibus ttaix 'to be put to flirt, to appear; fol. in basto' iv, vltima nota breuis debtt poni. vt in M. in bailo chori, notes are to be placed, vt appears in N sol. s-A-pentade should the sixth note be placed DI? the sun re fol. éoi, in pentade (. the fruitful note must be placed in F fa vt.
tli theme, read Thebua. sol- linea r for one, large one. the sun line for le or, read Segor. ibid, lin. r for vna, read via, for derech, read berech, lin for otnaim, read Oznaim, ibid m last line, sol. lin. for tube, read book, sol lin. prolapse, read fall, ibid. for the most intense, read vehenien. t fimos, fo! .3u. lin, 9. pro cummm. lege curuum. sol lin. for monet, read monet, sol. for vices. ?e read the glasses fol. lin ptoParts V. read Part VI. fol. lin. for migacofmo, icg, megacofmo. or lin. io for mecrocifmi, read microcosm. sol. 403. lin. 24 instead of breaking, they break the law. fol. 40s. lm. 7. prone ur the law of stature Sol. lin'4, pro, vnt lege are sun, for Register IV. read Register VI. ie r r o a E s juUvncA Coincidence nv
sol. pent, The vltimx note pause to be joined vt In X it is clear fol. ii in pentad. f vltfma is placed caudea vt ih Y. topen tade vHtma vt in P. &in pentadis vltimg, nota vltima ponativ femifafa vt in O. foL j, in pentade nota, z. on the day of needs fol. in pent. seenni take my mark pus m. in the same place, in the fourth quarter, put it in the beginning 7a. in perit. de printa-vltima note is placed in C sol fa vt. &ninth signe Some Melothefiarum' exordiavMo Scriptoris sign C sect passini the reader will be warmed; which is only a simple seed circle C is notarized, whence the reader, unskilled in music, and with clumsiness, will easily run into similar errors.
If sometimes the Scale sign C sol fa yt 8f F fa yts are not correctly placed on its lines, he will prepare what he has placed twice, the same I would like to be corrected
The rest of the entry, Orthography, of the order of Chapters is given occurcsLefior bcneuolusfa he will make REGESTVM Furnace X f tt
ABCDEFGHIKLMNOP Q. R S T V X Y Z, Aa Bb Cc Dd Ee Ff Qg îih Ii Kk Ll Mm Nn Qo Fp Qq Rr Ss Tt VuXxYyZz
Aaa Bbb Ccc Ddd Eee Fff Ggg Hhh H J K A LIl Mmm No Ooo P p p Rrr Sfs Ttc Vuu Xxx Y y y Zzz. Aaaa Cecc Dddd Eee e H hhh Iiij Kk LUI Nn nn Qo UGEST M Furnace ABCDBFGHIKLMNOP QR S T V X Y Z A a Bb Cc Dd Ee Ff Gg H h Ii K LIM m Nn Qo Pp Qg Rr V u X x Y y Z z. Aaa B bb Cec Ddd Eee Fff Ggg Hhh Ki Lll Mmm Noti Nnn Ooo Ppp Omnt$ fune Duerniones frater tt First Tomi Nnn Secundi forni who they join the Ternones.
