ATHANASIUS KIRCHERI From the Society of Jesus Arithmology Origin i The Antiquity and Structure of Numbers is Expounded j Abandoned; the same properties are demonstrated j Sources fuperftitions are opened in the device of amulets i In short, the number of the Cabalifts, the Arabs, the Gnophtics, others magical impieties detected true tk is a mythical figuration of numbers it is often ROMJE, from Typography Varefij
SIVE Of the hidden numbers of myfierijs SV 1{VM T I S SV. En volcyis mother-in-law threats fub cane dfpera while I filo the bark make weapons So I will do it for you join Nadafdie peace Svia, to whom, triflior. vtybra of weapons quiet ILLVST R. M0 ET COMITIS AND THE LORD D, FRANCISCO OF NADASD HORSE A V R AT O Eternal Earth? Fogaras, and Committees The first Earl of Cafterferrei Sacred? Ca? (areac Regta? que Maieftetis Coniiiario An intimate bedroom? ascnon fummo perVngariam Curia? Regif Magiftro ck players. cdthanafus Kircbems Fel. F. PV S this Excellent Count, of the hidden Nume- dew myderijS j lucerru fub gioriohN of your omen ipiendore (to leave, vtf I am not mistaken, no matter what I am armed with arguments. so or tianc folam for caufam in the Literary World when I trust it will be found that inuida The vitality of your mind is equal to the munition the license becomes twisted
a little bit like and finally iMud it happens, at least as many Nu- Mere, so many rays of Thy Virtues; how many myfferijs, so many great souls fubli the confpicuous fple of the oedipus give: I am bound in Thee everything is seen to be carried, which fparfim and the virtues have begun among others tre fe chained prefidia, vtquae diuifa are found in many, they are in the same that with Thy feet so complex of things washed away and the trespassers should be arrested
Who is yours in the religion of the Orthodox faith each time spreading zeal flirting is it not surprising? Who's on fire in football push mental strength fortitude peace 5t concord not fu fpic? What about your almost clear mind do- to you To you sharp, perfpicax, and suitable for All things are to be understood by the intellect, that then he made his acquaintance with me for the first time, when you were here Ko- Rome? of hidden things arguments very different from me, care ftu with thirteen languages and nations Do you hate the family Ttia? like any academician AiTeelis I walked you here. What is Profapia? Your end Do I remember the splendor of antiquity? Indeed peraetufla Fethenediorunir Counts in the house of things geftaftrm glory the famous origin of the leader Also from Re gia Bathorei family by Batlioriam Francifci Nadafdis Aui Yours; you are going to die, than Stephen Ba- thorius first in the principality of Transylvania roads, then into the Kingdom Polish leaf he was so high degree of dignity He increased the size of the Geftor, , hardly them He wants to add anything. What can I say about Paul, Thoma, Fran- cifco Nadafdijs, whose great of duties titles accumulated by Calare
He celebrated the terror of the Tureans Hungary Hungary? I recall xmt Hiftorici j rare incredible happiness greatness of mind vidorijs illustrious, so as well the fame of his name, and the contrary of things Tureas ge (tarum celebrity compare run geftis vt luis ex- let them be seen From whom the least de- Your son-in-law is a great 6c steep lemper intent mind, by virtue of so many merits tiimq-, heaped together, vt promde or already You will give the theme of the world, in the large vir safe argument
So accept this literary mu- no, as my eternal m Thee avid the burden of the burden
found nies the most dignified very capable men you have your breasts; you will enter the largest the plains of their arguments, I have not only tested the strength of your talents. smile, fed anagogic your mind a kind of mystical number by reason of
you enter the realm of eternal happiness. Valt to all the virtues in general Most excellent Count, great honor and glory of Hungary. EGOLLRom Soc. Iefu lyjulij P R AE F A T TO THE READER Tithmology of the mysteries of things wealth packed to publish no long words with no soft curves numerofi racunij lenocinijs fed Laconum propofitum I have an argument with a few short cuts from I took a walk. No I don't know several This is a great deal about the myfka of numbers dodlnna the theme of afatim proecutosfuiffe vt hence poH those, peracLi so mefe, I have nothing else to do with the colledlio of cheap flippers, in which to be explained I will put on my clothes read it Let him laugh
Whatever will be my part leave bark marrow to rhyme: an argument every woman is very important to me important he was alive so also by others its value or to the ignorant or ignorantly the deficient man called to the anvil
fplen ache, I fall I will try to explain it as ex not a little Empubhcam littoraria, then the light, then profit re I trust that he will support me here as well as the gravest authcreate of men what letters, what exhortation as a child tiumtumzjlo Let the glory be ordained the best wearing s z For when he had already ventured out of the secret of numbers. dodlrina forever the ram was accepted fue portentofa fuperHitionum the audacity of the ill-fated men comment m public emer- bear knowledge I am a great fan of the works of the price of jokes come out Let us first consider the properties of numbers next to I will learn geometry you're out of breath
you fear. he will carry Jelettus unharmed, ab illegitimate
fpvrijs, and the pernicifs of the numbers feparatum, rww ad this caution is more curioforum, then to the rivers I'm running a lot of delusions, a lot of lies
false children circafuperfUtiofos of numbers effects to be uprooted, I will strike ft) He was allowed to cook and be in good spirits. contention, my mind to W a little bit of work execute effort, fum. . As for me, go ahead with it the wall: First we give the origin and manufacture of numbers
the manner and reason of the world the inhabitants, ad htc times tn: the numbering of things offered: then more magi [and, with ah H Chaldees, and Arahibufque
We present both the Qracps and the Latins cultivated. To whom indeed properly expoftisy to some strange pronic numbers pro- properties We proceed to explain the barren part of the book. Since There are several of these numbers from the Arab School more curious reasons they were to be contemplated, from here to be sure something human rebusfublimiusfub ipfs recondi [there they perfuarent mentally vn of the first magic of health rudiments they came out y two
whom: the veiled facrofandlos, and exactly they worshiped the gods, csiflrologta, paranymph fabric of amulets emphasizing
of numbers otherwise, infallible arithmetically demonHratioms reasoning tnfflent properties, They have defiled the foul charades with crime. Whom to destroy Gnoficifuccenturiatores impuris perfdetfutfelet docmatis hnd with the Damondatria of the Egyptians they brought
He was followed hofcefultum of Cabalifia the common people, because of the fanaticism of He the numerical bras of the Cabala are not prompt numbers myfte rqs, fed delirium in diuinatoria aitis vfum ajjumpferunti that the fanatical dogma is so abhorrent to the minds of men art He was infatuated with the narrowness of the vfu big what fe obtain let them be seen, fi d every Satanx miniHro buiufmodi number they have received the sacrament: whose fallacies indeed and great impostures from the very foundations in iii, iv Let's break the Here also in the same way very high
he retorts the real myftagogy of numbers how in the last of this Books we deliver in part. in which the myths of numbers reasons next to S. The mind of the fathers
multiple fenfus reasoning supported we explain There was no small profit from it in Leltoris the mind will emanate I will trust
tsllyfticam exhibition see on the front page of the book: In which. Monas Tri-una fub triangle compreherfa on that side s into the Angelic new world of Choirs while intellectual
three hierarchies that lia triangles keel is marked with a entangled hairpin disparity in flows; times throughout the world intelleElualem flue Angelicum, in aSUundum Sidereum. and from here into a demented mirv for both of them fp shares fe in an indescribable way. V for you ccnditrix fapicn- aunt, Tri-unain in number, hang menjura trina diuifone He created everything so also the five wise men of the Hebrews of Crassus of the world as well understanding a matter of bodily injury not in a better way, than through abstracts of such numbers reasons to be exposed to pojfe I went out marun
He saw this wonderful world of things concatenate the nation of the Siracides in Fuo Ecclefiaphic chap. i. while of the Wise tia profaned, the newspaper brought out this epiphonema
Disciplines Sa- piety? from whom she was rejected and manifested herself
multiplication his more serious who understood? one it is we are proud
creator almighty of all He is a mighty King, and he is too much to be feared the ruling God under his throne; ipfe created
him him in the Holy Spirit saw dinumcraoic, Sc men- he was effusive, and poured out upon him all his works fua, And htc There are some that I have taken to share with LiElcrt curiofo. It's worth it cceptijquefaue JOHN PAVIVS OLIVE SOCIETY IESV The chief General
Vm, the balance of P. Atbanafij Kirchieri Softrar Society Sacer, dowry, of Myderij's secret numbers
three of them The Society of Theologians recognized, in the light I ate poAe-e If they have proved it, we grant them the opportunity, as it is commanded in writing icta ijs j acfcjuos pertains, it will be seen. In the faith of which matter, Sc. Dat-Eoms xS. jfouembris
lom Paul Olw&r 3tepnmatur, flvideBitnr F, Mag. Sac. PaIatijApoil, tkAzehitp. PatmcenJf T is imprinted Hyacinthus Libellus Sacri Pal. INDEX OF CAPITALS Where? are contained in this Book
Part I. Of the Priests of Numbers known and their device origin
Chapter i. On the origin of the first numbers. fol. i. Chapter Concerning the numerical characters of the ancient Greeks, any device
fol. y. Chapter iVe4f) of numbers. fol. i Chapter Of the Latin priests known for their Arithmetic which origin manufacture
vap. Of numbers, to whom the Latin priests vtebanrur, device
Gap. On. Agorithm. Of the cyphers, the current fiue day of vfitator numbers originally device
Part II On the mysteries of certain numbers, whom Proni- they call it their properties
Preface to Lcdor. f0 p chap r. Of the wonderful numbers of the effeds
Chapter Of the myfierijs huiufinodi of numbers. fol. c? 4. Chapter Of Mathematicus device: Sc conflrudienis di- according to the reason of the seals. fbl. yr.
The square confru&io, which from the ternary in feip smoke dti&o conftituitur, and the Seal of Saturn,
Second square that from in faith git, I will conftrude Mathematica, and the Seal of Jouis is called. 3. Mathematical rertijconflru&io of squares, that 8c Sigilurn is called Tuesday. .4. On the mathematical construction of the fourth square Controversial Square
Square On Rooms. foLi c6 Chapter Of other things, and of the arrows of this kind of numbers dip fision. , fol. iio. Chapter Of the pronrciiy numbers. and theirs in squares whether the dsfpofition of the terms
With the seals they made avcccx. Chap. r On various ways, which Hebrews Arabs-Sigi! 3a they were making fua. , Part IV. . Arithmonaamia-GnoiTieorurn per fiuos. of the mysteries of numbers, those Gnoltic Heretics first of all to go magical operations Prccfation
the princes of the Cnoflis. veritas exgonituiv loLi Chapter Chapter Other Seals not difficult as they proceeded. a thousand interpretations
Part V. Of Magical Chapter Explanation of some Seals, Chapter On the Pythagorean Cabala, .
Chapter On the Wheel of Death Part Myllagogia Numerorum fiue dcMyffica nume-
Prophecy Chapter On the Monad, the mythic vanity. Chapter How do you get revenge or manas? can be said
Chapter De Myfterijs Tetradis feu quaternarij. Chapter Dc Quinarius, Senarius, Septenarius, 6cc. vfque ad A penny was spared. Chapter On the Chain of Numerals by numbers eK- prefects Chapter, 6. About thousands of chains of numbers
A kind of natural fabric pul- the beginning of the number efl of the mind for experiences, viti brutes, do not count i fed here ipfe nothing else efl, than reason explained
for that reason main number The pious of them is proved by the reason by which they are reached that nothing of all things should remain after that cat: for fiue you reason, fiue you compose, fiucdiui- you give, you will die, be fine in any place. MUmerusra by reason of comparing one with the other, or vmim from the other t, 0
feed that indeed cannot be done by number: vt hence Plato, asking Neocli, why man is fapient. dung be defined as an animal, not incongruously reply iit, hi tty&pSt: because he knew how to count
And. tx this combinatorial mind reasoning multi-tasking that complex the most fertile of numbers origin which vti out of vanity that great and archetypal flowed forth
understand with the hand until at last it flowed into her, for it is refined For indeed men to manifest ftandos the innermost concept of the soul with the same number rum in the shape of a fubfiften, a foreign cousin like a horse I play something they required how many of this kind latent concepts in the mind they would manifest, hence born: are different: those: of the various nations, whom I am afraid of they explained, nora and fymbola, which: or from the first nalcen- the cradles of the world origin Yours duxifle so much so it is certain, how certain are the volumes of the Pentateuch, those who are already alive and still human protoplast of the genus the number forming the system of viguiife, better ris note: interpreters from Sacra Geneveos Hifloria. wide they bring forth reasonings, where Adam is the first of all He is said to be the inventor of arts and sciences: &Suidas hifce The finding is not mcroiump. he teaches with words: let us eat the first by the hand of God ejfechiSy to the image tp fimditude of God, formed
by right the first to be called Wise ro7y ltfy JoKiftaQctQ tKoLet' Kff) I vowed oulof
j&foQaj kJ) rov filor drahcuti lat tPityrai- H yours; therefore they are skills fg) of this [science, rational ft) non-rational, that is, mechanics, all the elements of this, and whatever arrw to the rvita neceftariafunu
He was the protoplaBw of all of them. Whence Jubal Enochidesab was introduced into the same Adam. Arithmetic Sc Mufica, which he had learned, a vfunu of an inhuman kind
When, therefore, neither singing nor intruments the difpofition of finite numbers, and marked with nails intervals of competence to be done would like after all them better than that first I remember the origins of the world, could be done, just ex- He was there, and the law of those who wanted to inform them was written. But what kind she? have been, for the time immemorial the gall of old age is envious of us, so also nothing for us snow conjectures to know them, they are lost Rabbis, and among the castles the more famous Rambam was given, in the fuo Mo- re nebuchim, id eil, perplexoru m Do&ore, he thinks some kind of numerical characters don't be shy otherwise snow purfuta or linens, from which v washed out of vanity, am- Most of the numbers they would bring out the leries: his words translated into Hebrew (unt
is it hidden? immediately not too much yes aoocfttntT
mnw amun mauconn The first filtjAdam- just as "the Rabbis do not know rum memory in blessed Elion, they delivered, they found clay calculations f and their figure, not inferior t lod puff
for from this multiplication the numbers presented ban: this pa$oper i lod, they expressed bi- two noses they noted, the ternary of the tribe
in which in Thargum the Name of God three times we see the press; And let it be of the rest, that of the first Abacus column? known, it is evident from the books of the Rabbis
form I give Rambam full of pain xorum From lod he- blindfold in vain numbers re- who composed they were not The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. formed by i embrace Rab Kimchi, Rab de Balmis teaches in Dicduk fiuein fua grammar, which Corifuk And so it does not seem inconceivable, first old men, this kind of pundtor's multiple ad- control, fubdudtian and multiplication dew species exhibited, because of whom pkrike- and literate experts, no tires tight
or Magillr's intru&ion didtamine with reason through punda or linoleum, which in the present age in the ruftics if they wanted to come, they shouted mod 'scom. lam coal or chalk
Those. 1IIH. to think with reddened starches, men experience do For more, this mode will be more inconvenient than the viva all of the numbers fpecies would be aptly expressed by it, He- gradually neglect of the punished accumulation, Al- the great men of letters, instead of numbers, are vfi, whose artificers I hate it. inventor Eufebius Nierembergius Ahram appropriately book on the origin of the Sacred: Scripture: and literature he does. Then he made Egypt from the descendants of Ham born, the first T of all who poft-Cataclifmunx icientiarura and the worship of the arts, and also the invention of Arithmetic Jophephos, famous in the world, who gave birth to the Hebrews ptiofque the Chaldaeans were made, and fuccelfu temporunu The Syrians, and finally the Greeks from the Roman Greeks, mere through the alphabet expressing letters while the borrowers were exhausted, it is clear from the following table. From the earliest beginnings of the art of writing, the letters Alpha- beti Hebrews in the place of the numbers, nicely
lAlacus of the Alphabets of the principal languages that They used letters instead of numbers Rufticus method
they offer some both in Geneva and in the best and most powerful number of letters Roots: For they begin either with limbs or hemillicha yerluum next to the letters of the alphabet: this pa&o they are divided
or begin with whole numbers more true of the pfalmos, because it is to be seen, plalm.
You turn each letter two times, when atu? !
some varieties, however, begin: In pfalmo fingulJE letters o&onos begin in order, whence to- At the same time, the pfalmus has o&onarios, which at Hebrews they are letters of course from the Hebrews are called JYian 'KfrO Rafche the it is, the heads of the voices Thanks that is the beginning of the words. It is found in St this acroftichid genus in Jeremiah's train, which from in- Terrified lamentations are made For in four indeed, with the first heads of the letters of the alphabet
is found there viz or rather a word of mouth in the same order in the third chapter cutos-ixv it is a fish because of the clay letters in three vertices or dine lint initials
Most of all, indeed in this rumor they became famous as smiters, whom the Hebrews otiiipon
in general Caballiftas, of lecrets sacred Scnptura oc- cabaiiftaru current phenyl interpreters call
endl totify vt myfteria fub lacris pages hidden by nu- mere ftib letters Hebrews, escape The truth about today in many different ways, for example-J demonftrata, says Tom very II. Oedipus syn- tag of the Hebrew Cabala But what about 8c such as lint numbers
I will infuse we know we turn back Diffcruio First, therefore, of numbers
such a customer rushes, you will hit the vmuerlas of numbers, nine Acts
the first of which indeed male praVW, that cfl nouenaria vnitatum, the first nine letters it contains, but not Hebrds only, fed Chaldeans, Syrians, Arabs, Cop- tis, Graxis, Ethiopians, Armenifquc vfitato, vr in- epilogue of the numbers of all the various nations the nations of Abaco QumtjT, ikS( clear. the other ClalTis is nine denarii, imu I'm sorry The third Claps rft nine centenarians
identical of winemakers the clafTs of the millenarians; and heretofore all They would like to express the number of hits
"nets II. futJcPcot flow of nine hundred denarii.
email dxetfo&iPwr, flue Nouenaria centenariorum.
the flow of the Nineteenth century.
This The Origin Fabrication of Numbers.
In this way we celebrate the year of Christ's grace numerical letters ODtPteiN. or fiction: doqh Chal- but of the Daes, of the Syrians, of the Copts, and of the rest of the Arabs and among the Nouenarios, that is, cmdtPat difpofitiono See method method quoted a little before the table the sum of all numbers Why to the Greek rum let's move forward Capt II. Of the Gracchus numeric characters
Vantum from Homer; and others we were able to explore the monuments, all of them I was books according to the alphabet Greece difpofuiifcj letters I find the king of Homeric books clearly It is clear who said to the ancients. Grammatical, tant, from Ariftarch so that it was difpofiti as the first book would it be inscribed aa? The second j Tertius at- that this padto, producing books, was numerically fua the letter they were writing They called They are found: then in the old Manuscript Codes The books of Fubindedi and L are quoted in another way viz.
I say of this kind; pottery nothing something else eff, which by abbreviation gave them
Collect books for this I padto through lined by by annexation the first book
Li6ft Hottic such as god gni of the Greeks of old in
by Genitiuum by a. They alluded to the ra of the Datius; IlL fruitful indeed book citation
fruitful, They pretended to allege the book, for the impossibility of the words, which I brought here to be added, as Ledor sometimes He willed a manufcripra of this kind, which from this one untied by knots, have But now to the rest of the pro- let's go
How, then, did the Greeks number the ancients? let them display the letters of the alphabet, the table of numbers com- method binary exade demonsflrat
etc. indeed vfque ad quinarij notam, monads addition III. IUI vte- they are banned: indeed, this should not be more than xquo Confucius if they were to bear, a quinary instead of five vinitatus, per n Quinarij II. which is the initial letter of the word trttTe blaspheme, to whom Cur'
they added to the same vow lines etc A denarius jum, in the place of which they wrote the letter A, initial err
lemme is the literal meaning of the word Uko. : Following poilea de- noses to be exhibited
twenty years expressed by two A A, tricentennial tribe A A A. forty years old luor. A A A A. but the fifty-year-old would say no, to whom St i was fixing
NkcuPw addition, the number produced vf- that to a hundred; which number they expressed by H
But why this hundredth number by the letter H (which: the fertile order of the letters of the Gra: ca-Alphabet Odonarius notes that they are not other than nifi) therefore It has been said that the letter hxc is composed of a double letter II reda, the other inerfa sufina U, qua: fimul iunda, yes fignificantvex with which the famous hxc centenary H is made. what Why I Roujet. both of which fi A to include image- (of which. , however the addition of data works compendtj caula neglect become they seem emerge two quinquagcnarij, to whom one {W&VcTaf Ime centenarian not incongruously expressed sends. But who
which they think to represent the Ionic hundred, origi- They want to smoke a gin, but not to hear it tKUToy's voice in all the Greeks Dialcdto, never with H It should be found
And from this note back tita by the addition of vfqtie to 'what? they fixed this note What would you say? , zrrVTe to the millennium and so on they reached, which from initial voice that mil'e notes, X they expressed the note i this time and again re- requested
as much as this note R7 clay pot d ceres n and at last there
the initial letter is expressed, process Then and now, the monad is suspended again, a decade
heck taunted, with the addition of ichiliad and myriads, row of dews a little m infinite propagated
fub fex with his friends known all the old Grjecomnu he comprehended the account, they are self-fertile. desire
H. a couple of llu straight Seinuerfa from initial knee
from the initial letter The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. Epilogifmus next to the Enneads poor Three odtts I. Ws Nineteenth anniversary
li. male Nineteen denarii
SOO. Nineteen thousand years old.
ftOOOO [tv&ctcFci)? Nineteenth day millennials
In Herodianus the Greek Grammar has notes, other times diaiun nux the fex of the Gratcis numbers, tjux from the initial letters rco? jm almost fuming, what osmes quate vlabui lusfyziga? 4ifpofki(? w HOtvT Another one Thanks vfitatus Of numbers Epilogue
notse, and that twice in the days of Clafle-enneadica fiue nouenariaj they are added to the right, as it is done
Excellency The number people from In fact known The number of the players in captivity you Babylon of numbers what
they found myriads men that night I calculate cast id elt, a forty-year-old woman hundred thousand-Sc men, I'm wobbly millions, one hundred tk one, and men, lofephus iib. z. chap. the number of judges from the Babylonian Captivity lu- return home fuilTe otiTaxwAioi three Lamitas id ell, four million, fex- -one hundred and twenty oto thousand. . Capt III.
shoulders And among the Greeks they are mentioned in Numbers, which io-aquipBs, that is, water calculus, they call, whom from the Hebrews defumpfemnt; they were confused but these numbers in it which he found in two names in refined numbers from the equality of the numbers from the different names with them a repulsion, either for good or for evil cleverly hinted 6c Cabalilli especially it is in vfu But let us add some examples
Gap. Revelations it is considered fiction
to guide the mind plundered et- calculate the number of beHie, for the number his efi Dki cannot the mere tor of many interpreters strikes the genius: so much so The Origin Fabrication of Numbers,
Almost all interpreters at this place T4U' to be expedited they will leave Heretics nuhuTL they will not move a stone which n as they count this Ro- by the hand of the Pope j whom they call Antichrist once upon a time
They think that they have faith in it in two names: A Sc in Hebrew no. which give the numbers l j
But these things will add to this while, strangely twisted they smoke it, so that they can betray it to him, vt in this example Hebrews no
you presented it is clear where Romerj The Romans that from Pon- manufacturer
led with number one unable to find, appo- they were them in the end no. note
they claim Romjjth, and adverbially nothing something else pawn let it be done, as the Romans, who did not pretend to be anything, I will refurry it
Catholics indeed Sc ortho- I taught him, laughing, how those against Rome they plotted against the Pope, her in Luther They retort Calvin. For in the name of so- legal ptonunciatione the same; number Appalypnicus
is contained vti 6i in a patrician named Luthe for he was a Saxon See Bellarmine's book of Anucmid of these, the acting
fan out cleverly number the dew fell upon him as he skinned him per-
for the voice in nu- mere rcloluta the same number it gives: Thus there is no Nile with the Men river com to repound the dew so what number of them? let him make as many of course as the year whole solar di- we are
Such is what is read of the Name in the Sibyllic Oracles IESV with these words and will be the number of monads dcca Origin& FabricaNumeroru rrc
icadum hecatontacLm odo, k S into the plate for the number is reflected in the name IH20T2,
With what kind of numbers, etc. , the old Latins vfos fu i fle, monfeauit Ionis SfmufacrunL. which the ancient Ro- of mana ancient writers? vt if indeed the right hand of T? mGniftra indeed
liceraspraderret T that in numbers re- happy they give What is the year? was it supposed to be wool? See if it would contain as many days as the same day Pliny said this to Suida in the voice of every one book
Tratered fan twin d diurna "Rfge dedicatuss qui. is worshiped by the gument so with the fingers figured
who ta- but by numbers they are not so much Solar as Lunarent nutth Vtpote qut twelve lunations, he conflates he understands just as during the previous year, the Solar year ex- He presided when the year of the Sun becomes days, vi- two mendum comiffum rn Pliny, who in the year xerit) for they confer Lunar years. ed iara ad of the name Antkrrriin, which when contain the number The writers of these starches Irenaeus? Aretha Capa dox, Priraafms, Ticrnfus, and Rupertus Abbot? in dido already by bringing forth a number of various names yt to confess vsjisatena? am I ready here? that to return fe- The Origin Fabrication of Numbers
let him do it, we want to elicit i Since this same number is non-r impious only Antichrifto, Icd Sacris, God's no- can be applied to minibuses indeed, the sacred names in- they can be fired, that I may contain this number in fe, vt many at this point demonftrarepoflem, become divine of glory I did not believe that I would meet with this name
But let us still add the names of the Antichrist refiltered in
Lady Antichrist to which the Apocalyptic number is conuenitex Cappadocia, Pnma- JipyTicinio, (covered by Abbate extraEl
Enandas AV7ifioe Inclinate Latin KOLKOg. OcPnyds bad leader Sun Titan true more harmful I deny it zsrccActf BcLOTtctvas repeated enmity Shining hydg ctcPiKQg the lamb V ior Genfericus
MaoptTi; . Mohammed Xttfymof
Rock pICarDVs. that cil Calinus The Origin Fabrication of Numbers
These are the names of the Apocalyptic books in number created, of whom innumerable aia from those, with whom (at the time And he left, no longer being brought daughters to be found polished.
The Origin Fabrication of Numbers, Certainly the Mohammedans cx fua more popular newspapers bullets
And this name was given initials where? let me become a cellist fponfi deno-
tant) vt is clear in a frequent example, from which then the magic bus fua figiikvti Cabala Saracenic Oedipus Ode to the Egyptians dirnuS) they make It is true that these are all names dirty and profane. the bad and the good are easily accommodated they are overflowing nor any talent or get a kick nent) so also with great ones nvyfterijjs turgid i believe) not snow I think he is weak in mind. The truth about this one iroQiu vanity is given more abundantly in those who are fertile reason cooking material I send the Hare there
I was privy to the well-known Arithmetic of the Latins, and that ori pine A complex of numbers today at Latmus? Ariibmsticaram of things Writers ire viu ctl r An ancient horror I was introduced at the other times.
Prior letter J a tinoinm ve- Origin fabric on the shoulders.
Before I was born letters from the alphabet prompt in Latin conltatj with which every number expressed: 8cfunt: IVXLCDM who really
they teach the Roman script, but only with a thin layer of Latin tongue-tied jn htec vlque times last
The other from St Mathematicis, polleris, vti I said, times introduce so much so that he pervaded every place, that most of them neglected of the ancient Romans with larger numbers (who vti to the great calculations accounts with facility they did not seem to be so fit to be expedient so no no one Chronological inscriptions, political and literary tura: men be reported) small leaves, namely zy- priests, both mathematicians, and merchants, himself with that finally they want to fix something with numbers, there Of the former of numbers, first, then more popular, the origin of which is most likely to be investigated we married, we will say something.
The origin of the ancient numbers Prilcianus Origo Lati- Valerius Probus, the third Scaliger, they will write a fic
vmta- they noted the letter I, than in the quinary of all the excluded
they kept repeating They, by V. notu, fcribed quinarium for some think that half of it was lost dena rij numbers X, neither therefore, because o
i n this one wild rum fferant through OV, if you want remaining V. fuftuiilfent y fed that the fifth between the vowels A E I O V He would poll the place. therefore letter quinary mean bat, to whom the vinities attach the number to the penny ban. V He; But the number of a penny they noted suit 0ri s n"' ra a eoouod in the Alphabet in order a half-liter tx x v
le- The Origin Fabrication of Numbers would be born; with an equal number of hundreds ftatuiflent by C, fertile letter D five-year-old de- could be, or because immediately C in alphabetical order It is done, because Probus wants it or as others please, because between D M, which represents a thousand, from D that is to say M and so on, five to read let them intervene, this pado
e fi g, i, fi M. so it was not counted among the letters); or as Scaliger di- cit, that D lit capital letter of the name Half, that half a thousand years represents the number j most of them, however Centenary numbered C. from the first letter Centum-
vine millenarij number noram M, from the initial number Mil- read quingenarij number mark D, from half a millennium rij, id ell (for what we have said) from the initial letter of the word- Dimi- day, accepted vo! unr, fifty. narij but no service so L, not by name
fed from the Greeks inlhtuto from lte S rotaL I was thought to cry, Prifcianus for vti through no They expressed fifty, yes the chief Latins, who of this elements instead, they put it repeatedly
v. c Lympha- for Nympha, imitating the Greeks, into this also. vfum L for N iubftituerqquamquamhtec ratio mukis diipli- eat, of which see Matthew Hofius. . Whatever it is done it is clear
in the times of the Roman priests numbers are still unknown foilTe, so much so The Romans, with the help of this fraudulent number, confounded the years fixed dauis, painted 8c Volfci in the Temple, Nortiae Dete He- ufciB Vti Plin. c. delivers
oUmRonw Quamcbiem better known numbers vftuw. really The Origin Fabrication of Numbers.
rents, read from the old Pmor Maximus Clauum fix qiue fixing Claui's law then returned to Confu- les, 5c finally to the Didator with great rites self cxri monijs was carried out, of which see Rofinus
lip fmm, Alexander from Alexander and other Antiquities Writers of the Romans. Veruntamen vt dida liquid be understood for a long time Here I brought the words of the Prifcians, of which we easily know the intent it will be clear. These really and the Latins, too, are imitated in most of them
Five by because fifth eH focal A E I O ten per because the tenth confounding efl with Grtcos Q el quod poji SI is done by the Latins
fifty by because among the ancients (fracos C for "N. ,qu& note
that is, Tarrheus Latmi also Lympha they say for 9lymph, wanting to munjlrare the water v. elfonten: Virgil first Dantfamuli's hands with lymph and Cererem's dog's A hundred, but by the principal of the name literally
oShfiUe fertile Atticus through I'm going to die becomes difference to ten, around on the sides of the CXD. Five: a thousand per
w junt apoHrophi CCIDD. this in imitation of the Greeks, who V. nius note, fuhr vQm line now too they will write fiction Fifty
old Latin rum rum Origin Fabrication of Numbers; miles per half and three on the right side apoflrcbos IDDj. Centum soldier through! the middle three in the right par I will help you in the fnifra so many CCCiDDD. Or that more likely eH ten thousand is marked by M. cir- from both sides. fic CM3. how a thousand by X circumfcriptam ex Troque laterefic CO ft) this ad cipalemfui of the name torches cjl because thousands also thousands per [I am surrounded by force jolet notari, fc CM D. therefore five thousand with fmt and a half a part of ten thousand, half a part run fic: 1DD. how fifty thousand and a half a hundred thousand. which number by the same mark is ten thousand I am still wounded on both sides around conclusions CCCIDDD Five hundred thousands through Q3. that be the beginning of the name, apoflropben zSVfille like thousands by much the name begins with itra- which part I have circumscribed CMD, jic CCM
True, he conspired much with him (int, scarcely more perfidious from the judgment of the Greek authorities propeller let us return to the mind of the ancients a little clearer we will
we went down in the preceding Chapter, the Old Latins, always the best of the alphabet in numbers fub The Origin Fabrication of Numbers.
I V X L C D M. to whom the same way repeated mixed and properly combined, all of the quality dem oubiar of numbers holidays are expressed; st pul chre fane the calculation of the numbers oAtync how come the calculations are carried out in a quarter; anger vt perpetually in quin- couple or tenfold this out! i alternately increased; off the first; indeed two note; , Aug The Enneads are brushing their chins by adding Vnita- then the other two notes X St. L with the increase of the ennead de- nostrils; but the note of the third: the centenary of the Ennead; ; so monadic femper poft; W four Vnrtates in decade you say four or in four hundred years. It is clear that D vti is shown in this diagram r Ennead Monadum. i. ii. ii i. iii i kv. vnvii. vt ii; viin. Seiuiunr Enneadi Decadoti7rM. xx. xxXcXXxxir. ix exs. &xmjj Ennead dc. dcc. eccciccco Sef tima tandem feti vltima note M note: milfenarij, , in any way come on on the right, and on the left others In numbers before the vei poftpofita fuum femper protects the vale rem are expressed as one thousand and five hundred belt
gintaiSic indeed the polished DLXM do the same thing as the quin- a nation of sixty thousand. But the janis to the fabric confti- closer to these numbers let's go
In the following some of the stems systems of these notes handed down from Frifciano and Valerius Probus mus: True with all the better notsr. Auihoribus. ixm no doubt another secret is hidden, which the ancients rnot# here The Origin Fabrication of Numbers; Device no
tarum nurr. e rally at times The origin of V. hafcc invented more detailed features: for neither they can be said to have been taken literally from the Latin alphabet, from that chapter, which I, not the first, fed the ninth in Alpha- let him take the place of beto, and not V. with that twenty-first I will go in order of letters not even when she take the first place in the order, and therefore the ten pawns it cannot be fixed; nor with her eleventh in I will take place in the alphabet, literally be said they are overflowing Whoever, therefore, Priicianus of these marks the issue is brought forth, not the leaves will be requested far away, fed improved according to the judgment of the Authors, no jufta well-founded ra- are based on. Here while I more closely with me I was hanging, I saw at last the same feciflfe Profound old men The Latins, which quoted the early Hebrews nations of things still unexperienced, in the conflict of numbers we said priftitifle fupra Wherefore, the first note of courage
hil something else, than one thing that flignifies, monads office that is, it is assumed that he who paid back vinities in duplicate
triple cat quadrupled IUI. So let us not be too vain growth spurt they would introduce
numbers they changed their marks: whence here V, quinarij notes alteraj, who will pretend five, to i reported, it is fivefold, He had a collision with the first note i. twins
to go to the foot, which is an acute rectilinear angle report: this V. quinarij known from half of the uncuffs born therefore, instead of entering vintatum pofue run than by the continuous addition of to a penny and so forth, I express monadic enneads The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. Your progress is clear. Again X note denarij not from elsewhere it seems like a long time ago, nift from two lines connected by the cufiation, half of which represents the quinarij mark
from the voice of the deculti, it emerges to deflate itself, that is to say, all of it a figure of two born of the slaughter of lines, quarru again and again multiplying vf to not too much in- in addition to this note: to avoid confusion, this inside read note L which of the two lines in extremity in each case in one joint, L collapsed, number itu
ODlique du- quintuple increased as well as a note particular from the first it is broken note I twinned, one of which I returned the same, the other proflrataj not incongruously fused cenferi can so, however, vt
guide to the foot on the right side junctx, right angle. let them do it, and report the inherited gnome. We have so- that four of these figures X ex lines con- intrusion It just follows Centenary numbers no- that, which by means of C. tial They want the origin of Jitera (Centum) to be duxifle, nothing Ubnca C yet it blows, from which and the same from the lines return con- ihtuta has been; For vt was noted by Hoftius and alijf
The monuments of the ancient Infcriptions fat in to which r. o femper form C referr, fed fubinde this pa- when he was once wounded, He himself was brought down by Gruterus brought forth it is clear AI L M where for CAI CA H posits, vt therefore because of the arcuate dudtus easy years old than the old ones, Hoflij judieio, from note of victory, fed tri- folded, they composed themselves, which was easier, note: quin- Or because"
quagenarix, they placed the other line at the top, 8e I'm going god soo The Origin Fabrication of Numbers from L became known as C. hundreds of years how identical at the same time multiplying to double double proportion continuously be wild instead of They poured out the D mark, which exorcises us we think so, not that the letter in the alphabet
the tenarij mark would be made immediately vti Prifcianus he wants, fed or something the initial womb fills half a millennium, because it pleased Lophephos. Scaiigerus, or the best of all, that in the ancient litcra D not through the arc, fed a triangular shape from these lines it would be painted with signs of vanity
this padto, tc eat this truth, some infcriptions they teach at Gruterum. M. that is, Dis Manius Yes the letters of the entire alphabet dear in a varied context, as Hebrxi ex
in the first times, we hated fuas conihtuiife fupra, but it is not very close As much as various menus I would certainly say that I have finished with my reflection
first elements of Latin first from the Hittites fuilTe communicated, Herodotus in plain words fi- it signifies ]. i Most of the Latins from H'etrufets, 'Vtpote an- tiquioribus, I received literx Hetrufcx, whose non- no great friendship with the Latins. they have fat fu and demonstrant vti in noftra Hetruria, willingly Dcojfuse we will find Lily Giraldus another of old Latinoru ru to make figures through letters by numbers, who for the sake of: also he will add, from which Author them pulls out; for this ipfo many d vatijs doubts lie- it will be wasted
D. D. Five hundred E. Two hundred why forty F. Forty G. Forty Hundred H. Two Hundred One K. LI Fifty one L Fifty M. M Thousand No. Ninety O. xl Fifteen Forty Hundred D Five hundred Ochngen ra seventy T. Cent box score V. V Five X. X Ten Y. CL. one hundred and fifty gin II Two thousand A Five thousand Three thousand A hundred thousand Two hundred and fifty thousands Forty thousands G Four hundred thousand H Two hundred thousand Thousands
thousands Fifty thousand thousands N Ninety thousand Oh fifteen thousands Four hundred thousand Five hundred thousand R Eighty thousand Seventy thousand lexicon thousands Five thousand X Ten thousands Y Hundred fifty thousands twice a thousand thousand
the thousandth number in let them say But let us return to the thousandth Number
Nui- Lily Turns! those difpofitia Various thousand- narij nume ri notes,
The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. No known number of such vctuftate tempo- He fubijt a variety of rum, which is known as a millenary number. For at first it is fixed the letter M, which of recent letter A thousand, as almost everyone admits
Secondly, it is written by two C's, of which one rc the latter, the other is infertim, to which the monadic note in- I was calmed down, but I didn't know what to do. a thousand Thirdly, it is written hoe padto, cxa. as well as a thousand pretends
Fourthly, it is written by the cipher of the number o&onarij protracted cc
Fifthly, it is written by mediating the marks of the parents this padto cia for it is with Paulus Manutius Sixth it is also found caught (T) vt is at Peter Ciacconius book of the weights of Scmenfur, and others
It is true that, finally, what about the caufa: so much variety it emerges, and whence it derives its origin, it is known, I will explain the matter in a few words
Why? therefore first through i. e. a thousand they have pretended old people, I think that's funny, because the first to note this by double D D millenarij mark exprcflcrint, which a lot of time a line D closing the figure
the middle between the two i. e left This is so a fad how much very bright He informs us of this millenary note Origin Fabrication of Numbers.
note which is nothing else than the first of two QD inerfi, the return of another into one union, whence charadle r
emerfif, So you have here the origin of the note a thousand rise
Indeed, what is the origin of this mrllenarian nora? cxa according to Holvij I explain the mind, 6c I say the same than the preceding one: For when millenarian at Thank you Atticus it would be written by X, that is, from initial letter of the word; which represents the same thing join safe character
Let the Romans put it in your hands re- they took him,
with X denarius note would be confused, eu circumscribed by the sides C brought the middle, this padfco cxo: from which at last the summaries note
what a foolish millenarian brand I was becomes, while two c a redtum 5e inueifucn horns fuis apr catchment four horns known I noted this And so you see the origin of this note OO; however Ciacconius cited instead of cat by this number c it could have been founded, two that is, with the horns c a care vnitis
to whom no re- fist, although the first reason is more alas; itari aydpotixviat
to meet. Again he sent to Paul Manucius lenarij known fifcripta repentance cio
the origin of which is known washes away from what we have learned from C. viz in the early days of the C. lcriptu fuiffe this note c. with ergo This is the same thing that C. notes, the reason why this number is clear by CIO brand they will express
Which is true after millenary note This figure is not abhorrent to him Orn- their The Origin Fabrication of Numbers Kcta corum w or fic inucrsc ff) fcribanturidico have the same really the origin, than cn differ rents, that two c o with i in the end this does not mean there, in the former truth, they are indeed connected from one point of view, the other but not
that of the writer however feilinant rather, it was introduced by concussion, than the vfu received I think
a thousand narij ftint Reihc just the origin of this millennia known to be explained Some people say that this is a confederation from x and with two lines closing the character above and below, this little X
for you betray the horns of the cross she li- they formed this character in their own way. or even that two those triangles marked DD, quic to the priests The Latin form of fub exprelTas of the triangle go away, fapra I said no: whence combining these two tips sons in one this note however proceeding much to the truth he becomes more childlike. Here, therefore, are the five marks of numbers millenary which old ones now this, now that way according to to them xati diCtabar, they expressed, they are faeces.
CTII3 From whom then all Giliad Myriadumquc In this agreement they formed a group of gods: first of all richly known by the nobles of thousands of years whole half they expressed
for I did it by now. they noted that efl: half a thousand years I will give you half elt ccia Origin Fabrication Numbers
CIDC CI CID CIO CIO CIO. . Ter surely it exists in Cicero in
Verrine itL. edition Paul Manutius
pite days cio cio cio however translators should be added here they want joke that ell 5oo. vt all nu- it becomes a mere Note, however. Centenary C. millennium M from the end for the second pair, he increases the same value, viz. XM ten thousands Six hundred thousand
So Pli- new book Chapter MM paJZ. ab Mlexandria abeil Op- lice Juliopolis it will go, thousands thousands of paHuunu however today hsc note for smoked. . Note also at this point, that I became one of these characters only state, and a third x denarij, 6c other known pre- they diminish the value of the finiftrorf with the same fuo, added trorfum increases the same
ix inrorum reduce the value. .
n Dextrorphum increases the value of polished. -
What, indeed, a Prifcis IV etc written has been diminutively that's done I think therefore, not a monadic sign, decade cam, or they would be forced to repeat the centenary as many times as possible
Porrb cci30 ten thousand is known, viti SecM3. vel IUI, proceeding cid. tenfold, and by the same ratio twice three times four it may be repeated, because it shoots
CCI It certainly occurs twice in Cicero! ib. to Atticus. For Fpiftola
Cicero fc speaks: L. Cincio HS XXIII I thought I would take care of it. Fel In the future but epiphtola repeats these words: Cincio HS cci
cei cccc. for [the megaric fires
you to me [cripferaa To whom indeed he does not insinuate otherwise, the nifi of the fefterti twenty thousand, himself four hundred fifty, is half of the whole CCCI Examples of which are given in the Oration for Q Rofcio Commodus edition of Paulus Manucius, car
In fact, whole note cccioaa likewise with Cicero Epiphtola is found at Atticus, with he said: Home {Aliriana of Naples, which you have already grown up cx built you had in mind AI on the front he bought Hb. ccccicoo xxx that is
whenever you want can be counted, as in cited for Rolcio Gemmoco Ora- Cicero's speech He did, while saying: 7Yo6 God for faith
who H S. ccc iodo, ccc cccidm, qu. tfm to do he did not want, he thought
none they will return crowned, however other exam these numbers are mostly due to the ignorance of the interpreters
or I am very confused about the transcripts distorted rep they laugh
But this one we don't know genuine interpretation Well, two big things: trustworthy antiquities How bright are the mints? demonstrate
of whom first eif Tabefis Column: Roltrats fragment, in the Capitol on this day and every day, from whence the truth of these numbers the reason is to be asked for to major the matter I have led to add here the atteftation of the truth, of which Petrus Ciacconius of Lephedum fuppled in his proper de hu-buh we published a book with an interpretation of the column toho Wr-" so
BiJios. M. F. Cos. aduorphon Cartacinienleis. en. The Sicilian thing. Cerens. years cocnams People. Eomans. artifumadobfedeoneD. eXFMET. LECLONEIS ca ca- ninfeis to all MAXIMOSQVE. MACILSTRATOS
Excavate M ACELAM the wall vrbem pVCNAN- DOD He took THEN. THE SAME. MACeilratod. piofpeie rem. We will ship. HUSBAND CONSOL. . FIRST. Carry refmecofque cLASESQV NAVAL. FIRST. OR- NAV AND. And it will stop
EIS NAVEEOVS CLASEIS. POENICAS, EVERYONE. ready to fight sV- The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. sVMAS Copies Carthage. ipaxumod dictatored. OlorOM IN. ALTOD. MARID PVCnando. will win Naueis onion CVM SOCIETIES. SEPTEMBER things and mom. leader because mOS QVE TRIRESMOSQVE. NAVEIS. XX. prefet. . auroM CAPTOM. NVMet D C C arcenTOM. , CAPTOM. PREY NVMEI c
leg CAPTOM. AES 'cccIddd cccIddd cccIdddd cccIdddd "T r cccbao cccIdod cccIddd
CCCIDDD CCCIDDD CCCiDDD c7cIddd cccIcdd, cccIddd cccIddd, cccIddd cccIddd ccclaaa ccclaaa ccclpaa pondodi triompOQVE- KAVA- LED. PRAEDAD. POPLOM. romanom. donauet. captives paper incendiary
He will lead. before who first of all Confol. of (icelEt s. . clafequc; . CARTACINIEN feom, enompauet earom. rerom. erco. . S. P. QR. to him column, p. . There is no barbarity in this ancient Latin language currL. exodic counting: just it clearly appears, while campaign C. , Duillij I'm in trouble on the contrary Carthage He brings back water-lilies to Sicily, and also spoils from win win the thing reported: how exadliflime, also, as to the ships
as well as money, gold, and silver will strike there, among the other figures of these millenarians no- this d It occurs three times I am with which number he was crushed But the origin of this note is obscure v ftoria see refined tthen vivigife femel repeats this no- fpoii c. so cccbaa 6c since she It happened to Catthi, here in: ai ductus gives the number of now giucnfes
Xrej re, copper, weight: I happened to use it fosp D. Duillij contru. Carthaginenfes anno conditje Note in this place the other miHenarijno- so fupradidrm a. whose half D quingentenarij note: therefore the marks of this man multiplied in value al- three circumscribed circle, this agreement,
they indicated, and it was the same as that of cci33. this again. in three circles
that is 'i so indeed. vc three notee c c c dniftris, to the right, in another y with
which was in the place of the diameter, it burst into the Sphere triarmiila- the thing transformed it would seem that of these were half fi they would like to pretend this time half-figures ban:
Note half of which AND) that eJfcTiao. sound Ztb emba
Gruterus mentions these characters in fu inference bui, the first of which has a cat like this: T. PRaEfNTIVS Cj. F. P. HELVITVS; BC FOR HONOR ON THE WAY. Hi
etc. w The other fiction f? has
TREBONIA OLIVIA AREiTR. MARCUS A NI M. A. IN FRO P. XII, in P. P. X II X C. OST. it is qoo fell The same thing CCIDD The same that n half- chiliadnm invent It is found others known in the ancient mfctiptiombus, fiction formed by which fignificafles sing from this in ition
IMP. : CvES. . AVREU VAL. DIOCLET
IMP. VIII. COS. Some would like to point to this as a quadratic twin: who, however, will consider more carefully the given figure
not at all he will be forced to bring the double figure fcd duplication X is drawn from the diagonal of the square ftdione: When v. really so two donor they are confounded whom
True, vth. ucufque dida vnaSynopfr you look at
From that comes the device of numerical characters, which to the old Romans I was a vfu so much so clearly open bit, yt does not even need polishing. Notes hasmumericasj from various, Prifcorum. reminder. of the mind, we have collected, which Sc in the valley
fyilogifmM of all the numbers that are millennial Ennead they are competent
Vrfi Another monument is considered apu sam? and that is all I have left of this subject tiara you The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. tc$ they smoke it, the truth of the numbers a genuine vutattm oitcndit to the ancients, vt is made.
(third. They said otherwise fedecie (eflertiurn
million denarii At the same time jcfo leldertia.
thousand denarii. Otherwise
thousand ams, or m. Aflesvel cetu denarij
hundredths hundred Aiies, or ten denarij. denarij or dccufles.
When you cry or cry. ccbo
alas! i oo feverishness
denarii. other feverishness. 5 thousand ris, vei Jel nose otherwise d feffen. fifty d narij
quTculfis or quinarius) jScmis feu vnciar The Origin Fabrication of Numbers.
This most ancient bronze tablet was first Fulius Vrfinus covered with numbers, names, ipfi make bulls of imprefile silver, and easily of false pa- tet.
which number a hundred thousand glasses of rum I would pretend Here's the book is considered the first note fiction figured in which thousand thousands, that is They said see a million although: Why. but in this note between the two on both sides ftipata fitimonadicis known) it is, that per vinitatemdineola established, millennial indica- rent according to the manner of the Greeks, but per millenary cat from it will take place, because it is a foolish thing: hence this name rum thousands, thousands, through the fuprapofitami double They expressed a certain competence in the tribune
fxi. . Now in the middle Table: Column of the chest numbered ri millenari) are presented to
vti to the eye openly, from the true side finiftro, contains the value of a penny rum reduced to feftertia, 8c on the right side penny rum and fefterti prolation is presented. From these, therefore, more fufus, than it was equal, pro- latis, father, that when great numbers a hundred glasses
thousands were marked, the limits of the clay; pundits they were distinguished by these: : of which this is an example from Pliny 33. C. 4. AuriiXVU. what number Budaeus about Alie, the fic emphasizes Sit down one hundred and twenty thousands reaching out twenty no uem, fic is marked with cyphers. Pliny go- rum d. c. refers to this number: - cLv7m paf it was y which I did we express a hundred and fifty times fe- He refused How you don't care mere glasses one hundred thousand lia difponcT io The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. hundreds of thousands pafluum, zvphris fic is marked:
From which it is clear, the old number vltrau a hundred miles running with a line of red hair stretched out fed at the end of the lyre part of the furfum and from this IXI
a million's note is clear. But this time already you're out of breath
to the other of doubt step forward the wall, which is of cypress originally
Capt IV. The Algorithm. Of the cyphers, let the present day be the number of those who are alive originally Qdfabrica
Ra. mifTis of the early Latins known Arithmetic now to those marks of numbers which you cite want go vocant, a plcrifquc Arithmetic Algorithm di- it is cited, and almost every man of the modern world day we will proceed to explain
Since ha: c The best part of this diatribe may rightly be called anger qi and that which it can be done, dibgentia, and how much ingtnij weakness to us will allow pass through it will be given And from I will order the matter, Let the Lcdtor know, erach matias, in the opinion of all the Authors, Fhilofophi. r Arithmetic: I am devoted to the former, her Enter part uninhabited, which today they call Indoftan
whose habits, manners, and disciplines he will describe in an elegant manner Herophatratus in the life of Apollonius Thy before. These with neighbors they shine EflTent Arabia; happy Arab residents through the East Erythrae of lxiaris the beach diftcnfis, frequent olympus yours ijs to care for each other
frequent mutual and also glass back and forth those who come business Contraxifienr Y this, indeed, of compensation for sale Cjue trade of things at the end of the numbers transfixed daughter-in-law he wants, the Arabs were known in great numbers
who- the Arabs n t. the Brahmins are like mysterious numbers known vte- mtrorV'V they were admonishing the summation, that is, the fuccelfu of time they made a fiji; so I read with Abenragel the Arab, do introduction to Aftronomy in the book, where I speak about Cypress
And two numbers are Indian numbers, d Srachmanu IndU The wise man made a design of the circle of the foetus. How come It could only be done after a long time and a lot of thought. matter, at last I fell upon the Arabic Book, which They call Margarita, the corrupted Margarita
where the Author, with the Aihological fignis he speaks, ftatim said cha- ra&eres sets, fabric from the same around dcfcriptam this only do cet. first Origin Fabrication Numbers First of all I learned about the Wise Men the mystical veil of the whole Aitro logical foundation four they divided the parties, and from this, and li- teras numbers some myfti they formed a body, the first of which return the diameter A B, the other pro- He expressed the lyre E
Then fACDl From the corner, fire qua- J ACE dragging t B(. D
JBCE They were forming a semicircular la-jADB terali 1AEB r liter ace EAD
And from here she was born the fuifle zyphras- nouem, to whom pofled Arabs are femper vfi: viz I believe they marked the diameter Through the semicircle lines ABCD Through the semicircle EAD Through the semicircle ADB with an attached bow They were fighting Through the circle of ipfum Come on
By Origin Fabrication of Numerofum.
Through the corner ACD1 BCD Through this figure H with a bow
who please Enter the imaginary charadercs they divide the claflcs, whom myAios (Ucbanium Arabici, ideft, fpi- they say rituals: who in the three worlds To be elementary
Dereo apply to Angelico thus the great myth of the fub on the other side, fuperflitiofiffime books are imagined. See where: Of the origin of this kind of figs we have given doTomo Oedipus, part i. fol. vbi&varijs reason with them hofce numbers from the wise men of the Indians proce! We often find it, but especially in III. I take a part of the symbolical letters of the Brahmins. Therefore, after these things, we are now sorry for Rhombus Zyphras, therefore, the Arab, who them t. h Harupb elHend that is, they call the Indian letters, from the Indians I cried out, I did not tell the Arabs, there, we shall see if we wish: and in what year this transfer It becomes a fada;
when then, nevertheless, the conies it happened closely followed by Mahomet, than Hegira, Mabumed they call it, about years from the time of Mohammed from Christ But when he was born in in the tunnel of which years, the Arabs next to the Saracen Hiftoria, the whole of it was Perfixed, car Note? name Aritu's rays from the Indians piocelliut ma- When in so that
The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. mania: And India and the shores of the Empire they were fleeing, anger—
from the Indians and the tribes of the surrounding regions trade leu lyphras, first introduced dasfuifie, indeed we think not abfimil: qua: poftta through Egypt, Libya, ca: terafquc Africa: Regions spread to the Western Ocean, between Ara- the beasts did not flourish at any time: until break-in? into Greece and Hifpania, within their own borders to be contained in the nephews: , at last to be delivered to the nations not Europe: only, fed public to the whole world fairy sisters are What I found out sooner, you will say both Greeks and Latins Arabicofque support I have brought gifts that are difficult, certainly none at all ha- rum brands anie anno to comperire vettigiunu it was allowed
So this is a little business deeper move mouse, it is, twofold among the Arabs arithmetic forms of tick marks vfitatas let it be
in which Alpha I bet letters in order I don't care Arabs as if to I am a certain Hebrew letters 8c order tahbus {e method are read; At the same time, I hate numbers how many or
a day lite- known, most Arabic writers, vtt Abenlina, Auer- of the Iraqis. " tis5 AbenrageI, Abenphragi, and other innumerable ones, vti Euclid translator
vfi are: wish- but to the rioris the promipheus of the cyphers when literal rum known vfos find jfed vt ha: c everything more clearly appear, hteras of the Arabic alphabet with zyj hris ap- I took the position Origin Fabrication of
Zyphrx. The numbers are strong fualcs
Liter# Ara- bica; . Numbers iualcSj, Hifcc letters all Arabs, Coptic: Chriftiani ah, you have been the maker of the PaflTim Codes already nis promifeue vtuntur, as theirs in Sa- The prefaces of the evos Codex show
They are still mine these vaftiflhma certain Aftrolabia. from the auricle. which; lol it's literally Ara- they are seen to be associated with bicycles, although all others Allio- the most ancient books of jiomicus, zyphru folitis. to calculate indeed I will find the wooden ones more suitable. But there is no other in this place the antiquity of these zyphrarunv to demote them among the Arabs, quit them fate eonllety fed queilion's pivot in this the best It is said that at what time was the first time in Greece in every {arn propagated in Furopa they have been, those which match it is skin
let us inquire with care, that for genius I don't know you by virtue, let us pray to God Among the Gracchus he was the first who will enumerate this The Origin Fabrication of Numbers
Maxinvjs Se{Krc in fua, :quamedidjr, Arithmetica vfus crt. Maxi- Eph inside Planudes
cuijis, ' the book of the year in the Library by numbers Vatican, fub ancient The form of the code is contained, where he calls these notes zyphras by the Indians he answered brightly The title of the book is:
4Mollia. bcTtif pfT AAat w MYiroj tett( y tfcfi Vi inside
Sapientifsimt Pbdofopboct Monks, Lord Ala xinu Planudis calculated the fertile Indians, fic said by Aftronomis fapientifstmis
what great care The infubfidium of numbers is easily invented I am together btc nouemfcbemata. I pray
We said, the first among the Greeks, as far as we could blow
The famous name of the Great Plain demfuifle, who fuam Arithmetic here 2yphraruttL he defcripferit with his acquaintances, when before him neither Pfcllus, nor Full thon. , neither Ptolemy, nor Diaphantus, nor others and the works of Arithmetics and Aftronomics were more silent heretofore they may be found adorned with notes. Since indeed pious some of them are naked the works of Michael Palsologus tis bequeathed to the Emperor infcripfiflc, I go out with a clear lanc the time in which he lived, and Leo was uneducated Allatius found the fuifle about the year hiflo The Origin Fabrication of Numbers; jia: both the Greeks and the Latins meet
that year fubdutfii from the prefect of the course of the year
they leave years ago he lived. Since, therefore, no one was famous before him, I became
Arithmeticus, fiue Aftronumus, this genus of characters the vfus is made, the plane is first revealed to the fufle, who ha(ce notes As for the calculations to complete as soon as possible, or jpfo when he was doing it, he spread it out, that is to say, at the time when declining gradually the Monarchy of the Greeks, the Saracens 6c You of guilt, which given door vti into others
so in of Greece And they invaded the maritime provinces under Bazcere Qua: Scaliger proves it with a calculation, here vti curious The dung was the investigator of this matter, so also of this one the truth tem in the explanation of the Flame Coin, alijfqueepi- ftolis fuis epiphtomaticis fcite fan etioluit j year indeed by which Scaliger hare fcfipfit
it was. who fubduotus Temperius Palseologi years, leaves whom Scaliger ptaeterpropter says the year coward, where ha: the marks were first transferred from the Mauris to the Hippanos; In order that the truth of the matter may be more clearly revealed, here the words of Sca- I brought the light to be attached, who in a certain diaper to Mar- given to Frehcrum a coin Confla nt in i Great fibi He explains that he was offered, and was inspired by the prayers of many
to these in the words: A huge silver coin of the illustrious man A4ar scaliger Frehert's guard, how fresh it becomes, the argument rages cba raEteres Arithmetic
before three hundred ConiUnt or a little more years ah the Arabs transfer to us
in the first place they were unlike those we know today, poEled me The walls of the great-grandfathers were interpolated in this way
therefore the money here or e. g I do not do that, where ij d Cbriflianis received furtt, fed that with which he was interpolated, boc ejl, the memory of the ptoaus proptered cm I say dGracis yfurpati fint
many aftronomic books do Logistic ft) of calculations A little ecdefiaftricum before or poH euerfion mperij The people of Inopolitan are confounded collected, the numbers of all of which not twice to foreign charaElers they are conceived, fed letters Cfracis. Finally, those characters are the first of all Cbri Htanorum Hijfani d Alauris t left by H ijpani The Latins The Chriftians received from them (Jraci, become med they received ft) indeed we grant I received
but he with the Gracchus yvt were never known to the yulgo needed them in to mint a coin, that is, only a few would be understood
You are therefore fuses indeed the very last coin with jlaturameffe but the forms included beteres efe y q) from some rush book, or a picture Ecclefia someone's de- fumes, of which we see many in gems today no indeed, concealment fed the oldest argument
x therefore, with the notes of the cyphers, in the portico of the coin face
he collects the inferences, that in the time of Gonftantinus the Great not at all a fuifle, i. e. the times of lust, now di- to the gods of Cyphris common to all Chriftians conference I was accepted. .. And in a certain epiphtole to Albcr pi he exprefle says, fe difculTis to all the ancient Ma- in the night, never hafce zyphrarum notes an- you Check out the above. With truth Scaliger here the time of the year, 6c on which occasion he zyphrx first Let them know the Europx, he will not determine precisely, nottra- rurn The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. we smoke the rum of the effete parties, a business known to few You are Aflronomic Chronology, by what can be done
if god, and to find out how much it was allowed exa& to denominate
Annofalutis nollrae Prince Alphonsus with the letters, and the most important of the Philronoinics di- of the disciples, to which nature has taken? certain weights was carried, love-fhmulat, vti I am incredible in them He had done it more slowly, so also the hearts of all I was drawn to the surprise: lnterim confluences to eutib like an oracle everywhere and everywhere Ailronomis Mathematically, since it has been many years since the faith movements from the time of Ptolemy to him dierru interrupted, and fled to the town, then through le iplum
then, having been informed by others of the facts, he recognizes the errors
intent applies to the mind: as if weighing them, you hit them about the remedy he deliberated by using them: he had given the fumes Africa Altrologos, as well Arabs
then the Jews flourished, who corrected Himself of faith movements they would polify the rakes; as already conceived he would bring out troubles in his mind; as many as he time Aflroromica with great fame and fame in the flower rent, it cost enormous sums, whom among fuilfc, - they are called, as in the Aftronomica Hifloria Chriitmann through it is given
5e Augufl: Riccius in. prarfadone in Almage Ptolemy's line is advanced; Alfarabius
among others fnneeps lfaac Hazan Synagogue of Toledo: Singer He- b rare fever by which Zyphrje mo- last week swarm in Europe from wide fmit Alphonsus King Atfro oomiam jn- I am glad Table ilronormcs Arab no isz Hebmoiiim m Africa. Gold lips tip Des. crl. epres euoca ttiir in Hiipamam The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. brxusj Who all brought faeces Aftronoraicarurn Ta- bularuni codes they made a start r whose works are famous mum that work, which they call Tabulas-Alphon linas
first brought to light, so many with everyone overestimation you as from him King A! Pomphus immortal to be known I was He has acquired glory not undeservedly
of the wise title having obtained from the peilers. . And the fy- ncdi occafione Arithmetic cyphras, to which, the Arab They were shaking the tables and each one already before some of Hi- {breads of Aphltonomies Mathematicas by Mauris and- they took: first in the Latin Tables almost all of the Aftronomics were introduced I returned they met the robbers when before the publication of these Ta- no bulls y of the Latins, known; Tabulx confcriptx rep Time
But the time in which the King Alphonfus this work choauit, Mariana tefte, fuiffe is said year polt Chri- fate at the bottom of Hifpah ipfe the governacles of the Kingdom, in the light, published Chronicum Ailronomtcum Patris loannis Riccioli quickly stumbles upon the Queis and the Arab. HiiLor here con- they are calling. . Therefore, the work is truly royal A thousand gold coins are said to have been spent
vti novelty? KcAipho He greatly cheered the hearts of all the Latins lit up
fo in Aftro from the novelty of the work, the reputation of the work has been repeated over and over again? iaurattone She made a furore that grew stronger vt oea- cxpenfi
then ge qQjfpi would say to whom the store opens for conveyance
with The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. granted: And so within a few years they multiplied already in Manuscripts (Typography, of course had not yet been found, fed in the year Mainz; first mum was known through John Faultus Orbi)
vt rou. T ha; a note of numbers; and then to fcribendum easy limje, and apt to calculate: from all ac- seized, not to the private while) fed public when they were converted to good
From the year therefore in cypher; Arithmetic; to us translated; they go they flowed to an- whether i5o5 $caligeria; the year to the year indeed of the year And how many writers
hence in years they made mention of them) of them to Hi- fpanos or Gratcos transfer enter
years ago: from Planudis Arithmetic is clear, as we have said above, next to this cypher rum notes, in Under the reign of Micaiah le Palsologos was published, from here on in the years And that's it, everyone f: re conf ntiunt
Sca- liger, whose words we have quoted above, a fua auate trecen- it has been crushed for so many years, rus Hermannus Hugo that in those whom Fax Aitiurn he calls, bringing books This is the origin of smiting
Arithmetic- rum not t to whom we are today vexed, three hundred years ago about an to hold us only to ourselves from the Arabs, tsr Hijiani who- the first time them they received d Aiauris, and finally the Latins all from H i (fans Matthew did not deny them Aias in the Book of the Reda of Counting reason The theater
Inerf. V. The Origin Fabrication of Numbers life? Human Tome No. fol. Vcu quas we call them zybras, they are more recent than some get out the sea was pojfent, d Mauris was first introduced into communicates from hts foreign European Provinces Certainly first communicated by Maurice or if ollendunt r qus a Latinis in. the beasts were not carried away by any means
Zyphrae Barbarica z) A Where do you see the barbaric vnirate e(Te him
I hold the same as the barbaric w, no other in- third time difference the snow that htec like the Arabs vfitato, fitinuerla Latina fic lines some pro- two days
how dead is the Arab in this way, which is ternary: La- tinae refpondet Latino in this manner nor a quinary Arab d washed by Latin nothing like that he becomes dull and inert, vr g.
Senarius Larinoruiru, to atTUifluTi agrees with the Arabic r nifi that here inactive It happens that you see an Arab here too (heptean inerfa just becomes
of the Latins Odonarius indeed Arab, most of all differs from the Latins rio, which is why it becomes a fad, not at all by conjuring explain when it is still, the forfan once tricked the feptenario V from the union of which the infrascript was obtained line odor of things
Odfonarius X I am not a relative tk into this vfquej day at Coptic in vfu cf True as the Arabs they boasted of savings bc easily through (eptenarij, notairu. inerfb mode expreffamocionariuin po- they protect. The nineteen-year-old, however, agrees with the Arabs in this way broad norum nouenario, vt hardly acknowledge the difference. deny than the Egyptians) than the Arabs per pundtum The Latins through circel lumvulg6 zjro vocant v however at Planudenu. this figure fub I also exclaim in the form of a circle Xeperian vt therefore hafcejt some difference it is not surprising that the characters are unintelligible when in a way
buy various things on this day and night mouse but you will see the continuation of these numbers in the pinace fuprapofito
who knows refpondent, before years Iru You will find England, I differ somewhat from the modern ones I answer, these notes do not speak r vtin fcholis r, I would like to make a specific difference, fed up with ho- diernis eafdem effe, for b is the same ell as From the same with twisted
becomes: the difference occurs only in, whose account of the matter We don't want to burn out so or common wild-- of the betius r or of the Scribe in part! you are fic of the willing to be brought to Turin eff the thinnest when and today anger They are expressed in different ways by different people
vt not a little fce between 5c vulgata not; s difference is found
But as larger ones telfirnonis ffabibanturv listen Origin Fabrication of Numbers. let us hear; Peter who Book IV Scho'amnt of mathematics, leaf who hitherto de Barba- They are known as riches a certain nor not impressive atteftation He confirms with these words the shoulder feunot t which is here decribuntu r fresh funtyhu for Euclid never Theon they are
Tidicomachus said, Number ri fgnifcaticnem spring Units ife nsfi and therefore the most complicated
Gracchus, on the other hand, was a liter w rodh gy conflict of men: vt
IC K quo Qyc. fgnifcantur Finally at the beteres I could not identify any of these characters
I C'rcAlij report, dd? The Phoenician inventors of Arithmetic are precisely the same com account of goods
foannes d S acrcbcf co cuiusfepulchrum efl Lutetice in Ccmitio Aiaturinenf, refers to the Arabs
#cc opinion foreign efl When the Arabs they could, indeed, they could not even ask for discipline to wash. and many of them were killed there are m Philosopher pie Aledicina, Alathimatica from which Algonthmus pro Arithmetic, Almagefum for the great Syntax
The article was sent to the Arabs, aySpoc is the number of grace
[itrov the greatest: p e rmiflis therefore from the Arabic g Gracchus ccabulisifaffafmt names Algorithm, Almage- Cormrcnfa-fhu. But whosoever he may be I find ten characters
um. ZUhra deserved the big one
in Latin, r. tce gy hehraice published is evident and all today h. t they are known as Zyphra
to express. This is a branch
Whence I give a note sacred Sacrobcfco, of which Ramus mentions, first a coward who books in France I was He has learned so far: because it will be said This is confirmed by the same LucasGauricus in Oration- Lucas not one of the praises of Altronomix Ferrari: lived
less nclis they profited by inferring Arabs with the majority recutitis Sabbatarijs
who Juas to they led us to find them most of whom in H ifpa nia Alphonfo %ggi auxiliaries
in Ajlonomy blow up Give the outstretched hands of Omar, Haly, Abenragel, cfe ber H ifpalenfis, Iacutus r Calo Calonymus other than the most Peter Nonius in the preface to Spharram loannis pemis from Sacrobofco, brought to the West by the Arabs transfer in harm's way
wide, confirms with these words: For' incuit the Arabs They inaugurate the great pofefsion brought by the Graces
however: their captures they offer Curvfam Reason not so laboraffe in obferuandts motions, than in the divine by numbers of whom they were so fond they were
Arabic m he hints very true far away for so much here is the cypher in- numbers laniiunt, vtnullamtfme hifce deliberation snort no Aftrologic genetic no apothe lfina The Origin Fabrication of Numbers. lefma, or prophylactic at the end they are founded. Who when in the Cabala Saraccnica Scci ndo Tomo Oedipus, in We handed down the Hieroglyphic magic to Le&orcnu we let go
Finally, in this place, Coronides IC while the testimony of P. Riccioli
who in practice I didn't know I was Almagefti, weighing things much more carefully
fiction he said: When the Table of fuccejju temporis manifefte a They would go astray, Albategnius, the ninth son of Chrifli
i. Azophis i. Arael C eber H ijpalenfes
nor even Perfarum Alathematici Tybennenjes de Atotis CoeleJH- they thought of playing the game already Ccpta d Muslims. . Alexandi t. t, to the Arabs Aflroncmia nyeluti captive ia. tn she had been abducted by another Jews and Arabs are not less the erflation of the Cabal or Aftrological delirium by Jider's movements are unstable
than of the movements of heaven x of they were fighting: From this colluvie Alfcnfas Tables Ah phonfnas mjsit conflrui, and published in the year
fid reno uatas ad Albategnq published the norm again in the year
in the year Spluramfuam de Sacrobofco Parisijs vul- he rejoiced And here they are, which is known about the origin of the cyphers indeed for the dignity of the led for the narrowness of time
I was led to be led; I admit, however, to the exadarn of the didor riratcrn demonftrandam, inrer a few, whom I ron I gave him many copies four hundred others an- if they are older, they will be conniving
ARIT- ARITHMOLOGY part On the mysteries of certain numbers whom they call Pronici, properly by touch
it blows to the secret of certain properties of the same ca- let's remind you
In fact, it is human in I was compared to genius, that is, I was a rare man exotic come on in mathematics, with natural manure disciples yes Let them discover him, unaware of the eaujas, immediately in admission the reason of the rapture, I do not know what is divine, GVvecj 'In order to work effective, firm fibi let them be deceived by faith
I got better mumin of wonderful numbers, whom I preach they call, for the prietates zfu rvemt: H cvs for the Orientis rPhilcfophus then Arabs, then Chaldeans, with the Hebrew Adekubalim warn, and I do not know what prodigies operations, as well the artifice of the same dijfofition, then collethon all in one and the same smoke rverfks Of the hidden Numbers fiaBa fulolfecifient with astonishment stunned, wild nonpofifey without any wonder, and to the Geniuses of the world attracting Was I right? ijs delitejcerct, for excessive credulity certainly they had Whence did he find that from fe pure fncer? any apodictic ratios in Arithmetic (tfi Geo metrics based on reBe would have, to impious fuperslations they would draw) while the numbers of this kind of figurtfique efficiency natural whose, of all the Philosophers they will become
become experienced: they are made to attribute: fed ft) human gene ris hofhs comtfcens their fe operations, it does not fail wonderful of this kind effeBus futili fupe rftitions vela- to cover the chin, and how to escape
m amulets periamrnata to be formed, junBifque ijs barbarians nothing figurative terms The world's most famous Genius Planet impiously to be made, but to no other end snow vt I am fascinated by this networked trade
into traps I will be with you loss of happiness. traherel
therefore each huiufimodifiibt caueat, in this fertile part, strength pro- properties of some numbers
Geometrical luxuries We will explain the laws in this way, vt ft) Mathematics system ijs
virtus dia per how of this kind numbers effectively r impious unwary they were believed to work by perfuming mortals more clearly to caution would be noted
C Pronic properties.
had the most mysterious secrets, dedicated to the capitals of the gods, it is certain such as there were numbers, to whom Dijs was dedicated, or whom vfus they have had, we will demonstrate Of these I will write Abenuafchia. of worship ptiorum; They remembered Pbdofopbi Aegy- ptij, that they were ipfis feptem numbers in large finally reason
whom ft. ) They were making their
We have numbers, now that miller let the fub ipfis be hidden see mouse It should therefore be noted between do not love Egypt the disciples of the Pythagoreans, the mysteries of certain numbers difpofitionesdidiciile, to which only they gave there is nothing in the nature of the world rent. And the vanity indeed, all in number, the parent only, not to the other they say a thousand, by the fact that in faith
Of hidden numbers ro contingit) the same femer it is, of course I was daughter whence the tone of the body of the King Dommumcjue aftionurru of the world, and ipfam things omnrurn not afraid First, they said indeed, of numbers from doubles vmtate prognatum, that is y y opinion change host
He never moved call all the other numbers run other things names calling And they struck the squares with the first) the sum total of all things ene of the world make a plan explaining But Eli square number a country that was born from a root in the faith produced And as from Let's start with the tate, she is indivisible, anger innumerable able, but not so useless
i. e. that I left numbers matter it does not praftet ipfa, when it becomes rr ater the principle of numbers another in faith, femper diub And what do they accomplish, fola vriitas in fe dudta, femper fe
He shook his head in vain, all the same, subject to no one, I was the sapling and root of the variety, It is a square and a cube that which one of God's O. M. immortal nature such all divergent experience of alteration {at verifies that foladiuerfite in conjectures by exifing unity with numbers As, therefore, from One of the most important architedouic monads of the world everything emanated y fic number order from that vmrate profile of the people, not here, fed there, where he is, whom she brings, it was fitting to be installed
It should be known it is that two femper figs They have a proportional intermediate
so two cubes Pronic properties.
e. g. become are drawn in fe, a square is made fi in- cube will be made likewise fi n they are led, nafccntur himself again fi in p, cube then be two are drawn in the mean of the squares Se is created proportionally; this padto, are im. in proportion to each other; for the fig tree has to so to If I take the z root again in the middle pro- portional, into this same you will draw the root
Se that is, two and a half proportional between two cubes each for in the same they are continuous proportion on the other hand This is the same thing you will find in vanity the same power as the numbers having nicata. for this reason in faith, although (em- by means it is completely the same, but compare it with numbers" those whom he begat, the same ivy reason is to be trusted
therefore having a side force in fe is drawn, one thing having the force of the square will be produced; become a force again side having in the power of the square is drawn
cubic he will obtain the teftate Sipoftea having x power side I will go
the side is drawn, the middle will be proportional; but from binary having the power of the square is produced, for in double proportion If again, the first force is on the side having then side in binary medium qua- of wires is drawn proportionally, Se cubed power they will get it, itself cubes more proportional gene run away for there are in continuous double proportion tion
If again 2de has vt side leu root, then-? if these be drawn into a proportional mean, they will produce they will be Square rum number dew tires Of hidden numbers therefore they go between i, which has lc, ie a cube, between another cube, proportional means, vtfequt
Vniras reason Therefore, all of us have this desire desires roots even square
ti cubes because of the squares, and each cube folding the external God {iiict
they applied to the Pythagoreans, and it was who was the first square, cube Diuinx naturx
The second square was a quaternary a dyad produced in faith by the duda, whom the materials aflimated imperfect potential attitude abyflo fub merfe The third square p. from the ternary in I believe They dedicated a large number to Saturn. The fourth qua- wire T from the quaternary multiplied by fe catfuumeri Scabant loui The fifth square, from the pentade who? in fe multiplied produdum Tuesday, the sixth quarter then ex. fenario in faith multiplying prodigal, of the Sun
The seventh square from the feptenary I lead the faith emanating, Venus. Odtauum square from Odona- rio in fe dudo proceeding, Mercury. The ninth square from the ninth in le dudo coming out they dedicated a number to Lunx i cubes in the same order with which the squares were left to the Gods, the Elementaries Geniuses They said that they were hungry it will be said And from hifce nouenn squared off, the first two squares from the of dyad emanating from them; of monads indeed a square, indeed rubbish all humans are limited tis understood the goals of the farthest j dyads indeed square because of the hnperfedion of the matrix, which in- he wanted but the rest I made a square bed finish Pronicor prop rietati'.
first the square of the binaries is j, of three in faith emanating from Dudis, they called Saturn, this Dudi reason lest, because of how much I have deceived the Gods before fignano Sc Monadi fummar, fiue fupramundana: , vici- they will eat more they would be fimplicicres, little by little in they would merge a multitude of material things how much In fact, they are more remote from the monad, so much so more material fcella; they would participate vt therefore no Monday by reason square between them, which roots within a penny confections emerge, the greatest to dedicate pu- tarim
to admire one property in another: other di- property They would notice the lack of clay they were born without God's fire and incomprehensible fub ijs I understood to present mystories to a human being, and so much so the order of the worlds administratio- God om2- nem, economiamfub ijs to need will. rerru I declare by example. If one confufastypographical literature c He will confide in the forms of rum, he will tame them all; fcien let them contain what is imaginable within them He does not say, however, with which: it is done, quanrdefiderat, Jk fub: by what combination y expert, however, soon forms thus to combine he knew, vt at last whatever he willed, indeed fcientiarmTU the falsehood of the same through the fenfus appropriated which- Not abfimili ratio squareiiquidam myiterio- I'm sorry are given, fed fub: ercis: numeroru n forms the conspirators inyfkria vt let them hide, he will go necefle and they will soon Of hidden numbers soon where in as many fields as there are square eiufderrL contains monads, put the numbers in order appropriately ar- tifically skilled Arithmetician quilpiam he died
de- hence the measure also, and within the square fields We'll open up the account for you to spread- Capt II. Of thousands of such numbers
Therefore, from the old ones, the squares were divided in that order digelfos difponed, vt. ri within the chests of difpofiti they would gather together, femper one the same number would emerge, of all of whom then fumma fuurn would also have myftery
They were called that brick of the Gods, as they said, of the immortals. that They had a wonderful reason for their mastery and went everything could be expressed
When therefore the 5th square of the first Saturn, which they appealed to the minds of the whole world, they wanted to paint the numbers of this within the nine squares by that artifice diff they put create rows of numbers
normal tranfuern, diagonals, fimul jundi, one and the same they would merely re-interpret, as it were done. .I tSigdhm- Saturn; formal 'Transferfa- Diagonal additional
You see, therefore, that no matter how the numbers are fudged, always redeem. All. au te mi' numeri firnul fum- they contain pti And this I will do with a little care; away nualchia alluded to) when he said that it was dedicated to Saturn Ternary for-canftituant-squares the root of the feu side, ipfum square
CQnftijtuunt, who is regarded as a number be a three sided square you in You will lead the lamp of the order of molds
At- From this it is clear why Abuhali Arabs in fua A(lronomi, He will say, Saturn, the three powers kingdoms most important given, each one of these other principals straws twice altjs; the truth of all
he has others Summa om- niumfunt 'For the name Zahel, that is Saturn fly
But let us proceed to the making of the square chematif fiue the Seal of Louis, which cx quaternary ia fo it emerges, and it is i whose god (satisfaction is such cf. the number of figures: the ranks normal fiue perpen- diculares, tranfuerfi, fiue diagonals diametrical
vti 8c quad ratularum. the middle of the surrounding numbers
mul jundti, lemper, let the same number see although fumma. which number it is held cx dudtu; side in One seal is made with the addition of numbers
The seal of Louis. . Addition by— Tranfuerfalis Diago- 'perpendicular. -
The same yaeeigrgiftJjHbiejQS quidratprum, cjuae ipcdiuiru eucumfifluiK, Inc i ui I lost e: obstulqiiluin p? i
orro numbers within two fields. nppafitJasL. diago- finally (it is added, the same femper pumefuni they go, as in
medij duputi femper eundem. , they will give the number, namely dptuli juclrn umeris in bjnis qnadratulis medi s $faylv4 iii broken vjn m i-2i) D fi inn
nperxundumnumerum, conftjtuuntj vt: you see; which almost deservedly racTor, and fumma dig with wonder to be seen: potpil.
I come to the square on Tuesday i j. which number Because vigjnti qpinqueaarcol a little poles C(ndo, the same as juiofes: obtinej prpprfejatem oti. fwfty
mouth the mouth is broken, in which linguli in any way of all crt which number rcfultat from the multiplication of the side be f.
The seal the square of the Sun fenario ft. dudlo What do you think?
Solis is produced in mt-, If the remaining numbers of the town are Myltenoios r. s G EEALOG IA Count of the Tufculans one when the genealogy of the Counts Signs:
continued in the mind of Fran cifci Zazarx Marcus Dionyfius, Condelonj another and among the genealogists
From which is clear the Genealogy of S. Fuftachij in Ter he was a Roman senator Father St. Placidus disciples S. lienedicfli first in Cornices f ufeu wool removed, and finally in Counting Signs: Anagnia Valmontoni Poles, a tripartite branch cransfufam to read on that day
Here is a table Branch Il. Comitnm Poli Val a mountain leading from Paulus. floated to Leclore
A Tertullus family Odauio-Euft. through lustful I was propagated. it was first to Greg. Com. Conf. Rome then to Froloir. ium II. Shine to Theodore Deoda- then children from this to Albericum, from Alb. to Be- don't with which the texero begins fum Genealogy Co- gentle, Marcus Dionysius as it is done
pull Pope JOHN No. XII Why? , or OtcojDom. Poles, from which White? Prince Rom. tk Praef. Vrbis.
to whom m onium reached give Hugh Reg Lombard daughter and this BENEPICTVS Head Tufcul family Rom Pnnnpum powers, sn. from this
chosen years old goods Baron Lambert with fra- they drive out three Bridge. John VIII
Control Rom. What ipf pretend bant m CaroIum-,
Callus conculidec Deodatus Com Tulc. a by which Gregory Com. Tufc. Aubrey At first. Rom. Com. Tufc. John Min- cius Antipope Bened's brother
Berardus Dom Poli Odd Oddo, quo Gregory from this Theophyla dus, pull a, BENED-IX
I'm going to go Card. Fub Pafchal
John Card. fub Adrian
Odd this Conftan tia wife loan Conti Ne- innoc son -Tlirafimundex cit the right of his wife Clarina
Aldobrandus Earl of Sora Signs. THE SERGEANT went
from fadion opposites twice repulse game, and finally the third time confirmed
Ciacc. in Vit. loan VIII. Bar. fig. from this JOHN XI. PP where Ciaccon Ioau. Xl. Ser- vt they say son-, R om. from Com. Tufc. q ui the same Then with "J Com. S fires
BLESSED VII. first Epifc. Sutrien- dispute pa rePau
he roared Etc. St. J Cruc. in leru I will cut it off
where (Jeupius. Gerard, a
by which Gregory Head I admit whether, from whom BLESSED polteaPapa VII. he did VIII ion the beginnings of Ord. Camald. JOHN we fear St. Hen- rico Imper. Ciacc. Plat. Baron pVbertus, ab this Bonifa Gives
cu, s Caixi. fub Com. de Cec- Aeon. I sing
Peter Dom. Anagn. from whom PetCard. fub V idlo re II.
Adenol phus Dom. of Ca from which dauanian po- lea Antip. Vidor IV difficult
Greg Dom. Poles PayerCard. loan Fub Jun. Paul, with Philip, from whom
Odauianus TCard fub HI. 'Odd. ' of Valmont Yes. ob. Rodus de Val mountain Lotharius, 1NNOC EN III. Com. Sorce Liu's wife Philip. Paparou Peter who attach out the tower of Rome generally of Conti
Paul Can. Jdenolphus Pe, rus Can. ifaXs. KhCtenfiS
I was Stephen Trai, the world. Paul de Valmontone from which V riofus
J perrus f aulus Ep r Aliruda J Tnpol Ocebnda I Erancifca I Prince Laumia Antioch f auJus
nJ loan Can. NitolausCi Xheodora rSrephanus.
loan Dom. Nicholas hcaCard
Stephen Card fub Jnnoc III. roann CS Dom poli Com. Albr, fteodora
rar. Rom. his wife Condantia Ms Kom po-
injn n. m J i, ea igan nom
Trjdeniusa quo Branch I IX originated from Phipps f am forked Thrafimundus Rof I was from whom Guiliel mouse, from this Tho- madna Comitida, le- f pulta in SS-Vine. Anaft. Rem. Jugolinus po goddess GREG. IX Pope Philip where Pelagius Mon St. Ben- Gieg. X Peter Sen Rom Stephen's Matthias
Philippa wife loan content Rinaldus ALEX. IV. Pope Bartholomew jDom. from Genoa fkelena wife
loan Cadelli Io nnesDom j Gauignani. I Rinaldus [Rhodes. The greatest. Baldwin
He is strong: For the clay of numbers you will hit in what wire ritd difpofit, fimul Juncto, femper how- and when they are smoked, they make up the number of m. three months a little before the recenfitar, Archetypx, Genial, Se syderese smoke
smoke but he accomplishes all things which the number supports from the side for two days in where they are of the three worlds composition vltimurru complement. , Monarchy Solarium type exenv plar vnicura, vt. Seal of the Sun
in different ways. Of hidden numbers
What Sigii- The seal of the square of Friday from the feptenary in (from two innumerable eto Prodlt c u i s numbers properly within the square no matter how they are joined, always the same number rum, as before, make up, that is, indeed, to smoke of all makes Romance: Monarchy: iymbo-a light, whose type will be that which is made
ii. .OJ -Diag anal i in nn?
If- Signun} qudratiMeteurij ex o&onario in (from two therefore emerges the folly of whose number in order between, a square coadti digedique, quomodolibe. reatranfuers cbli- that the same number of times
deJicet: do. . fumma indeed, expresses everything Mercurial Monarchy. the type figure is made
frj QMd Sigfli Market to them. of numbers What are you staring at? Sigillmtt' of the Lunar square from p; t-in fe dufto nro- not led videfieet fcuius numeri enter square fuutn coardtati', and rightly difpofiti wife hit, number Then transfer, vines, diagonals, in any way additi fempr produce. indeed fumtna everywhere presents to you Lunar Monarchy? cypress vt ic- quits Capt III. De Mathemdtico fabrica& conBrucliomdiclorum u By the account of the seals. I want this business to be more secret
8c with surprise more dignified, so clear faster more complicated and complicated with merit cenferi must
Eph for it is so steep hidden nature of numbers almost all human to escape from the battle line can be seen
nothing is more worthy of mankind than I am, than in this way the winding labyrinth of hidden things induftriarrL. to put j dida but the secret of numbers dilpofitio, no least to and fro between things unaccelerated unknown obtain; smoke I lay down with care
arcanarm the difpofition of this kind, and the reason, how much in- genius strength would permit
to penetrate I would escape, rescued To the reader of curious things I hear
indeed at first odd of squares difpofition, then the amount of par is that easier, so to these elders
what are you helpless? problems suffer there. Of squares first, then of equal to the cubic pafiu we will reason
Sdua- Maps order moray eel leather Of hidden numbers; Why the first what a: us number
Squares confiruBioY from ternary in feipfum dutlo y ejiue the Seal of Saturn. We omit here the first square, from binary in {from the two emerging, apparently quaternary, vt can qpod with the nature of the remaining squares Sc property let the number of the veiled imperfect recede far, properly from I can hardly be called a square, and when I see no only from multiplication binary binary fed from the addition of binaries to binaries (which to no one to another of squares emerges, and thus potentially learn a mifcella of the material
deservedly Philophophis especially those who are not perfect snowmen. dedicated recovered was, and eliminated So back to square one ternary so difponcn while, vt strike the numbers together in any way The properties of the pros
let the first square be made a b c g e f h
I call the media another square a h d source are placed in the form of Rhoiribi, then between cell from s feu quadratula fmgula numbers in natural order a vm- tate vfque to so difpones, vt for rad. cts ternary. j on the basis of the clay, three cells obliquely
fire diagonal liter ddcendcnttbus three numbers in order from the natural they are put by beginning with the spirit, vt you see and they shall be found four numbers i, outside the square
but the square is divided into four cells it will be by numbers So you can put numbers outside the square on them transferring that you are so eloquent
column? af in the same column oppofitun void transfer place then extra conftituti numbers, as before, in opposites transfer co- lumnae h d, empty reciprocal places conference tur, as it appears from the following figure
Diffofition of numbers cells.
I say these numbers in order within the nine cells nouenarij square R S T V difpofitos to obtain this force, as qua- how come brought fibi inuiccm pinch pinches are added
Whose denaoDflration of the matter as you imbibe with a deeper spirit
It should be noted first that the square tiles im- in even numbers, to see Himself in this ternary square cf to be given threefold, terms bigger, smaller, me- For a long time there are greater limits, who wants the middle term whether or not at the end of the numbers square nouenarij are numbered: . Minors
terms that range from vanity to me- a day and a term are reckoned: the middle, but the third less is said who among the four minors Four of them mediates majors, , He withdrew from the half attacked from the addition of the smallest It is the most important emerging term, vt r gives the least term next to the greatest term p of which half cylinder
border in pjogreflioncj the middle, the middle between the cells of the square as is clear from the figure, 8e in this reading for graft.
And of this progress the minor to the major they have things as exalted to exceeding j by the amount of eniivu the elders increase from the middle, they decrease as much from the same minors Whence the first foundation equation emerges
It should be noted that the fruitful use of smaller terms los num aiiquenr refpicere from the greater terms, fime y which is the same, all numbers
who equally from the middle thrice less between each other dilpoliti reflect to the rich imon Do Otto Agapitus Sen. Rom. Ottolinus
later WLLUiuiua go fub Sen. Rom. you- at the time ex. III de- get wet it trembles ifc abundance
traftylon Eccl. S. Eupht. made it floating Coi$ of S. Euft here rchdto nomi nor Com. Tufc in desire me S. Eupht. j Sea from whose parentage he boasted Count It's okay. name oftauianus He wanted them.
deS, uftach. Peter Aloy: thistle$. yachts of which vi- Cencio imcraf
son Prologue about S. Eupht. from whom from Lawrence Mon. St. Ben of which in A r Chiuio Intera nothing new song lem to Cata-, dupas Velini yiesi cMraUis-
rTheobald. Latitude fottolV. ittul bridge man Caftel big car lorum pofteP- you don't know about that for
see Odtauius hiC things clean they are divorced Ord. Erance ungrafted the whole of life
clear, fepni you in the Chapel Altar of Heaven this Epn Matt J Eupht. M in that? Provinc. j Rn Inania dc qua-j
here vfquff zai a fcbiujnua from Genealogy flee to the lodge Aldobrandi no K Rugerius Adenolphus
Peter Pau Jus jAldui Hieronymus J Conflantia John. Bapt. Bei Nardina. Catherine Jerome I Maru poanne$
Bruno Ang. Fracifca James
Lucretia Thank James I J And reas, j Jacob Bemarduia Mary. Marianus
James A ato r j stove Let's go from BocJ Stephen.
wlacoma loans Franc. Card Anthony
Cachaina. Julius Julia Camillus raining J from this I was
wife rij Duke Sfor CFridericus Lxac. Hvppolica
Maria f James. J Mana
j March. L Euander, d Odauius Camillus! loans (Julia. Balthaflar Julia Saint John March. j Stephanie mc Lmaly
K Conilantii Lvxor.
wife of Charles Count Charles? Card
Clem. Vln Lotharius
in re Tarquiuu Sauelli Aldobrandi to them Ep. long
from lua Pauli III. P. "Torn down. " Mary. Apius where LTherefa. Oddo from the Society. Jesus Betardus
Carolus Vien. mort. Andrew Abbot Charles II modernusJ Leader
John Nicholas moder. Rom. Govt Innocent Julia the Nun Clarinet Maria Cecilia Maua Felix lofephus Twisted
Innocent aside one everyone today living from Tiflima D. Ilabella i The dumb ones fanulia Ducifla Poli, a woman heroic hero, nor not to all the virtues— decked out in kind, received, than God one with Excellent dung to the husband longx- those in compare years and "Andreas Ord. Franc. who ob- I wide from Bom- do iX-Car born re- it was bright, light Religion co held fflotix to LeSlor
with the fecundity of Marcus Dionysus; make a cup of coffee; that Zazara genealogical line return a S. huftachio ad pofteros to extend conflicted
Marcus Dionylius verd own Genealogy of the Family of the Counts relatives and degrees of affinity, in Ramos di(iributa, in this vfque He will endeavor to explain the spread of the day; and yet one in each case and the same elf and if you strike it, it does not make any difference; from those which; in- we have expounded the fruitful part of this will blow
A Tertullus Conf. Rom. whether
and to Fam. Euphtachios through intermediates lustful propagated in years it was to Gregory Conf. Rom. Com. Tufc. Prince-, potential, to do there
GREGORY Conf. Rom. Com begot I. i quo
Count of Tufculans Family St. Euflachii Odauia illirpe proftpia of origin from France Zara Arnoldo Vion Jib. plucked from the vine dijfqucauthoribus illuilrata Fol. pAdriannus S. fAdrianus R. E. Scrinia Com. Tuf. 9 Ptolemy II to whom Ludovicus Pius Imper. Bertha's daughter be in the mother's womb He gave a warning. J and one from Imper. Tufcul He is in charge. ca- put together you it was. from this to come out Theodore I who it is said J noble leader the mouse from which red topic pores the river from vxOte Mana Theodore Sergius better Theodore
R-E fSercitis C T II. in the year j Theodore
S. R. E. pnmi XO r G ratiarie Theophyla-
Com. Tylnitq dus S. K. E, to whom Leptip i Acolytus
men fuit. vrde w Pierleomafa thousand from con- I gave
like le- I'm sorry fam. it trus, fu- dinner Cem. Tufc. of by which a lot Leo Olfienf. a quo Theodora— wife of Perfidius cij library be tired Anaft Bibliot. Ceffor Lecdi ccretur John Gm T ufc. Baduarius Com, Tulc. Leader Conf. from whom ADRIAN Pope I of whom Anal. bibliography Hadrian You fculanenfis Pa pa I son Theodotus John II. Com. Tufc. a by which Euphemia xor C) pirni, cu i us d onation Mon. ift- S ra rm in Mon te C alma you want to throw a bow to fa dtam, vi- of Zazar.
Baldness Odauianus Conf. Rome C. T. whose xor Requested—. Senat. Rom. from which Reinerius C. of which in Arch. CafL pOdauianus Jen flow Stephanuccia Saracenus. Conf. Rom. from
Com, S. Eufl. fuel hands Ro- J Pharolphus Com. S. His Mary's wife Beloved Com. Sigmenfis then- C om. Signien fess cc. t. di- they are gods Aubrey Count S. Eu- ilach flofej hus ab l this
Stephanella. Theodatus Conf. Leader Early Albericus Albert
it is said, Mar chio conf Tufc. principal potent onion (we are going to the year
Blessed great Tufc Duke Com. at the time iW Vu Imp.
by which Aubrey M archio or folding they are able to escape purse in Pont raised Afapi and a grandson I was a Beiudi God's son from whom from Morocco Agapitus who it was ADRIAN Pope III an-
Sergeant poilea papa II. king twice and thirdly in the See of the Apostles confirmed Odauianus Qni poilea- it was JOHN Pope XII whether
the first whose name proper mu taut Erancus here the Earl in I memory S. Eu-
fiach Count from S. Eupht. no- wanted to threaten from whom Reineria
Stephanie; Albericus III C. T Confj whose yxor stephanie co lumnas Ec cL S. Euilac Kom. engi cu rauit, vt m fi- I don't want to write books we give JohnConf. Rom C T those Muslims from Italy say there Gregory from which Gregory veil St. Pal. John Mi- better anti- Pope Epifc. before Veletri Tulc. nut who can Ancienfis, i ilea Benedidi
How do you go? S. Euilachius Why Com. from which X name af lia fumfit. cande to p of your then he returned, through i told the joke ConffN dtis qui anno fMinutius. Aubrey Hugo CT. IOZ7- Theophda
BLESSED Deodatus who K who from Epifc. Lambertus' Sutncnfi ann. C. T. Coni. Pope VI, or di- so BLESSED VII. he did VIII. tojt. JOHN Pope
Pope BhNEDI- he was a teacher. Gregory Pllhericus V Imp. Paul ma Ptoloirecus Com. T. Conf. - Do good i'
by which Conf Rom "Ptolemy? II. C. T-Subla Dom. who poffea in vo He led the matter fi- lie Henry Imp. de- Magnif. Nupt. Rome has tarum see Pet. Days
Odauia's wife Leonardo Ma- lafpma Mar- Cbion Ligu things Odauianus! Gregory III C. T. iox8. from whose vxo re Sabuna- Sergius Epifc Nepeianus Reineria Bertha Stephanie. Agapitus, who died young lnriEmilia was terminated Peter C. return of all, which when he effec widow. pbano which was the first plant the house of Colonnenfi, who in the name of Agapito and because of the memory of Agapitis the children of S. tulf and for S. rtgapi- then France mart cunis Vr- He was twice possessed, then finally to contain- Major s fuos from Odauio-Eu- ifaehiaua domo procefliiTe
T. Conf. ("Gregory V. i Jmp Paul ma- Giilei Chapter IV poil whose death? family Com. gnienfium Ti- Tulum Com. Tufc. flow they bring See Zazaram
Gregory Com. Tuic. Padarus Rom. d with which he defended himself Who polish off lo Com. Tuf. Peter Odauianus he wanted to be called, because from He would come out immediately
Quilla the wife of Pandulph of who Com. of S Id. from whose family poilea S. Thomas de- Aquinas is said to have been born. Peter the Deacon Hift. CaiL Writer S. R. I. Sacellanus. N icolaus Abbot Caff an xS poilea because he is disabled. polished IPK
riches between fe, io accomplish v. t in this progression force is given
finally but the clay two opposite terms reflecting rustling o, as we have said, they are a long time the middle term But the middle term by the number of cells on the other side said square that is to say, multiplied by the ternary, it produces smoke. of the number of exiftents in each side. . From here, it is easy to see how, little by little, the ancients from this have come to the knowledge of this so wonderful, pro-. . For if in order a little before trines, ordinal according to the natural order of the decripler the wire {equentie abcd, four fpatias. leave blank Demonstration. tnr, since the numbers in the cells outside the square tl0dlCt0IU? then the same number, and the opposite terms the smallest term reflects the largest term),
indeed on the contrary in oppofitam cell before transfer business you have faith: for this reason v. major term the nut between and is inferred from the smaller terms, ijfq ie added tus, will equal the number, from side of the square in me- a long term, that is to say I am emerging;
Himself elders boundaries inferred will also equal the number at the root the average number of dudras obtained
between the numbers and and between and ipfif which are added, make the same number deny that between Se He was again among the Himself (whose them i o these as well
added make up) in equal measure if you added, conftituiu So you see how femme between two even numbers there is an odd half, quibufcurrL. the addition is done
it is also clear to anyone, except me God, I oppose an empty cell with an odd number, within which and he added, at last, when larerales
indeed Pronic properties.
I was in the opposite direction to libi loco between 2M. 6 preferred, ijfque added, finnliter
but the middle with the diameters of the way you like the same in numbers. completes the number It is therefore clear that pro- the system of collision is sufficient. But to make these more clear monftrenrur, the square numbers of the nouenarij are set, viti:
first, to produce a natural progression, from the vnitato vfque to s: vt is made
when therefore the same the numbers in column c d square a f cont. let them die, those colle&i I will go in one, , the same nu- it is a mere vteonfeiant neceffe. Again join to they produce a fertile smaller one, a terminunvad larger one of which the middle is added, the same smoke,
which numbers in a square the third cell day Irregular combination who?
Of afbdit is nmtierorum diagonally difpofita: , viz together there. Join the bush
to minor third to major the third thing and you will produce again of which i middle term added presents, vt first, and- this difpofition of numbers rnuenies in m h. transfer digeflam at the end of the square in the middle row
Join again? ad you will produce again to which the middle quinary added term they present and this contains the difpofition in the square of the diagonal of the three nu- mere
diipofition And there are four of regular terms with the medium combinations I already see irregular too-? combination
We call it an irregular combination, which is not the borders are smoked in this fertile border pay cool smoke, nor with the middle term, Fed or cx minors in larger terms anyway? gods added it will reflect; who became the pef ternary the sides of the square many times
you will have a smoke of all the numbers So join in on the holiday nume- dew with the natural and you will make n, which
he who has practiced you will join, you will have as well
i who- three numbers make up the number enter the column satisfied; for when are equal to each other, but vanity is ab should fail, that added to will give which one with Sc they clashed together. Again, adding to they give, to whom fi con- you will have to join which number they present together the three numbers in column e f are difpolitic. Back to the junipers Proprietary properties.
added, they present in one number. Finally join to 6c you will have to whom vanity should approach, they will come out
present precisely. True combinations of all here appcfitas to contemplate
Diagon. issue media transfer they do
make A combination of the first column throat, in which nu pf
And from to these It is clear that the smell only combines Qi,
may be done in this ninth year of the difpofition of the three nume- nations ii rioum, who are added
let's get together: that is to say, of three fe- oMdid of perpendicular lines, as many transfuerfarunu fPofitotum
tame several in dida by the progression of the number fint, which number
la- teres triad of squares let them be trusted together of all there is no reason to be reckoned You also see how every combination of three odd numbers the ends are partly even, and partly odd. Moreover, when refiiltent ex dudu ternarij it is from side by side the long term of all progress
which it is it is fertile: all ungulates; of three numbers you will hit It is clear from this that the trinary must be re-conceived for be in h ilee numbers r, P
at you will have to add I; double quinary, Se fi the middle a quinary should come you will have three fivers, who make additions say to these numbers extremi, added female through they give a double quinary, that is, to whom They give the added number of five, three, as they say
quinary with the other numbers also y8fi the middle term ab exttemis4, he will defend his vanity and escape it quinarium, the extremes will remain true who with they will give the other two quinars smile
be the middle term; courage to both of you mo If they have communicated with each other, he will remain
indeed, Himself listen with courage, they will become 8c who young men conspired the other two quinars But in these numbers-4, a
subtracting they will remain but adding they give e which give two other quinaries. Finally- in these numbers i fi ab Se totidem. d abllra- if you add they become but change the two terms to binary Pronic properties.
After and are added, the other two are closed quinary So see how wonderful it is by reason of exceeding excef the smoke of the tumors, nicely leveled, they caught in one smoke. And from these, if I am not mistaken, the reason why vi- I entered the number of the fertile side of the nineteen-year-old square three cells appropriately digeflas, in all things per-infallibly the same number produce, that not only about this odd square, fed of all but you produce other odd squares ad infinitum, vt in the light we shall say, to understand the eil
Of the second square that cx in fe leaders emerge with Mathematica, and the Seal of Icutus is called The scarcity of these numbers much more difficult efi proceeding, for because of the parity of the square, the mean of the he has no fear of you so also another difpofitionerm. requires We, as far as our wits permitted, and this facile We will try to return the file. Since then the square from is composed of numbers, or what is the same, ex quaternary in feipfo duk emerges, fic proceed. De- It was written as a natural process numbers, from i vfque advancing to itf, vt is done
whom he diligently fcrua. This pera&o become a square in the form of a truncated rhombus
vt in the preceding sentence cfl, thus vt oblique pretend you will hit the diagonals of the four cells of the square let them hold, as it is done
Divide your numbers in the order in which they occur. fpones, ideft, fertile four Claffes, which a little an- t have been warned The first battle of the numbers natural retrograde in the future You see that the square bus is placed at the ends The second key of the numbers put in order tur in the transference of the cells, which are contained in tra fpatium f eo tamen pa&o, vt two media, square, and being the two extremes occupy, two- bus in o p empty The third class of numbers
on the other hand fpacio g h difpo- they float, in the same way that the numbers in fspace f1 fe- with going to Claflis The fourth, finally, of Claflis numbers.
the rest of the lower extremities dratuli d i h c, in order they are difpohantur y vt-vides
And so you have a reason for difpofition j nothing, further Difpodtio
reftat, nifi vt how the numbers outside the square a b c ""f ia
d, within the same, in as many empty cells correfpon- imeuontus let us say that the teeth may be moved in a timely manner t that di- fpar reason for the practitioner it is done; i for the preceding thrice the smaller numbers are opposite, in the opposite the empty joea We crossed which does not happen here, led to the limits alternately facing places of transfer rope, jVt you have intent this meadow
g. not in a vacuum, a square
reda, oppofitum, fedin alternately oppofitum that letter R, we pretended, they put. so not in R, fed in V they must be put uncuffed against this in M, that in V. alternately opposite fspaces to be transferred as well, they are Hardly close reason
in o like alternately opposite empty fspace con- tra U this in p, that in galterne oppofita vacua- fspaces are to be transferred. To whom it is true, you will have the square of the difpofition of numbers dike vtfinguli four orders how-
when they are smoked, let them finish what doubt on the side of the square smoke: they give of all the numbers i34. Figur3e difpofi- that make sur. . wow lemongrass i. e
Whose square a b e d, the numbers in that order difpofi it has tos, viz
which is not so much about orders network, transfers, dia- it must be understood, fed 6c of clay torum number four fimul jun&i, the same number they flash back Let us see the reason for this, a little alder or He will go to the day
If two numbers of any natural progression, which with incrual waters from both ends, be added it will be an aggregate of additional molds ag gregato, that cx two boundaries at the ends it is done with the smallest and the largest with a bow
Let the numbers be spread out in order lest progreifione natural with which I did mouse Pronic properties
Of these, any one of the two extremes of aB. If you join the dibanrcs into one, you will have: to be gathered the aggregate of the two extremes i dc
to rich, smoke completes numbers, in with clay in order: squares, returns, squares, diagonals additional For the greater limits of verfus the middle terms dc continue to be left empty but the smaller terms, which: they go on, with a continuous effort, and even to the middle terms,
let them grow; neceffarid- fit y vt these numbers', next proportional growth perpetual decline they despise your equality, v. g dc extremum Fed this one the same number, di junda
to go to go j, dc junda 2, 6c sheaves i. t. dc to go give and finally, they accomplish; namely- while the lesser terms increase with ab- ynity, only the smaller opposite numbers: d decree Icunt, the same of all other numbers to be understood ell And from here is born that admirable property? the numbers contained in the cells of the rows in any case the same number is always smoked, see although when you hide your shoulders let them be done For all are gods in- development natural ig terms
because they make the ptobatum that media the limits of the whole progression, as well
four terms in one you wear, you will have again fiction of the rest
femme for from the ends of the two numbers aqueduct and to the two middles addition of the same number re- will support. So I will not be surprised
a square artificially, that is to say, the clothes with which I gave it is, let them be spread on the spoons ranks you return to the old tradition
you will move, diagonals, in clay four vna no matter how you smoke mere emergence, when the whole foundation of this di- fpoiition iaate fub by the natural progression of numbers
in which four will be able to put together as many combinations of the same number of numbers completed, quot combinations are found in the square, the same number making rum
square of odd numbers ex quinary in fe duiio; whose conflict daughter-in-law! tfert d of the first square conit'ru3ione. True again we will explain in a few words. Pronic properties.
in whose quin- Dif I'm a fan oue squares diaeonws difpofitorum orders -numbers
in a square Describing numbers in natural order, on the patio where Mars, you see the fa&umeiie in an ineffectual figure, and they will remain enter square a b c d, as many empty fields as the numbers outside you see the square drawn; whom this industria within va- which fields of clay you cross. When in with odd squares, create a number of terms op- they are eating and drinking
within the opofita in the same column empty places transfer we ordered the fupra
next to pre- caught of this tenor business smoke with ease. ? you will finish
indeed in the same column g h the lowest number, in faced enter the same column as below will be placed
Qua- Of the hidden Numbers Quadr. L
into the empty field immediately before verb in opposition go same column place below will be located That's it column k in lo- when empty,
into an empty place before place there In the column transfuerfa u p,
the demonstration of which is the same as in the first square we have given away If in order natural progress to is continued r vt is done
the middle terminus is which, having been carried over to the square, is ideft by
multiplied, gives of numbers clay filter Pronic properties.
nis in the square exiftents, fiue re3: is fiue tranfuerfis, filum additional smoke so vt from the middle of the border with a square side multiplication soon, how much the number of columns of clay added to the con- let them be done, he was surprised and therefore happy progression the middle femper slips the place, so in the middle of the the cell will occupy the same
If already in progress dida-t five numbers, which didfrjm number filum let them do it, and that often whenever you can 6c combination permits, intended at the end have a doubt twice: number of times ifte enter co-squared lumnas is found, as often the same in did: a progreflione from which it was edu&us, be found
in the square of L you join the fimul, you will have he-
there about the rest for all j which in the sides of the square will give
therefore there is nothing in the square, which not in di3a should be kept in progress. On the floor like that artifice that of numbers by digestion is hidden and how it is clear, has already been said
On the Mathematical ConftruSlion of the Square of the Fourth Diffofition of the nurses square Sunday Of hidden numbers so of the numbers difpofiti in this square, vt di&us the number of lights, with the difficulty of laborerm He has an assistant who, however, is full of talent hairs will permit) we trust that they will soften us
When, therefore, the square of the Sun is 3tf, it is established from
in fe ipfum du&is for the dtfpofition of numbers in square, let's work They are written ordinal numbers natural A; B. C D from
I will finish this you were bearing diagram into form. Of Rhomboides, as in the preceding, it is a pledge, and here appears, in whose cell numbers said: growth You will invest in this clothing. Take the first step and the part of the numbers A fixed to it next to put the numbers from to in the lower part of the Roman boid, within the extreme cells, vt you see here Take then the fenced part of the extension is fixed letter F
Rhonv Prone properties.
Then in the right pocket of the phiq, hofce four put the numbers 7, 13, 15), a they are of order in pro- greffionc B C D E of the first, vtf rogreflio teaches fignata. letter but opposite to the pockets b. m n
hofce put the numbers, which go in order B C D E the last, cousins letters, m s a tt: would have the whole circuit was covered with numbers, wire
a b c d transferring The remaining numbers prev greffionishac induflna. raedijs square cells, in the wild-- bes.
ii rdinc four numbers attached to letters d e h, who funs Of hidden numbers j, In the column tranfuerfa h m
start by piendo, and by two areoles, in successive order po- numbers float progreffiens cousins letters o p q
beginning, omifTifque are placed in order-# the numbers of the progrelTion are fixed in order back you see the degree of numbers Finally, in co- tree tranfuerfa q r, starting at omifla one areola, the numbers were struck forward cousins letters ft k i c which are the numbers If you do this, they will stay within the square ABCD, five empty spaces at the same time with numbers in the circle of the rhomboids you will fill this with art
inrra columns be happy faced with emptiness cell larum they will occupy places, as you see: but empty lo- when it will have an alternate opposite, i. e. in the column
on the side I will finish Rhomboides, oppofitum in a transfuerfa columua
In the lowest part Rhomboid will be placed in the column fertile
y, a Ipacius. On the right on the side of the rhomboid four numbers cross this pad rent is transferred into the fecundum by the column transfer ucr Pronic properties.
but in the second from the columns were transferred q should be transferred to an empty place. And the fic of all the numbers in-square digestion you will have in which the numbers of the ranks are fictitious added they accomplish
of the three Monads, the son of the archetypal Sun, brilliant, if- I will give you a list. But the sum of all will be
high an amazing number of ideas in the three worlds exhibiting a difpofition system. The shape of a square come on Seals of the Sun (rider
ShtUum fiue square.
The sum of the lnlzyla Sl rum fex number every holiday anyway ptorum eftr
And this wonderful from the leaves pro- by the registration of numbers from to continued we pulled out: by which method, combinatorial work becomes to the finding of such a harmony, when this place does not take place, in Combinatorial Art, if God wills, I will be temporal
Confiruio square, feu Sigil teneris Mathematica. The square of fe du&is emerges) saw cet it is dedicated to Friday, whose difpofition no from the first and third square dilpofition in a different way experience read let it be first vt in the preceding, diagram ma Rhomboidc, in which numbers I'm stuck clear you are tge toseo order. ) vt in fequenri figure it is clear The first figure
h Pronicomm properties The seal of Friday becomes square A fertile figure.
All of them you will hit nu- mere filum they give blows
quickly multi- folded gives smoke for everything of numbers In this first square shape it is within that all the numbers in the four horns of the rhomboid extra placed in a square, they must be transferred, vt empty loc which: by numbers outside the square in the horns Confucius a: quantity, fill which indeed is not the case, as in group odd rice
horn of the fupenor outside square these numbers conflict; whom enter thus you transfer the empty areas of the square, from vanity enter column e f, count the number of cells, and enter place her vanity: Self in column g deorphum d
in- put it through again the dn column m fields count the orphan, place himself within the chamber
(ic in co- lumna n o, count the fields together store there the numbers in the right corner b d t, the same. profuse reason, in which transfer to the previous one enter go
yours Diffofino of numbers square Friday Of hidden numbers cuas the cells within the square confections Fed successful while the tranfuerfum 6c finiltrum made of areolarum. so- which is transferred from in the column number eight
put in the column r fa count odto within the otauum fields, and put there In column t u, cfeto again from count the last one, put there
count o5to fields, Sc put inside. otfiauam
in column z tt las, there replace, a count the last eight place it there
Then proceed in the lowest irc. horn Rhcmboides, from numbers with fingernails by earning in their own columns proceed the theft there the numbers from which to count ccepilli colloces s fic in o&aua from this number cell in column ki will be placed; item 8c in odd cells, as you see lo- center: item in columns h g, 8e Iro, vt 8c in column fe: In fact, in the horn rhomboid finiftro numbers
you will have shortage you see that it is finished shape fertile, of which demonstration of all he faces from those which is called the first fruitful square combing CanHmElw Seal of Mercury, from square Oto in fe du&a conftituunt this prcfens draw Pronic properties.
whose You will be aware of the fertile soil Yx, however, is a pea for all to the rest of this cn knitted I will work hard becomes easy, however work the matter will be mitigated I trust that he will fi mxia praeceptoru of others Rhboidfs Faoihfcnbes. The seal of Adercurius from square i i v. id
Order Dilpoficio of numbers m uaJiac'? Metcunj i oo hidden numbers III VTI VIII Ordo. .OrdoOrdojOrdo. 'Ordo. Order. Order. Order
rdinesl VIII. fiue A H first bring down Rome boid this to put on. They are supposed to environment to the farthest Rhomboides, in cells biigf e h k, a number the first order, .vt you see, : Sc in correpondente inferior Rho boid circuit in cells d J' A c this order retro- they were struck by degrees, of odd numbers, as you see. Second order numbers in all the places you have been you will adapt: I will go cell m is placed first then one cell is omitted third in the fourth n. desire in the column transfer fa. x they are placed in fifth and fifth cells from x
I want to go back to the column to be transferred ni
Third j order numbers so you put in tranflierfa column o n
Ifl the first cehula are placed then two ornaments cell flowers, in the fourth and in the fifth na tranfuerfa t u, in fexta feptima a t cell, stores
onwards: then cooler to dereHftam co-i luin lumnam o n, in o&aua, the ninth
You can spread the numbers of the fourth order the first areas q, let them be j then in the column transference f cells from r fifth put down the texts z6 in co- lumna p q, in feptima oftaua a q
areola, will be placed Se in the column rf, in the areola ab r ninth 6c dea-
The Fifth Order will teach this. boss diilribues
in the column r f in the last areola; ab r, starting with to pofteain column p q, in fifth 6e read from p cell lulai34, If in the columns r r cell, from f feptima o&aua are placed 2c in the column p q ninth tenth from p cells in the first cell, column nae r f from are replaced by beginning with r. Sixth order numbers so you will coordinate
in the columns put in the first cell from u in the fourth from put u in the fifth: if desired in column n cell from n and and on the columns u then
they float on columns x y, near y from this trawl hit-in the third cell if the fourth i, put Sc
Himself in the tenth place you will have of all numbers dilpofitienem correctly peradtaivu Because it is outside the square a b c d the numbers in the twenty-four spaces are divided Of hidden numbers how let us see that this should be done
to the farthest therefore Rho. nboid horn do not mere so distribute
po- they float on a column: tranfuerfe c d fertile a c areola
are equally licked by d areola, are placed the third Areola, in the third a d areola i are assumed in the column for re&a; f areola from f quarter
fourth from coi umnr On the horn of the right side are the numbers II: so you will differ. it is assumed that the first hate transfer the rear column; x m in fruitful column; transfer erfol m areola; I'm sorry areola tertia in third column transfer no areola, they are placed in the fourth areola co- the tree transversa; p q, vt St 3jin eolumnx vt vi. give Further numbers in the lower horn. Rhomboides fiction spread: By impregnating himself the third tranluerfe co- lute they are placed in space
eiuflatL, a column; with the sword Stleptimo, j 2c inoppolit. e tranf- You will place the fourth and fifth pillars of the column c and d
proceed are placed in the area of the third column u, from starting
likewise in the fourth column; f. in the tenth column: no;
in the ninth column; lm. and this pa&o ha- you will drink a square dilpofit of the Seal of Mercury, they sing clay no matter how you hit them, they will give a fumpt. e which ii by the side of the square, multiple
it will come out the smoke of all the numbers Who tio JI93
having trusted the truth, he will find it in all things my I don't trust a certain rabble md proceeding in proportion, as you please I would like to clarify at this point, the fwguia of the nifi Arti Combinaturis rcferuaflem whence these wonderful difpoGtioms force from the bottom I extrude they will be demonstrated
Breaking the Seal of the Moon is made of on p duets, Difjpoftie whose fumma 8j, square fu ppetit, of which for Seal uuaKW(w We are looking for a Monday fabricator. So, therefore, to work. Let it happen diagram of a rhomboid shape, in which spread the dicho lines across the fields diipofitas, as it appears from the foregoing
After that, nothing happened it will be easier how to mold them into four horns registered fm numbers fii$ correpondentives va- with which fpacijs inter lU. il c Of the hidden numbers Moon seal
There is no way to get a head start the difficulty has so only a few Belts horns let them have numbers his they are heads column I will partially redo the rum, will be partially transferred
inferior ba- they obtain the same end: in column D H head
inbafi8i prtefem numeti indeed the right wing with the same columns tranferfales obtain whence whence it should be transferred is of numbers what wire from bcd translation To whom declared, the numbers the first horn b has no square business infer
fi from the first five columns deorfum ten area you will count them, for the tenth areola empty brain she will be, in which number, which the front of the column pre- feft, to be translocated eff. v. g. be made by i inside column D H ten You will count the fields, the tenth will be she areola within which I will have to put; equal padto you proceed with the numbers of the table. Numbers but below smile horn as well as the thief, counting the tenth that enter appropriated columns areola they will have
ready Fari pa&o numbers in the horn finffro a G c appropriated columns, transfuerfis, the tenth Lemper aTheola will be found by transposing the number, whom what- I like the column be a part of nothing prefers, capable
also in the right wing mold get inside columns transfer, the tenth prepared cell they will find, in number, which the right column part pre- brings, receiving. v. g. will be located in the tenth areola transfuerfa columns GE, &j within the same column for the finiflrorfum, in which it is placed they will find And this pa&o the whole square with absolutely no business yours by numbers you will have filled in, in which the numbers -lingulas of the columns, fi u e redarum, they will be transferred
come on diagonal, with the addition of they produce, which through times the side of the square, they give dTumma to every woman of numbers j. qua- wire with ficum
VIII. square flies How do you want to be surprised? let the fub be concealed in numbers, that is fb lum Ariihmetic experienced side; I'm sorry Di- In the preceding passages of the Seals, we because of the square frame
nor Modern, mysterious the reason for this (whatever) growth it runs, that fi feiffent toss, the heart of the world's faith; bodies, and their Ge- nijs so hofee cubic squares elementary They dedicate themselves to the ClafTibusGenijf of the world
Gubicum's square is nothing else how to gretfion Geometricaeab vanitate fub' double, proportion not continued; of numbers; you will hit
how many squares has any number of units v. g. if he trusted to make a cubic square, that square
fic will work. They are supposed to be fub of the term, vt
These Pronic properties.
what drato nouenarij Saturni we taught But an example let's give A rhomboid diagram is described, force give In which the geometrical data progreflion T V you will place it in order, as you see. Then hofce the numbers she- read it within the spaces of the square a b c d cells transfer you will put, which in the square fa&umeft; viz
enter the fourth cell opposite the first, is a thief spring I was in the fourth cell, but in the fourth. finiftrorfum, Sc in the fourth cell right-handed moving forward tranipones, vt you see I would have cubic wire in which linguli orders be transferred
the returns, the diagonals, will give the same number, here ta- men di square process the same number of teeth added they make so he here
no io8 Of hidden numbers the fun of multiplying without adding in fe, vt even that number you have for this is the pasture molders the numbers of orders in fe to be multiplied, they will give
Multiplication method let's start go in the first row you will multiply v8 by and the result is multiply by and you will have no stool others to proceed you think
Square Room We have given an example in number the odd ones are now even too fub Let's join the example
If so kick in a square of in business to attempt willed
fub continue Geometricx pro- of registration let the double proportions be placed in order you see
Ho- Inscribe the Hofce numbers in the same pad as the fupra fe- done with the second paragraph it is in the making of the square Thursday however the difference is that painted there through fwdecim: , numbers-progreflione natural dilpofitos you are great so with this game you can spread the numbers of fexdecicn in that order, which proceeding geometrically progress l4t
Of the outside the square Exiftentium im. square abcd translation, in exactly the same way by which in the making of the square we made, : Scinue- nies that of clay -numbers side rows not ad- diti, - fed vt multiplied in the preceding fidu efb in fo in turn, they will give exactly the same number The square of the cube is a huge number Do you also have a lot of free time? of discovery material to be reborn
by extension emerging with the help we omitted, for us in the meantime. abffrufi open the doors of business
and alijfque way- monffrafle ad the rest innumerable other females of equal skill 8c to be discovered lio O hidden number CAPV. T; IV. .2? aha& easy difccfticne of this kind of numbers.
perhaps it would seem more difficult with different methods, another At this point I decided to add it
who happy there, just: The whole artifice he confided unified by the arrangement of the numbers, within the square gnomons in- black of someone the contents of the square"
And I call them gnomes square circles those to whom a certain square is surrounded by a bus. Gr. square and that which is produced from the nouenary trust cell square file 8e contain within ie quatuof. environment
fire gnomes square of whom the first fmna there you are allowed a b c d the other e f g h
the third i k m fiction of. of the rest
first gnome, numbers from i. .ad
How indeed, and with what these gnomes: to be filled with numbers fint that can be done clarity: to be explained Prooofio
The circumference of the first gnomon a bc d is divided into
parts, so that each side is divided into parts cenleatur vti equitur nin
Within this gnomon environment progress ArithmeticEe I would strike vfque ad This pa&o difiones: Since in this environment a b c d cellu'a: iint, which om- they must be filled with numbers: First half term of our minors, which are
then put the rest of the old numbers in the opposite cells He wants to put half of it on how to do it should
Primd carefully in progression arithmetic natural medicine even and odd terms. odd boundaries
they will occupy mddiain the lowest? mustache parterrt the remaining four cells
But you put the terms on the side b d, next to cells b m n o. but you put p in opposition la- teres a c, in the middle of the room then in order again peers The proprieties of prophecies.
in that order, where you see: You are odd but the intermediates of these
you put in the basement side by side, next to the letters ikl. finally thrice a little put in cell a, And you shall have in the first circle of half the numbers reda dilpqfitum: vt therefore there is no need for anything else, half of whose cells should be filled nurse j which will be done in this way. It is assumed that the number of holidays or dine natural village to then the boundaries at the beginning I was a little from the lowliness of v(and ad
jOiJjjofitio of numbers for the first Gnomon of which the beach has cells, half njerh
From this Table make them empty cells fill in: empty cell stepped on cells
then empty cell apofita cell: put 8cv, this meadow all the terms are placed in the order of magnitude those cells go to whom, what to minors boundaries with desire fua I am glad now
They are opposed to the teeth and this meadow you will have first mum square gnomon circle all were you me Of hidden numbers merely complete, as in the example it is clear; apportionments These are to be understood not in a two-part manner, fed laterally Sc normally fumpte
diametrically fibi to have opposite numbers but the numbers in- cells c and d have opposite numbers normally only in the cells of the side a b. 8c numbers side, a c. op- are placed by the numbers of the cells, side b d
In Gnomonefecund to spread the pronic numbers. The second square of the whole gnomon f g diui- is given in following parts so as a mold sides fe- etc When this is done, the parts of the diuifa should be divided, as in the previous case done, in half inferior the sides are closed mere oddities next to continued growth hit me
which you owe when in the first square in already in this by shining a gnomon, you will place it in a fertile cell, im. the third, Himself
in the fourth polt this hifce you will put the mere on the side m in the lower that is to say ib you see, then is placed in opposites ris middle cell, then equal terms
impatience vero in front of the gnomon VX, that which you see
put in order; 6e in, V, the cell is set as a boundary
and you shall have half the terms of progress in right places difpofitos j vti you see
As the cell is empty: fill it with the other terms there fic age: Dtfpone fruitful order natural made of numbers interrupted of growth arithmetic order, since in the first gnomon very The mouse number was in vain empty cell
Of hidden numbers dispute, a Start with the number and I will drop it to the that is clear, then Ibpplimenta fingulorum ad' fuppone spoons which you will obtain fi holce fictitious numbers from xdumeri continuous for a fertile gnomon, tjui breath in the amlitus. cells, half of
greedy cell$ are placed in the vacant position cell 6e fic de caneris, vt is evident in the fertile abacus
Ledlor will offer you the results of these numbers. they are polished, they occupy half of the borders, the rest will be filled with empty cells. propolis III. . gnomon. thirdly, to spread the pronoic numbers He has a gnomon here i5 cells around so each side in five cells let him be censured to divide
In this gnomon the terms a where to with which the props of the molds are furnished, which; you will get a flipper from where you see Pronic properties.
I I Wumeri feu Termini continued fro tertgnmom amU you, who made the cells, dimtdtum his
Therefore, the higher numbers are imposed in this way: from fertile cell of the mustache beginning, to which you will put 29mfecundaJ
3-n. then in the first cell on the side of p. c 'mda a. 2. then in the middle of the opposite side room and then polyea in the penultimate front d. 6c m pnma, the same vti in the first figure is clear
Hifce of your appetites, in empty fpatrjs set boundaries with clay answering eg. in an empty room opposite cell:
put in the opposite cell of ca in third order, as was said in the preceding
you will have a gnomon with numbers wires infcriptum, vt in fertile figure is clear- Fro- hidden nutnets Prcpofitio V
Spread the pronic numbers in the fourth gnomon I trust the fourth gnomon and the smallest who has odo cells in amhaju, half verb evatuor. since the last term of the preceding gnomon fi- he looked here shining will start at and to which you will place in the fertile chamber of the lower side fire mustache you see
qo. nor for the fourth gno-
(second the side room of the fimlbi in the first beer front
corresponds to number in Opposite room nu- mere diametrically opposed: cella: fic de ccete- smile as you see in the first figure, but half the number
rests it belongs to the middle room, and this pado ha- drink fake numbers in gnomon tongues to delete
This contains the nomen odor ccl! as around
so vt the sides of the mold diuifa ceniean- Icrie of mere fiue terms Pronic properties.
fiue diametral numbers will be added, one bc ean- they make that smoke, viz
Neta, on the side of the fub hifce the gnomons are wondrous what I will give properties, the first of which will go, that fi gnome the first to be thrown away, the remaining aggregate gnomo- whether you were of the frontiers fetid. however-J you stole the same number for yourself becomes If you then depart from the first and fruitful gnomon numbers next to it you will hit be happy add the third gnomon smile you will throw a fi ngulte will they give you this pablo the fourth Sefic de together teres
For if the fmgularum I will hit the numbers one gnomon from another's holidays futrahas, femper rema- nebunt fumrna progression Arithmetic, which is the same eil, in vain
Mercury Square Whence emanating, these fcquents Rules First. .Enter the given number of cells in the nies side of the Square, whose perimeter is be divided into cells the circumference of the rings is multiplied by to the quotient come You give an example grace, environment, first gnome nis in the preceding paradigm
to whom join will have a side one of celktlas, Utus quickly square Second Rule Given the sides of the square, inoc nies the number of cells in the environment feu gnomone propo- become fi iubtrabat vnita from the side, the rest multiply you will believe Of the hidden Numbers for they will come forth through the number of cells in the environment of the gnomon. This pad, given on the side square
you will have a range of cell numbers j fi purchased multiply the remaining by they will come out for the number of cells in the square gnomon leptenarij Make the side of the square again has been will remain from which; multiplied
give bunt the number of cells in the environment. This p3&o a square is made from the ternary side of the three cells, subtracted in the absence of there remain qua: duda in they will give mere cells in the environment. Given a true number cell in the environment, the side you will find
Profit To spread the pronic numbers in the Septenarij Square. If the feptenarij square in the gnomons which three has, to spread according to the usual manner trust
proceed in the same way, painted in fe with the gnomon of the advancing paradigm di- We proceed to postulate, with the sole exception of this, that thrice mini fint different
So let it be from the odd one out root for example, the square product of is So di- I suppose the progression of numbers in the first place environment
ells These numbers the fuperiers are deceived in the same way io ambitu gnomon feptenarij, we spread them with figs in the fertile gnomon of the preceding square ninety
this gnomon in- more severe counting opofitis "vacuums". pre-; receding gnomon cell
the issue of Fuppleios yides.
In the fertile truth of this square gnomon just spread the boundaries, which in the third 6c fourth gnomo- do not see that the preceding example is absurd, vt it appears here
progrelfion very you will be added to my term to be done for these fu- greater numbers of fubdu&i, they will give it numbers
but two gnomons included in the fibi rc&e order nes, I will strike first spread the fic: Run side of the gnomon from A fruitful rule fuprapofita becomes
cells they will be in the whole environment cells which di- Of hidden numbers half
the rest of the term. half
This done, Gnomon successful while fic you will have a dilpofit, whose finguh sides do the same fum my mother, that is, Third the last gnomes difficulty
Previous gnomon we look back The term of the extension was July and therefore this last gnomon a
beginning, in the same order in the cell set your limits painted in in the last square of Mercury); Self quo- nia environment of this gnomon leisure cel lae compete, half of these, vtpote so pnuK) spread
In the middle mustache are placed in the cellar, himself in the first place la- teres finiflri, again in the middle cell ckxtri side
He was the same at first whose in go with which the remaining four cells are opposed. Himself in heart
ceu Pronicomm properties.
centers are set at half of the arithmetic progression cae vfque ad
No fee in the square of even numbers give, and in the same diffusion within the cells, in hi- let us proceed with two examples, so also in everything at any rate at the end of the square of the odd numbers you have to proceed faintness; therefore nothing something else re- he cries
no one vt how in terms of qua- wires, and the difpofition of the same in the cells let us teach that it may not proceed.
Of the of the pronics, and they fall in the squares of the pair by difpofition of terms
Before in numbers of this kind difpofition is hidden futility, such and such wonderful strength and property
for before I had penetrated into the womb, I could not be surprised by fate I will protect, how to human intelligence she fall into Let them protect, because nothing is so difficult as not to be smoke infallible principles, and those understand easy have files origin here hidden secret a few ex- I will put The whole rnyfteriofa of numbers difpofitio confiftic in the natural progression of numbers not from this while squares, fed cubes the rest algebraic powers You will get out of the business easily
Se- who progress of numbers natural complicates om- To be admired you want to rum hidden numbers all progressions of whole numbers except fblis by placing the roots in a fertile place
In this process you will have squares like this: times, they make a binary square: do what quaternary wire 5, 7-square quaternary
square fast nose. i i, square odonarij, fic about the rest infinite Make the rooms proportional too you will get
fit- the first cube i-fidein tk you join, you will have cu- bum binarij, videlicet then iunda, fa- they form a ternary cube: iunda, they do cube quaternarij fic de the rest but the numbers of fumpfers are equal in the same progression, because it is done
by which easily read intel, , how many go any polygons the shape of the fint angle: equal return angles: : For example:
eifc term quar- a short time before pofita: , heptagonus liib feptie fpecie of polygons; And so I got the corner of any heptagon let them be ten return to the corners: let all the corners of any hexagon be angled return the matter Sc fic about the rest. It is therefore hidden from the growths nuraerorurcu come on to them which is clear from this that the algebra of all mathematics matum jubtiliflfima nothing something else it is done, as some calculation of geometric progressions; better than Timur in this presfent difpofition of pronic numbers it shines wonderfully
Perhaps therefore, of the odd terms in We have done the diipofition given by the square a little while ago, not it is something else as a reason difpofition boundaries let us teach more It is true that many things are accomplished in a few ctamur, the whole business in the same abacus, co- which we will exemplify
i Propofitius V.
shoulders pronic in the square of the nttmeromtm Let it be. For example, a square whose side have I will have cells, and his first one. environment next to fe- 6o polished Ruler, cells, which should be the limits of natural growth so difpo-- to spin, vt fi n gluttony of numbers in the square nor- evils, be transferred, the diagonal give the same name rum make them also on the four sides the same number supports it, namely y. Do so: first First of all, the number of hits is set with what to which will be half of those numbers, which the bus covers the whole area fuses jn cells as many dt- i z6 Of the hidden nitfhcromm {tribute. Because it is a square contains the whole in years it is clear
to this number status juxta progress of arithmetic laws you will judge, you will have and here it is number by which the fubrracli numbers They leave numbers face it to be placed in the empty cells, as it is done.
cells o. o'clock in the middle
Higher numbers they express progreffioneitL Arithmetic from and to which are half. cells environment the first
2io Pronicorom properties.
shoulders continued for the third circle not even one who has a cell. half a dozen
'The numbers continued for the fourth circle gnonrnw, who has cells of half I will be his
Continued numbers for the fifth circle of the gnomon y who has cells z8. half of which
Numbers continued for fecto apibttugnommts, , cuitts celldjunt zo. half yo
QuatHor is the deity of the innermost cells i z8 Of hidden numbers You can see all the terms here in the thick of the environment to be placed on the bus jerieni; how indeed chills finish guli$ environments applying Tint to the cells, already taught mouse
Therefore, for the limits of the numbers in the first gno- the advice to be placed in the environment, so proceed to the rear you continue with bus numbers from to start by walking And so on the right side b d, in victim ctlla it is assumed that i, 8ern is the first the same cell are placed on the side Then you will proceed from here to the northern side a c, Se in. fe- cunda Put himself in the third cell 8e then cutting to on the right side, place it in the fourth cell of the fifth cell
Returning again to the north side, he girded himself poor Cells are placed. then interrupted curfew the next cell is placed in the front
From here cutting through mustache in whose third and fourth cells you will place ao
de- thence returning to the source, you put it in the fifth and fenced cell
in which you will put it in the room.
then returning to front tem, in his you will put the ninth Se the tenth cell Se returning to Bafrm, in his fifteenth Se twelfth cell la put Se Se. hinc going back to the front
this fa&o reuerterc to the finiftrurn side, whose odaua Se ninth cell poft put Se Se here decide are placed in the eleventh cell of the right side
Returning to the finiftrurn side, in its twelfth place the top of the third cell Se 28. Se from here to the right side it is restored
his penultimate He was the penultimate one cell put Se You will have Se half termiporurru Abate in fepttM Gnomes dtuifus
J inity to continued in the order of Atfirtbmm. he went Pronxc properties.
If so fw with greater numbers of iatn within the cells be happy difpofitis in- higher numbers
you face you will learn from the empty cells to- then a gnome to all already completed with the previous numbers then
Thus you see that courage is diametrically opposed cell to weigh binary diametrically opposed cell refpondere ternario transairfa opposite fita cell rclpondere according to the holiday numbers in the first progression of the order of the priests, And about together teris-
exc goes are from to from to and to him to feruatis, no in spreading numbers the difficulty to experience, while next to the fertile abacus (in which all the gnomes were scattered around, the numbers are di- also in bright colors expreffi fpedantur) progref- You say you were
The Druid is here in the midst of the gnomes the first of whom A B C D is fixed. Second E F G Tertius K L Fourth N O P Q. Quintus R S T V. Sextus V V XY. The seventh y f. In these you see the numbers next to each other are more advanced arithmetic so dilpofitos, i. e. the middle of the numbers (eu terms part in one case the gnomon becomes black, in another red coort fat and numbers indeed black in color scratched off Of hidden numbers they note in the feptem progreflionum ferebus fupcrioKS nu- but the lower numbers of the mere red, complement it rum, fiuc major terms in you face empty cells to put them Whence Lefior, examining the casts, knew warnings when you hit the edge of the branches with bearing, facHd in the artificer), no tiliam perucnitt But it surpasses all wonder, so much of numbers mash into a square abacus so artificially spread out, as from thence the number of ten whatever they finally hit the ytranuerfa pendicular, diagonal added, one femper let them make the same number, that is, nu- Merus prouenit, fi aggregatum colle&um from my too much the greatest by the addition of the term, by half cell larum side you will multiply the squares. the sum of but of all the numbers you will have, fi through
you multiply the square they will come forth, for Profit. VII. Wu mere pronicos nen square, in any square, I hold the cells that are even, and those that are odd. they will blow out the smoke from the jingulispheres damcltfpanere Proceeding from Squares Cubics ris only within the fua spreading squares thodo I have spoken with reason, but I will teach you this the mouse does not even count the numbers square feet Pronic properties. at any rate, within a given and then to one of the sly tongues, a bloody smoke let us dilpooere Therefore, let there be fruitful growths that you enter binarij Square di fponcre you
The reason why all the numbers you will hit on vnarru smoke be reduced, because in the progress that and oxen of arithmetical numbers such as the middle of fspace diditi, firnul jundi, one with the middle femper burning smoke they produce
vti rce progress it is clear that i and together with make Also z
6c Why nothing more relates snow be spread within the square in the manner in which im. you see many examples of fad, in which hit the numbers are first spread diagonally in order natural
then i$z Of hidden numbers deiiide qua: they are outside the square
p0nan mr in opposite places of empty cells, you will have cast off. In fact, the sum to strike the clay in pri- mo. Quadjato will be
in the fourth Square Sum- is true of all will be held h one bring it here smoke mom on the side you multiply the square
first it will come forth Jn fecundo in the third in four
Harimir, therefore, of any also the god of infinite production square termrij to one of all fummam emerge I will give so spread out
vti four those who are fertile it is clear from the examples, indeed. 9 fig First Example Second Example-. For now, I'm sorry
he hidden numbers And I will write about all the developments fiue order natural whatever difference you continue to make you will proceed
In the square from the quaternary conHituto. numbers fe- decimfub with any natural progression thus spread out t figuL m the square of four numbers Jeri
Let there be progress fub natural of numbers ene in abundance page it is clear All of them are excited
the boundaries of the branches ie within the Square God in all and the growth of the trees added, vnain, and the same smoke they make Reason elt
equally diitotesfpacio additi, fempcfvnam fimul cunu added to the two rnedijs they make smoke
Yes you see go the first progression i p k? . added to do, also they do p. the same
to dita-, the same middle number p They make it double. Yes it will be completely extinguished in every fruitful one progress Fionibus; in the last filum to I bought the same number ris, all numep at the same time from the two intermediates fpacio diiiit
No- nnnuojj ojSltlold StuwnH Pronicorum pro Bone O X VMA1A X X X M-H rt M X trsO NQO Q O x H
a, NO J2 X M H x X x x X x. M NO nhvsNO mouth O W h h h, x X X XX X x
weight no rco. .oo. oo x xx-xxx-xxxix
OOsO x rrt VfsO X X X. x X X X in Q
x-i Of the hidden things Qnx with the doctrine of progress clear fint
mlTcltar, there is no longer any way to enter them with what genius quadrari quaternarij cells id so difponaiitur vt iin- guk vnam the same smoke of numbers trust let's fix them. And so it is to work: A figure was written diuila in the cells, as you see
clafles diuifos And four indeed first terms i.
di- fponcs, vt i 5c within a square, 2-really&T3. out of the square ca-
so you spread, vtp below out of the square v Vero' n in order the same tranferfa within the square below: are placed, as an example it is clear At last the fourth term so difponantiir, Sc intra- infimas the first and last square cells occupy the cell; veto outside the square eafdetn, and you will have nu- mere difpofuos; qtfomQ Vero who as well as funk numbers, within the blanks cells square transfer they must be carried, I explain: When 'to' ends within a square empty cell? , how many extra numbers square footage runt and mold them accordingly you will match the cells: First we put c0 alternately ih qppqfitis empty etc Pronic properties.
cells, viz. in one cell near
in the void a room near by declension; fnmliter below the thing outside the square, in the opposite corner of the void cells decufiatinv are put, videlicet near 8ciy near Those of the numbers outside the sides of the square they are
them as well in the coaltern facing the empty square cells they go to be put uncuffed, namely p fub
the rest, however, outside the square to the left Sc go- put the rum in the coaltern are to be placed in empty cells,
namely fupra j fubt. and this patio even of all. a complete set of numbers you will have, where-
hit four numbers no matter what please come back, transfuerse, diametrically, femper one they will prey on the same number, namely
What is the truth? the appetite will be evident to the examiner, where I have just given them through oftenfam forced into a square It is clear in the three examples that follow
Let any number be finally squared Jiue not to spread out the squares
ijlf) J l iSZVi J: :Jl1oQqo V ltL. O
With these fce nu meres secret burning the thing, he took me for the treachery of knowing him binary or ternary which know the squares, led roots the difpofition of this type of wire is poffinr to have place Thus the whole artifice in the equation certain, -fme exceflu some tte defe&u numero- I could trust the rum so too such speculation there was no need
So therefore to work. Let them be first nu- in the mere order of nature, wherever you will: Ex; gr: If not a mere parallelogram, of which one side
al- it should have times, to spread to trust: Let them be numbers difpofiti i, of these numbers half- them in order retrograde they are fooled by the first three in the example it is clear
you will have which. :
because the superiors of the inferiors femme fupplet The dete&um of the fuperiums to I have already difpolui this time numbers from n to then from vfque ad
retrograde number, Sc liabit example vt he shoots go- Il t ii
Again iint, the numbers drpofiti a. i vfquf ad inc vfquc to letragredantur
Jfouct Exeipplut. . Under biwmi number
I was angry dtlporvi I owe it let's proceed with lai-n vaoadeos numbers, which square within the square, however (n odo diipoi. i queant ad vnamlummamcx mgu is three to be rescued during the holidays. .and this was done by a wonderful Combiner of Art industry: Let these be the three numbers to spread the wire like this, vt you will hit let them trust
Combinatorial Art will teach you this easily: when emm three numbers you will kill that they may be combined
hypo- If they are able to make the numbers i vt fingulx strike out A combination of numbers it is done
i. vi Will I have the same intent? , with each the proportion of numbers is flue arithmetic, fme qeome rnca, with the exception of one of the diagonals, viz. in fruitful numbers it is clear Pronicor properties.
If it is the first three numbers wonder of art proofs, the same number will appear
And I will write about the others, each of whom you will hit the mm inside the square fence thus they are made to be combined, viz from the addition of the same number it will reflect
Le&or from here easily will collect, how beech tree hit the given character with any numbers so by corn bi natione im q uad rat um poflit r vt in- of any you will strike eunc. cm should return the name
Square the number of cells in the square pronicos jub (juacurncjue proportion given to depose
j, And put it in the interior by four numbers process giving, which you spread within the binary square, you will strike the mold to produce the same fuminum. Because so- that quaternary side by side of coinbination laws weeks it could be combined four times, ie never the same don't you just rum you will meet
you will be able to by combmauoms cof spread it in ways, i. e. below squares cell ddpofiti, never the same number on holidays in the holidays, however, the numbers are added same woman it emerges through the smoke; quE things at the end deservedly paradoxical
to be seen pofht, fi Ars Combirutoria lllanveuidenter no would show Let's take an example in three squares, indeed
square that too opcrofurm would be. Why to the Reader? ta. n-
Ccm Pronic properties.
And in this way and until the twenty-fourth what and to change the same thing you may not. more, exhaufta. If true five numbers are proposed to you in squared so dilponendh vt fmgulas you will hit femme And let them make the same smoke, ; ways; I made it out of power, in the same amount square differentiTima the difpofition of numbers. It is true that you may see the wonderful power of eombination v here, every time numbers in squares vfque ad nouenarij square in different ways, whose but you will strike he collected one and the same smoke let them freeze
fyoni pofiintj to attach vifumfuit hidden Numbers In the quaternary square, ways to add these poflunt numbers:
In the square fcnarij. ways
In the square feptenarij. ways these In the square odonarij. 40320 these ways In square nine. ways
Like pretending you will hit one and the same number trust they can
And fic ad infinitum; which is every human thing He was a genius to be understood
aEgyptij thought with the help of these numbers, Ge- mundane people attract pofle, per mundane various clefs of chains, which they call Verruru since we are already in Oedipus's mode tank fuperftitiofum, Sataniois suffocated by the illufiones re- we tried it, we said no more about it to be eaten This is certain, however, fub today I don't know what on the other hand, the analogous ideas, that be one of the confu the mifcella of worldly things, according to this artifice He wants to bring back not too much, nothing natural to him, I was denied by the insufficiency of things; just like while in a random freezer of numbers crowd let nothing be hidden betrayed, while in that order can be built they go Pronic properties. they are the same number no matter how added he coughed, so and so the threefold Kingdom of Nature tent thing confused, which, however, to certain clafles reduddx to be admired both for the public good and for medicine: vfum bold pradlare. pollent
who clarles certain all that: in triple kingdom they are Lunar, or Mercurial, fiue Venus: , you cook Martin, Louie, or Saturninus: nature: , in vnam shine would bring him back, that wonderful young man in the care of diseases, with which: they look back at the given key, I would believe the tower
If the chemists they don't want Sympathetic minerals into one body by Combinatorium bring back the art forfan repe. rirent, which so far anxiety it was for they are hidden fub certain combination Is the matter so surprising to the effetes? they don't want bi For in the same way I have spoken of numbers so they spread the word refute the effect of the rors, so that the Physician or the Chemist va- of the materials properties won't there is no doubt about it taking into account the temperature, weight, and calorific value
so he will be able to adapt the materials into one, viz an infallible effete would be born. The truth about the hill in Art noitra Goaibinatoria fuse we did Le- pore we sent back, where will see j how om- nia into a multitude of diflfula, then to vanity All things naturally desire, that they may be reduced, he added to these of the crown instead of the playful art of pronici with the help of dew, to whom they would be hidden from one another the concept of the mind will be able to blow through the epiphtole
Ste- Of hidden numbers Stegattographic Artificium 'vfu of these numbers to be instilled
Vfo fan in Steganographics, that is, hiding fubobtcuro fcnbendi kind of arcane, the best. my it's crazy And so proceed. Get it from Squares of any number you wish; eg. Of the four
Nouenartj in your cells I will divide, as you see here; through this you will be able to strike whatever you want safely in the natural order of the numbers i. e. va- not within the cells with the grace of pearls. If and so this Would you like to transfer Tpiftola and liver to some Prince? You should warn him first, in which square as you would
then you will strike an epiphtole, in words or whole, or interrupt ptis, jun&is or difiundtis, it is the same, in the cells next to natural I hold numbers, from vlquead proce- I give: that which I receive. correlpondens, ftarim Nouenari; he will explain the square before fe, of the numbers here the leery of the dilperos
according to these two, he will read dtipofita fibi within the square fimile v words, , Se. which was secret I'll find out. . Pronic properties.
Specimen Steganographkt jEpiftoltj clan Of hidden numbers Let Gr. piftola in huncftnfutnjcript
for there is none of them. your downfall
it is good for you: you will see for the time loco. , vt tempeftiue
if you intend to do so, you will be able to for the day will come
Each word is set you were in cells next to mere incriptos-, some words here diuilarcpe- ries, the parts of which you put in the cells those whose numbers ex- the first This one Letters by no mortal to be understood will be able we now know the manner of difpofition of numbers within the square, where: efk keys to the secret enodan
I'm sorry Pronic properties.
while j For if by nature hit the numbers proceed in epiphtoia fcripta, 8e feorfim fihgula notauc- lis, at last you will find that the entire epiiola has been killed. . tfoc the same aijificio. quojialipafflo ex- will be able to But he who knows the various dilpofition m Infinuata previous methods, by changing it to clauad If you pour out the fat, it will make it impenetrable, and so much the same more impenetrable, the more divided into several cells
If anyone wishes to proceed with this technique, he in this square i. random numbers optional be in order, either returned, or retrograde, or in any way I give the intricate hereafter for the nail. feponar, .deindc- the same cpiftola in the corresponding numbers. in the cells next to the words 3c will dipolonet the names, and this too pad artifice will return impenetrable This arcanaj fbribendj. not drawn up by reason so long ago letters to me He gave Sereniffimus S. R. Prince Augustus Duke who and innumerable other ways- found the area- ntlfcribendiquos in beautiful Jlla fua Criftologja, fummo Principum benefit from the world; cni: f fld suff 'isi iqoiq ART. ITHMOLOGY T T T
oiuloqljl 2i. ii use d "O
Of Arabic and Hebrew numbers, m vft irK fi S7 i Hi c that I was
OJ&1 C A P V T -C-TI 2iaai. ;p hVroUigomi bv. yhl-, bv o: iJ. vt
secret going mode notice, which fan neither wit, nor ad- It lacks wonder, but only horror
they would not pollute him with destruction; number for dew which we in a square we drank the ternary beyond that yfitattsm us mode fic too I give they know
This, therefore, from the ternary con- i fcdum elTo see, fiue from du- fold the square of the other
so many numbers, which in part external, partly internal qua-. the wires will be attached to the sides fimQliiundi, because it will be clear to the examiner- And hoe I will conceal the seal fountain dilpoli they used to say that the wine was Saturn (of which more fondly in the following) because the name Jj Zahel (for Saturn is called this let them not appeal)
give, as much as the smoke of all the holidays, delight how you will get
one I hit: fummam, that is, you will bring. Of this Seal so Aben- the Arabs are busy son of the Seals a little book So this The seal, he says, is in the sides he has three numbers, who
nor does the name eofdemin contain fe, nant j gives j off
J, who adders make all sorts of adders. Cumma. From here I was led to vain fuperftion, figuranu they twist this into other forms, to which God's name whether borrowed from the Hebrews, they add side by side by the names of the angels for the increase of fuperftion Ga- V De S igillis
yes come on! yes yes yes
yes yes yes yes yes Michael Carrying this, I will do something from God to desire they want: preemiffa swearing through the image of God's name no they think infallibly from will be heard, about that which they ask And sorry make it is. , as well ingcnioftnrL. and arithmetical myths rijs so crowded dilpofi so much nonsense, so much quillilijs so many wicked people yurdilque luperftitiombus
Mifla has been for a long time now different from this having made a seal magic, from the Turks, the Arabs, and the Hebrews introd&a, in which it is not folutn in different ways in of pronic numbers they proceed with dilpofition Fed also Arabic words and the names and attributes of God so they dilop inside the square, as in the number ros refdluta, quaquauerlum added make the same smoke whose frequency are
to be angry Numbers A. rtci#
The sum vniufcu- -iufjue fereii The sum vniufcu- and a bunch of hay
JL The numbers of the jet Arabic correct fgBndentes%. , ioj
Summa-vniuft The sum of the two. . Summary to each ferki which holiday to every field
so areolas difpofitum vt string of numbers-# r who will be trusted efl: number Ma of God, great? at fuperftitiofbs the Arabs of veneration in gratitude And their device. obtaining efficiency
Seal of the ax from the name of God which characterizes him as liberal and powerful; refined into numbers how-to and the fumpticolle of the fummum of numbers to be given
qi d ample, broad, liberal (signific-at T conllitutum elb gives this refined into numbers that t nimirijttu Zuraia Monday, id Chapter will go straps: in Acoranoycr he has a shaft, each number mold orders with they hold
The fourth light of Sigi is in the name of God H attn7 which signifies a person who is in a hurry, conilititus
I will go on holiday.
Fifth The seal it is from the name of God 'Aziiqod signifies strong and powerful. conftitutunx. : this in gives the refined numbers for the clay order- bus I agree with all the names God's transmutation im. Seals, and smoke (they pay attention to the player, viz of the name of the God, by the number of the words some ca- pus, which they call Zutatas
tantqi Mabumed the whole of AlcornumSc his firfgtilas parts of this fuaduife number of calculations
with which see the fuse trailed in Volume Oedipus nollri Egyptian Clafs V. of the Saracenic Cabala Of the Seals But Eph the difpofition of numbers pronicorunu beautiful so I can also easily accept Latin names it is evident from the ineffectual examples
This is also the case with the Names of Jesus. MARIA dilponi polish, as the numbers that nominacon- they hold no matter how they are added the same fate, fa- they can The name IH20TS in: the numbers relibuted
gives The name, indeed, MARIA, gives a. . of that, he remembers The Sibyl divination of his name
What is the name of they gallop beautifully snow lefu? ra4? W. .
So you see how in each case ifophphia the same number mythical a certain reason puiciiris i. e
dem IfS' Of the Seals, We have lost our tongues to me, Magifter Fran- Cifcus Gryffindor another of this paradigms
By the names of JESUS and MARY no stoned here after the legend cenfiii
First is tx chapter v-13 the book of Exod. extracted V tSfnte I offer Do mme, which we
this one fenfurn pulled out. Send me a scent Lord Mef- let me become secretly quad am 'aljegoi ia inr. urs, Moicn, dum. hxedieret to IESY M to wipe out the Saiuarore, 6e verum- Refpexrfle the middle: for this I took Huma- whether the genus which was expressed by Ifivebtas, a ferocious you of Pharaoh, i-Lff, from Satanic tyranny, and that into freedom to restore the lilies of God But already mouse paradigm nton rihaf
cfl Send a scent, Lord, who you are crazy to whom shining text governed
Send me a scent, Lord Jesus Christ. but in every case the text follows i And their device.
I will ex-prove another v. ip. outside
the Notary of the Cabal took the form; , vbi- lapiens roads he wonders, whose quarter. rviri in. adeleentia Vti {he rides; noVya It's me in where some translators for expose the pure Virgin; fm unknown to the man. to whom you lean do it relpondec test
alluding to that, the woman goes round if Virgin Mary in the last Virginal luo He will conceive a virgin that is, Scripture and man; and of this man He wondered at the way Lapiens was going, ' while the incomprehensible of the Son of God in the womb of the Virginal Conception 6oiriprehend. ro no he wants
If the voice rtoby shave whole fcripferis refporidebunuj numbers by numbers! in voce" ano comprehcnfis, vt in Those. The paradigm is clear.
InduneraMiusnSethodi argutijVmefj rta paradig- but to bring the poem, 'Ied hacuriotfbriijus development let me leave j Why Hebrseprum in diTpolitione ditfd- rum numerqrum methodutn let's explain. . of the Hebrews Capability: none I'm pretty Arabs rA. rithmpma$ti$. Pythagoricse fimhe, omria fua bring, - tidris philofbpbrae, more truly a monument of fupention They filled up this time. For they had read ijfti much of the secret fima difpofinpne Aegyptjjs vfitata
and with their numerical conftitution myleria whence nothing. they did not act, as vt to be drawn
Nain cucrf. admodunr in no Oedipus Part. synt. de Gabala Saracenica, XI. we will learn about hieroglyphic magic, txcogi- certain certain and mysterious numbers, whom
they dedicated to the principal Lujs, in whose place worship of the Egyptians in the book of Mefh init 'Abenuafchia Arabs
ErAftt to the Egyptian priests [external number i which W they were consecrating 'Videlicet to Saturn IouiyAdarti y So iy FridayJMLercurio
mere Square root. Series. Slimma, of all. Saturn.
of them before root, square then, you will hit ad dita; , itimrna would strike, fic about the rest
Friday So far only Pythagoras numbers tribuifle said tur, that is, to demonstrate nothing in the nature of the world fe poilo it would be arbitrary For these, within the square, rubbish
like to strike perpendicularly, transversally, diagonally, where- in any way smoked, added between le, the same issue they would present by number, which in with numbers the third column is striking Vo- i6z Of! the seals, ' These were indeed called the Seals of the Gods; it is the same, prey of the wanderers, because fub ijsiufta by a kind of preemption of dominion, that of all expressed would believe They did not think that it would be possible to do so, no wonder why that force to the said geniuses attracting and it was of law make They would rule over the truth: see hxc. they would notice here squares of clay: one: with numbers to be added-, I took
The seal The seal: is pSi S him And their device Of the Seals
The Hebrews do this in this way: arithmetic arcane, r you do not count it sorry they were applied to amulets, but not to any one so a long time ago explain and mine: he deigned to commit himself to thinness from the great some of the princes we were proud of
It was iLlud numismat aureus, on the front side of which the Seal of the Sun is unprinted.
fpeibatura: indeed it is lustful on the side of the car, in which Genius Solis rode, as if he were going to pay homage Thursday various fymbolis adorned in: oppofita shape it is clear, whose we will present a little refinement
This is exactly the same as the Seal of the Sun ijs number smile
whom proceeding squarely money show off mouse: For the Hebrews instead of numbers letters because no
jUm now to the refinement of the Angles go ahead A square inscribed in a circle of which on the right side this name is read Nachiel, where The angel of the plendor fiue, or otiairu They note the intelligence of Phoebe: for this mod, an amulet carried, for the fulfillment of wishes be attracted f. bi falsely: they pervade
Deep down atre ha- blessed are the Hebrew words: yes, that is, they are U, Icihcet J. tero numerales myttena Genij (early with holding
and chain, mplica, by which I Chara&cre indicate the two-fold nature of Genius Ccrlellisat- And their device.
that elementary administration, fiipremus gifts nium, the chain of the folial complex of things. You are true contains the magical charade of fig T, in of which cxs tation of Ntomifma this to the influx was to be obtained. But the conflict Numii- but with this artifice, the fire is rather fuperftitioia ceremony it is worn by the Magi, the tefte of Abenpharag cast drachmae of pure gold and make of it a round plate I will give you the infallible tablet of the Seal of the Sun effulgent in the fua with exaltation, or with ridicule in its own degree, the nineteenth
degree Jrietisyfcilicet affine menfts JJifan: what do you do? you will fumigate it with crocus (it is a vegetable crocus (natural nature: ) you will wash water they are very rude to you: dij- soiled mufcus
which carrying her beari is believed to be his Abenpharagr power in these words He explains: "A plate of this kind will bring you good fortune. " born in all things s they will be afraid you all men You will get kings and princes whatever you want smile for you or by any messenger those mijfum, you will recover the animals ftj God will place a blessing in you in all things bad a. And: in the figure of the Sun i in the Sigil lo eiicsy that d be hit behind you must be big? dead He is called the creator light, perfect power glorious lives virtue s shining, great shining with power
But the Angels of the Sun become Anael and Raphae fejfieclus whom in the groaning of it let it be funny are made tt) Dc Seals "Yanitat e packed so as not to eqno curiofis fundulo fmy I decided to leave it with the support. In the prxlent Numifmate one just like that Angels
in the poor face is also added the name of Angel ViODt Jophicl; true with these names of the Angels fint
Nagiel for the Genius of splendor, Iophiel the Genius of beauty he pretends
Raphael, too, was a physician to another Sunday virtue, to whom prxeft another Schemfchiel from Solo they call
which; when in the Kabbalah of the Hebrews dump, then I send back LeCtor, . To the hieroglyphic v. ro I'm a fan that to the party inferip um it is, his interpretation this cfi. A car on wheels, marked by yellowness you grow: Griphus the car vehemently The all-pervading power of the sun, that head water the line with outstretched wings, suggests the strength of the Sun in Leo at home he had the best pot of wine: 'figure funny diadem mate crown ta, -Genius feigns a lola, whose do- minion adnsiiniftration, years Seasons for four numbered horses are distributed to all of them the result of the rim. On the side of this, Jupiter on the throne A winged eagle is seen flying, horned caught you where also to imitate the Greek louem foren-t Eft for fub fymbtdice fenfu Pan nil else, nifi Vniuer- fum, which was said to be an elf Jupiter. It seems even I was a car driver fe fe loui fiftere, .ceu fupremo controller of all things his wife in administration the corruption of things he will take But Jupiter is the same to fly away flaming, with outstretched arms blessing imparted see And their manufacturing
it is refinement of Numiffnatis. of this Gabaliittct fiue magic, with which the folita you stir them up in vain they promise me gold, the evil deeds of men, pedoradc with whom many adura see in Oedipus iEgypt: Tomo II. synt. XI. of hieroglyphic magic
P A R fiue, of the mysteries of numbers, those The Gnoftic Hceretics were the first for magical operations they were crying PREFACE
Only to magic, of the Gnoflis amulets perish m ammata feu Magic Seals to be explained I made it easier qut fub ipjis it hides things, names and the intelligence of others a little a deeper argument red information packed to be born It was crazy
t pious For in the same way the Arabs are prone numbers so flici aquali diuerforum names calcu I used a large irt Mysteries, fub if you are divine di Arithmomancy Jpoftivne the wrong side of the wire to be denoted they were roaring. But what is he pretending to do? numbers iVa4# what pro met, fuse in arithmetic It was partially expofted
wherefore to the infused let's move forward. Capt Of fuperHitioft. (Jnotticum SeElt origin y I must pray it is I am pleased more the first Chrilto starches, fcrum condirores who in the name of Cftriftiani once upon a time ma- The Egyptians swore by the devil's words.
natione. fuifle: And hofce eofdem gno- fticx- Aegytioruni, fuperllitiones, rites, , ceremonies from bad ris Devil rnyitagogoreuocafle, tefl: 3ntur abominable the manufacture of the same, magic skills? and- alu leave da fcelera. , quex. quamxampHiTkne dsferipea see at Irenxus, Tertullianus, Epiphanius, , Ehilaftrium Auguftinum Theodoretus, Baronius of others. . between But the Gnophtics who fe fe fe by this name excellent re- human and divine rum, than they were talking knowledge they wanted to say, the most abominable but the infamous Marcus the Egyptian necromancer mantle? note, 3c fpurcifrtmis, incantations detcllan so Bafilides; Magilter of luxury, cook dogma Carpocrates, Valentinus, and Cerin this of the Gnophtics. v the rite of the Egyptians, and worshipers of fuperftions and you will give it away} they named it is true because of that excessiveness, even those who you do Priapsis and Ihyphallius were said to have practiced monftruofa foulness, and ugliness for Aus hor- to be despised and abominated, be beaten the more you are proud, the more proud you are lust cx he will admit the reasons for his support: of which the fupra cited Read the authors, and them which of hifce in Oedipus Egypt Tiaco returns to Lintag. I. let's write it down. truth as Ledor the doctrine which they professed
reason Cacodr and a truer warning, more clearly than the fabric of the Gods he knows, from whom, as he likes to be told, I will order the matter
He did not luffkie the Gnoftic grandees of the Egyptians no mytteria Fed swift from the orc refufeirafle
Fed vt something great, new, exotic by the devices of pain, by which mortals are unwary entangle they smell they seemed to present to the world
more true Cha- razeriftik art, no from the Egyptians while aditis was recalled, fed ex Cabalists figments, nor from the Platonic Pythagorean dodrina each time fused with the principles, and ex ungodly the rum of the Magi fatal factory prompt lacimjs. they brought forth a hundred which profane, ungodly pies, religious fuperflitiofis, come the gift of the coders the texts of the Gentiliunu fuming with the smoke of dogmas
Names exodicprt. m refinement
At first, therefore, these did not have the knowledge: builders for the foundation of do&rinar fua; , tefte Irenceo, they put feu that Pythagorean quaternion they said, they called him AEATA-, because A quaternary at He became known as Crcecos, since indeed A is the wood of the triangle first, Hierophtans. Imitate the Egyptians, that of all they alluded to the three, how for the triangle is the first of figures, from which vti oniT even the rest? they are composed, so into it they are reinterpreted: this is the beginning of all things three, rmneprepatore and proarchen when, Greece just with Hebrxis laldaboth begotten of the Father they called the matter, and the same fub three, portentous no- minibuses Abraxas
which names, in with such veneration, he held it, vt im. by their magic tricks nothing more often, as a desire say tur, obium become Further through this delta come on
of the lens, Father, Truth. : and they are next to their smile diculam doffrrnam Aeoneslupramandanr propa- He was born again from that unspeakable group, another They pretended to get up and sit down Kbxr'u', this eftjferrno, life, . man, Ecdefia. of whom both letters trust so many that is, : how many alpha bc Gnofticorum
it has betum letters, Vti ia the margin it is clear. . Atqpe vtr add all the letters are arranged, so too the most important of the gods fub, human body smile shape members of the cast two tongues literature they thought, indeed, nothing else but hylaeps the lower worlds in the archetypal Ialdaboth. They hinted at the containers: , like earlier with Irenaeus. through see dad
human brothers body with hte- ns. everything, they all went together, Oa- om inis you babbled starch, which is exactly the same member T'. only board Syruph im TV
all those Aeons, to them they imagined phanatiGam disturbing to support they were bringing As while Egypt ex certain symbolis of the Gods nose, which they called j were made in Oedi after we stumble
so hofce Gnollici I was an imitator mm Aeonumcatenas were manufactured. . Therefore, from the double group rubbish attached pour o3bnariu$s It takes ages: be indeed. quaternion numbers exp ditch
in v-nuin you collect another will be found Aeonurna decas. , these io Ca -lis', whom they pretended to trust
JLx. Neck Shoulders. roof Sometimes Belly To be feared Foamora The knees Pipes legs feet Arithmoittantla Abraxas who
Exodtonario Vefcp gc liaternario a&litis it- it is a duodenary AeUfiiiin backs up
jd- elt, ogdoade, decade added between the Aeons arrive, as many as there are in one sign of the Zodiac foAcons
multiplied, they pray The smoke of the Aeons is there are, of all of whom the prince of ABPAXA2 d cebanr
of whom St. Hieron in r'Chap. Amos, these words: Bafili give
he said of the Gnophtics the head, the almighty God in the name of portentofd appeals and Eurydice Jecun- while the Greeks letters curfew number he says to be contained in the circle of the Sun, tquem. Ethnic fub with the same number of others they call Aeithram, that's true. a little later we will try to Abraxas and so on faithful to give fire to the god, to obtain Abraxas him whether, nothing something else dfc, than Aeon leu The genius of Tolaris ue, n Ofirim the Greeks Perfectly they said
him- as in the Hieroglyphic Magic of Oedipus noftri mouse as a great deal of the head of a fowl
lorica, and with good reason fortified, and not only formidable, under the names of IAO ABPAXA2, they expressed Subinie fub form Harnocrans iihonis lupra Batches were presented with the download JAQ CABA&0, which everything is more refined see cited instead of Oedipus
EPcj? Abraxas indeed yearly curfus. prsefidem,
for this vti be ashamed refined into numbers, it gives days of the whole of the year
IAO who? GnofticQrum
gems Aeo- Al) ravastot someone's nest analogous virtues was b certainly reach out etc. aphtrological by art, now fardio, or corniolx
to Topazio or Achati. fimihbufque against evil rum v whose Geftatione propU tij- infculpti by the influence of the god and protect the children fe futu they were imagined to be dewdrops It is true that none of them Aftroiog;
which are here and there are noftrodenlu or conie&ura, Let us be seen to be affreuifle, the sayings of St. Irensei to that commen- nSiedl' tators They say no He said here Irenaeus each of them Commentator Billius Abbot
ejfie certain, in- fubltmi Ilio fupramundano archetype, who does not blink I see nor 'voce 'vllamominan queatherfeSlum ftfi fupremumAeonem: to all prexi- becoming-, which they said; and: from: this r#fiue mind procefiijfefermonem life afo. w gawV, ex today Ecclefiam And let this double quatrain be original [football octogenarian from which, as if from a root, all Aeons to the propator-glass produced. they say: and: ex here I other Aeons whom from Fermon life arose and hijs: another
that inuifibde- pleroma impletiuum into eight, decade and twelve they imagine a long time
But Ogdoade was the mother of Acharnotlr. He created the firmament of the heavens, which Itenaeus re- cenfet Indeed, in the first heaven, let him be the prince
in fe cundo Sacham-, in the third the prince Seth, in the fourth: Daden in the fifth Elohaum, which is called Adoneus after Ial, give Der iiiation Arithinornantia dabothy tn feptjmo Sabaoth eonftdumt: Sabaoth
and to these indeed in- gentia, Saritati$ Sacramenta docuiile they seemed But not the names of the vfitators nift fuperftitiofa Hebnro- rum Cabala extrada fitnu IAO not nifi from the name of God in the Tetragrammaton, niif lehoua found its origin in contradiction and corruption, in which Ioucitl. they hinted, such as they would say Joua, or lehoua. Elchaus Adonaeus Adonai, as God the Lord iV: from him to the father Oreus from that Ju- Why Aeons Orphans fint didi
Altapbaeus a that which signifies to wash, to clean, the name he found And they call the leaders of the holce Aeons Ophioni let it be ferpentinos, because Ialdaboth was a fugitive order I was Aeon, whom they say is the most cunning trickster help the exploration of our secrets) curioftus infillenten-L. from heaven they bear the præcipitafle; from which he lusted z eun- dem Ialdaboth the form of the creeper, to fear group he put on the rice to impress. And this. pay all i Ialdaboth the Ophionian Aeons proceeding, is fer
futile pentines, which are in fugitives you were fculpturvl- which you do with a cunning habit with names they express and add to these the Archangels to be noticed; quies quidem hifce nil nifi or pho- nis struggle with Ophirides to be counted who does not he sees
V. y Seals. of magic, {eu Telefmatutmvx Imis The truth of the principles of the Gnostics is explained i. r. : one
Yes Stffii': d Vm from Diuerfisiara many years before this, he flours fuperftitiofa Breuia feu periammaia. ad. meutranf A thousand fints, the price of the work I paid for myself, let her do this instead of caution curioforum human beings the matter. For these are the disciples of the Magi of the Gnolls, various la- with stones and gems, for the analogy of things wish on the rise suitable for the opposite various bad things happening then to draw the hearts of mortals to their wishes; only
in the heart, now in the tongue, head, and eyes they geftate adapted
In Ruby inlcripta monftruola silly names, magical figure ruirL against all fiery diseases then to luck happy cititatem, Principnmqu e fauorem grace acquiring I'll give it a lot eat fibi they were spreading. Ad for many years
love positions, and property travel now GryftaHo j mode of Achaea or Amethyllus v Topazjdum
for virtue, with which the gem was believed to be polished, reason irt they struck
Ne- so 1'uperftitiofi men huiufmo- fanatics entangled in snares at the beginning checkered worse Let the serpent flee, the roots of corruption, as many have already done He was infatuated to do so I was to the glory of God, Sc I will open here the refuge of souls. Love overcoming gnolls their i B Arithmomantla Amulet (y nofluorum from Aiufeus Eminentiflittti FranJciCardmalu Barberini
First, then which, no so long ago to place the Eminent Francis Cardinal Bar- berinus from the fuo Cimeliarchius transfmifit
it is fruitful. which will be polished by a minute interpretation I present here the curiofd Ledtor: ih
%E-EEE MAXEt OV dear OPOMAZI CABAUJ&M JWtWOANBlFl!
The second face. 'HA rABPIHfr NE0P1HA ABRA fARCEAM ir py AIATYAAZOMA. AEHANAPON r f fj
Continued v. ijn f rimrjnK
EEB MAXEI OV CABAO0 BHA BAACOV- MHQ OPOMAEH CABAOQ MOIQT ANDBI MI- KAHA TABPIHA NEOPIHA ABPASI AKQVAAt- AIA4TAAZON.
Interpretation nubnciixi Zebasth Elati Eian Elan. Fight from Sabaoth BeU Balfttm. ith j Qromae Sabaoth, Adoicth Anubis Gnofticonte A
Eli therefore this klma become magic, potter in Sardinia a stone, which they call Corniola
to afcendente adroldgica arts ne quid- fail incilum that in the previous pmmfeu, ta, killing
whose mouth figwaitf: in the first place occurred: %ra ot odonis radijs confpicu with htens EEE. Perjferpen- theme the opium of the Aeons is noted as Lalddath, ocl Jao l Sabaoth, of whom a little was said before
octogenarian that feuJWs is known as the opium of the Aeons of which he was the great-grandfather and the head of the eighty-year-old that is to say, of things c
that you would charadere EEE fignihcanty as through call Ophionix of Ogdoad principal onion Zabaeth Elan Elan Elan, Lord God
God God bless, where known Zabaotb the same god with him whom I have stolen mine laldaboth, that is, the father of the father, leu Patratus
The fathers of the Gnophtics were dixlfle fupra from Irenxo we report
which he also conflates with I return IVIarchus one of the Gnophtics Coryphaeis fat with a ridiculous fane name, nor him together, because Irenams teftatur, Caulaucaucb vo-
cat, whose fignification vti to no one's fault inn. rae. n- tem came, so of my parts cry out thinking that fum i escape from the darkness. This word Caulaucaucb from Cabal a the Hebrews dumped Angel of light notes they derived it from the Hebrew text Cap it is said. IPLP V? ip YicVlK id send it Arithmomancy Commands expetta, reexpeSla
number form numbers corresponding to the content of the Name IESV IH20T2 the powerful, so that Christ was hidden by a certain reason ne, tametfumpie, of numbers go see the margin of appetite, of which the name of Irene con- how vberrime divergentum how viz Ialdaboth begat Aeon Caulaucauch Orimazjm
it will go to the finder of the light i how Abraxas Aeon of the year you grow prifidcm
I give of the heavens principal j pem Therefore, fate to be surprised I can't, what's wrong It has come to the mind of men after birth, viz. Icientiam ioo new from these things which; they are friuolte
so fubfifterto they do not polish, to crush the world as well is infected tk is awkward philofophary number
the names of the texts Holy Scripture; , etc to which you are inconsistent with the matter, no fint, to be ashamed; vt It is possible that there is no connection to fe ihoieem d that obtain certainty, the most important in numbers, lu good evils, nay, opposites fenfus easy to accommodate Eft hxc Cabalilla- IH- rum and the recklessness of the Cnoftic madness, what? i, OT2 ouid to prove their intent, de for sure iEbVS. (q, nc, or the rite of alluvion is little iolliciti, a (Swelling g as long as it is new
unheard of mm huiulmodinefcijs, for you lilfe to be seen polhnt, I will go The name of Caulaucauch is clearly revealed. What? for Caulaucauch to the divine IESV Name, or to textumiupracitau Ifaia: by numbers allu
cOO and let him have wine, indeed, I cannot imagine. nc e Rede St. Irenaeus says
satanic art ejfe, Sacred Scripture so many doubts and in such a way not yet adulterate fed reUe expofted to huge stories fuperttition Idols form efeffions
and fta your fragments, then to the errors I made in the firnpnccs threats By the horrible names of this kind of monjh from whom gan gift, then to some base fabuloft art reconcile I will apply the exijlimation. True with this kind of ai- We will pierce Oedipus with the cunning men, and with him the Hare we let go In the mean time we return to the foundation. following there already I will seal the words of MAXEI OV CABAO0, that is, fight o Sabaoth cieri uaiur with the word of the lamb OV c. to compete, to fight
defend figmficatOV BA C the same as the u vocatiiu particle w. What indeed per Sabaoth. tntelligaiur, already in the proceeding expoHtum futt
Se- just in the context of the words BHA BAACOV- MHO, Bel CBalfumhhyCpaz as well from the Chaldean VyA Bel, BAA in Hebrew ov. cd hya etfi voce atgyptiaea fumit heart broken
But they sign by Bel Jupiter of the Chaldeans as it is evident in the columns of Semiramide's inheritance
Bii A(Sq avi' Bejacis Ms that is Bel ir Briareus my father Jupiter the giant
For it is said in Dan. c. But Baalfumith is the Lord together it is said of their belt, Exod. that the name was empothecated cfl from the Hebrew Baal and the Egyptian smoke, by which name the heavens they note, and although these names differ, what do they sound like? re talmen nam undeor denote of the gods I was laldaboth-, vtifupra expofitum it was
To whom Arithmomancy OPO- MA2H ca- BAOQ To whom Sabaoth t (which name they often repeat God-i hosts of fiue. liellarum, the army of the heavens (as the Holy Scriptures say) it will spread to all the people
It follows then in the sculpture of the Seal OPOMA2H CABAOQ, Oro mazjt- Sabaoth, I explain what is meant by Oromazn
Oromaz was a famous Egyptian god, from The name Ichola of the Hebrews has a long origin obtains from mazjx ksto whose lips first fire, light, to find the other one pretended say rent KJTDKniK oramazjt, that is, the finder of fire v Se of light, all of which nicely do it Plutarch book, J of Ophirides Oromazn, says Aegy
they say that he was born from the purest light, Anmanium i taligi- Phn. ; fe c ne and to carry on a continual war between them I made the gods ond c Je Onmaen, Anmanium as much: Onmazjn indeed JeJe
how much; dterra Sobeji and adorn the sky, others further TDeos condidijfe in ouo pofuife, and the same number
Faelos from Ahrimanius, eggs tUud fortijje hence mixed goods. All these things that Ialdaboth imagine Gnoitic, the boundaries of the Egyptian myths are made of whom the allegory of vberri me ex kmbljcho exofited vfde Obc- lifco Pamphilius and Plutarch says cited instead
Zoroaften between Orimazn ftf Anmanium Alei- thram conHituife medium, whom therefore Perfa fteo-irnv vo- cant and taught him to appease, I saw the offering the manner and reason of sacrificing the rum to him this ear tend malx caufa mflitutas ejfe propbylaElicaf: ceremonies but in the quoted place of Plutarch Let Leotor see him
she of the Gnophtics. that i fupra of iMabotb He was Archtmoch Gnoftieo We have said rum, to be examined with laughter. , it is true to Gnotus this of the Gods compenet refpexftllc. Par by the Cabalite Gnollrci no tnaoo orro d eft "t out of numbers wjwtro
demon couple names latent clearly demon In fact, the when refined into numbers, is exactly the same I am presented, viz. v. inmargme he faces abundance of all things d Deoeman— shows how Egypt and Egypt through Iphide, and Greece, p
that in the Cabalic paleftra is Saddat and Mitatron, to whom to all Mithras vti out of these number- rum who- bus Sc the rest of the gods Io Cau, aucauch, Pl anatic names are confusing. It follows only in SigiUi Sciiptura MOIST ANBIpn by what names again fuperftitioms figmemu fe fe exenr, MOIOT velLs or contrade mophta dedudum water, 8c which is represented by numbers: the same elt that Genius of the waters, whom Obelifco Pamphmus knew Oedipus various in places we call it Momphta j in the winter and the best of the Nile, of the whole fecuncb- He was believed to be the prefect of Geneva fuse here We have taught him in books, which also I with the great Anubis Ofmdis. it would be difficult confused Egypt) It was au-
moiqt anobs What? twice Anu-
Why? i8a Arithnjomantia tem Anubis the same Mercury. , whom
they painted, that is, the canton head of TC I have a talent the vagaries of things ctnnium intelligence K K, l
human VitJe ncceWu m responsible was held, but this same cumpwiSefle schedule mafol. 2p4 Obelisk Pamphili; fat demonflrat Where Mercury can't take hold of my right hand, until he falls ceunaitenen, leaning on a crocodile is depicted
h Rum 'di Nilotic, 8c smoke fIue mom.
eiU! IP rad, s Ombolum, vri cited expo books we praise him; Ammon is crying that is dill head, the bee that is the bouino, whose each a mlotic vessel I hold the head to moisture protection, to whom both It remains to be told. I will go of the Roman Numismatics with a dog's head that Mercury, having been weakened by the same reason, as I said is seen
For he was faithful, tefte Piutarchus, niloticte motion symbiont, But now to noftrtim inflitutunu we turn back Gnoihci anger n j a fud they alluded to, as Laldabotb, from which MOIOX ANVJBIN that cft, from the divine vapor Aeon fW&A', prognath Tos Irenaeus a&ruifle reports. not to be taken for granted it becomes a wonder Gnofticos from the myfteriorurru of such horrible gods with the prefenes of the stories Gentile characters co-fufio lest, in so impious, tearful, and abominable to play let the prolapfos. Cradle and therefore the Gnophtics were infinitely futc he would be ashamed of the fiction of such absurd names; in fertile A seal on the face to cover the perversity of the mind
Ange- they produce the names of the Archangels of the Gnophtics. i8f Let the sacred names be seen in vain, whose first is KAHA rABPIHA, NEOPIHA the beneficent Geniuses they said, and the messengers of the great Ialdaboth. Whence the familiar name MEIKAHA, on the first face of the last seal biphyllabum MEIKA to be completed by HA. Michael Ire- nseus book fol. GnolHcos from opium to believe in the dance of the week he learns. Sacra auteirL. weeks there is nothing else but nets to whom so many princes chiefly
cry out but with a lerpentine habit, and with two horns which his Commentator Feuardentius in hnne place fic explains Styofuqptt, he said, Aiichasl& Samaei they express
that the magic of Jeduli worshipers magic fbiri they would abuse your names, among which they are not put my Micbael Samae, whom Camuel the Hebrew cant. them (indeed, from the ancient Hebrew fathers they say cepijfe, the planet was filled with as many angels before to whom Micbael
or 'Vt ahj Sun Wind Eastern. Samaei prafunt Gabriel d In Gvodice it is called the great Ialdaboth, whom Gracia they say, mimHer messengers. Why Michael? killing let it be said, he was excommunicated from Fuperuis by Irensus. Ialdaboth for the Poles smote Lucifer from heaven pnecipitatuiTL, , ipfe to put on the form of a sword he was pleased with me I was very happy, whom therefore we opiate spirit they call you, the habit of the ferpentine, on equal terms, ad form a day He wanted to impress the others, to wear them. It follows only NEORLEL, which name from Grao Hebrew No composed, of mental light heat pnefideiru what? no- Arithmomancy They note, what would you say? eVA: n for a V el wt merr tej rOTiN, V riel vero from or, or vr, that fire
light, and light it signifies, and by name He smokes a floodgate, Sc the same almost with Qrimazj it is considered Hofce finally what cornplernenmnu that portentous Abraxat of the Gnophtics was born, ABPA- ZA2 AK. OVAMNHP, of which already fat wolf fu- given away it was, by which the same gift of all goods the sun, light and heat they impersonate the doer, because ivy we said between floral deities Prince
of light heat influx everything inferior to animate the kingdoms of the world, to breathe to be believed
true indeed he of the Egyptians Ojivls, Gabulilfarum. A4ita. tr. on, I will do it, 3e Gragiorum fine Everything was entrusted to the god Apollo and Phoebus rlqno- Aegyptijs, Cabalic, Gnophtic, Greek I don't know one threat
me txpn-bitrum they collide just as the mythologists omni pus in the names of the old Gods, whose deailros I was They were injuring themselves with the names of the gods and goddesses They numbered one moon, of which see Obelifipaph. fbl. Finally, it follows that the epigraphs AIA- SHAASON AAEXANAPON, that is, the cuflodt of Alexadrum. Quifnara, indeed here Alexander was coniei'i'urare diffi- I will be quick. This King A prince, or a leader of war. be afraid, but it seems that those who believe in these things are not insignificant from the Gnoflics, the prxfidio of the names, attradlu, from all put forward the fortune of the weapon, by the geftation of this Seal, immu- nem fe fiiturum he believed Habe3 hsc Let-tor a few pro re- of the Gnophtics.
of things fub ijs- contents multitude expofininy first magic The seal To this exactly fimlc c ft that which Serenimus Archduke, I sneered at me
? 7TPPATH AKPAMMA KPAMMaKAM APICCCE TTENBAAOA PANTHu. BUY CEI AAMQBAH MAENI IMBQNAPOT ANTA M1XAHA AMOPAPA he DTAAZET MAIANS2
in fact the name IAD EL. they transform in various ways; and various body gels He pronounced it by way of oath. Snow that in this invocation of spirits ftif. us becomes de- fcripn, vti Sehaoth Ophionius exprefie BPA2AC it is called mefitambraxas, of which see what proceeding we said- the oath which fub hifco it is hidden in names, because of numerical reasoning, helper eternal darkness, than the light of the public conic- I took a
another Arithmomancy of others Seals explanations to be added Exifti we have grown: the Schemes of which are partly from various Mufeis
Charlemagne's men, of which he has a great (numerum) deprompfimus) partly to us from elsewhere to pretandi caufo tranfmiffa, here opportunely inferred we were: from which it will be plainly and lucidly evident, to the falcon of the Gnolls malcfanas findings no from another place
than from the gentility of the Egyptians even more pernicious, as much as the dogma of faith they retreated further Nothing is more acceptable and glorious than this For the rest of the people, they foretold the future of the people one of the hidden secrets of the Egyptians Chriffiana fi- dei myfterijs commiifisjnouam 6c monftruotam do&ri- for to the Genii and more truly to the Cacodamnons attradburru Confentanea conderey and uneducated: obfuscated by the people ris vmbrofirquemyfteriorum fymbolis repredentatam
to impose cleverly fraudulently thou art the minds of men, o peElora poop
of whom return the Gentes Ar nobius aduerius: be con- tempter who lights facrilegt by the inhumanity of Peter furious intend to curse the mind do not put any weight on them to say of the Gnofticcrum
he said, he betrays biforia, how nyeluti quidpiam amazing Commentaries contributed to the formula But hofce com- mentarios than fpeciofilTmiis decorated with titles: fj it who books would infer
another digital y rituals y Augurales books other commentaries the fire of divine things, religions, pontiffs ca- calium quxftionum, ajj other things. But as to the unfounded the Gnoftic thought that the great m natu- ra of the mysterious elf and smoke by virtue approx images transformed in a certain Egyptian fashion
fub with certain afcendent aphtrological venus magic art you can begin between foreigners are the frequency pnma With which Abraxas is depicted, a gem it is at Pignoria r in which Ierpens im interpreters; twisted circle, tail fuam mor- oSlgl give j within the middle of which flower god. . In the body of the Scarab, the funny fanS transfor- the wind waved you j Lunx, the same as the governor limit the light by which they called Ophirid the son of Egypt)
in- for they do not today known, the light of this world, from Sqfcu He who controls the life of the living creatures They tied the scarabaeus; because Scarabxus, abfolutiliimum the phoenix of the flowery god. . Horapollo also-a Lunx the wise man reports that, as Poiphyrius warned forming in the birth, the 28-day lunar period it will be fierce
True when hierogram of this Scarabxi how much more, both in Obelius Pamphilius, as well Oedipus Varus js; we are advanced in places, in that Lector rru we let go This, too, is a variety of effedus they fell with various stones, and they, like vahdtlii- I wore an amulet of power. . It makes me Sc of this make Nicholas once gave me a kidney stone Pereicius Aquen is Senator i inquo Horus, fiue Vriel intraBarin (it is nautigij fact i kind) rich, clothed in netted cloth Arithmomancy he rests, to whom the winged Scarabaeus fupereminct, fo vtraquo A hawk with the extremity of Barides, Horus indeed in Bari keeping this world silent fenf indicates bile whose mind Homs will go, because in the Hieroglyphic works of ours, we demonstrated next to the hawk head and feet affect tooth, from the rising of the Sun into the void forever you, in the lenfibius of Horus
the movement of the rent, by which the heat in everything members is infused, rotates
By Scarabaeus verb winged, not Solerm only material, fed fupramundane indi- they fit, of which, of course, they were hidden force influence, support Horo, all things are governed governed in the worlds by thunder behind you
Gnophticians when intended by The Egyptians perfected the analogy of the veil wax he is now in the fuam the workshop was translated, not taitL. a new way of philosophising, rather than impure, shameful. and the sons of the wise with the profane, the impious, the fabulofisquc I have meditated for centuries, a kind of fatalism cleverness, all impoverishment of the world
They follow only the figures fire amulets various gems most of the stones and rocks, of which first, i. e. in the preceding We have robbed you, man
(he is clearly a god, fcutica feuroque inffrfirn with infallibility a desired on the part of JAS dc ABPAiEAS who do not hit rooster Sunday
because it was hidden when bolej Shield icuticamqucj, how much damage he holds, he notes his ability to averruncatiuain, fer pen Gnofticomm.
but those who, in place of the feet, have hidden power and spirit fubftantiam, which he shares with the world
each throughout the world is agitated, and so much so that Pcrhe through by this Gnoftic they noted that They alluded to the fact that the god was born in a hidden way this gill no not even IAO ABPA XAS found they cherish This Genius, the Solar, is also within the Zodiac
the right ipfe was believed to be ancient, placed me rcperifle me- mini
For if ABRAXAS, I was spared more often we said, through the nor Arithmetic, fadam, vti often in the past direus, the same as Adithras, an oak they called the solar soul by virtue fua the whole year's curfew mode rantem y that ex. by numbers, who from in each name Afyafa, into numbers refb mud, because here it is clear from the side, and fatfuper melts. Both of them for the numbers are in vain fused to make of course, as many days as there are in the year. . All these things St. Jerome c. Amos confirms with these words. $aftlides says, no one knows the God of God
Sr iqt Arithmomancy support do not order this not nine appeals And the wombs of Graea were equally fertile. ft) annual curfew number
he says Sunday circle be contained which Ethnicifuk with the same number of others letters cant Adithram Hieronymus A therefore no This is another thing, than the Genius of the Sun auerruncatiuus, that rays of the head (protection fate oiled in didn't flow- the fire how stones divers they fell
joining as his by name, and that neck lulpenlam on the contrary
In Ruby for this omen in- inlcripturn with shape Magic meeting heart some diseases was carried
others all this time also good luck here happy they weighed the state Certainly I hardly doubt that the Amulet. this is to fan the Hemitrite, in which I am bound must to the precepts of the Magi Abracadabra, from Abraxa pri- mother flowed
for the name veltiiia clearly they offer: and this made me most fuadenttot eea7 gem? elements the same sometimes repeated inferred, of which you have plenty The French Scagheri Epiphtolisad Vazetum. Nor of late he is among the Magi remedy mentions for Serenus Sammonicus this song
As a magician, he further defines the elements of the jiguri Each of which you will seize the femur, and fix the wombs
Until the letter of the cone is reduced to an angle H i6 remember to redeem the neck of the linen ties of the Gnophtics.
About this by name many toys you will find it at Serenum-. Samoniat, many everywhere here are the words into form triangle the hearth, do not do anything fupcrftition- fails I find it suitable it becomes so certain, 'Fiigiators' Ifthtec Magic bar
bara portents rather, when finxifle names, great fuper- inculcate with the cilia, to stir up the fimlic mind, with a great swell they would think they were more audacious, which they were not in- they would understand, Daemonefque to them with paddles, which The Magi were lusting after them, they would prey
Another Amulet (contains a clay pot what tor i the magic spells of the Gods, Ifis, than any fire A bucket, Siflrum, the fpicated head of Serapides, whom bring pens, more in head, Tuesday
6i Friday, how They indicate that the pots are facing each other. And the amulet it is against poisons, filters themselves, because Leo nard Piphanus book Stone carvings, indeed not the dung and the other, which proceeded from the Gnodic fchola
fcd 8e now IAO, now 2EBAQ, now by other names, as in the sayings Amulets to see it is they called
This indeed no- What is the threat? they will pretend
Gnophticians nation Egyptians, the first religion of the Hebrews, Durru the power of the name of God tetragtvammati from the ancients re- la- ABRACADABRA
abracadabr abracadab A BRACELET ABRACAD ABRACE ABRAC open ABR Arithmomancy they would know to impiety complement then
fuperftitiofa fua names with the name of Iafi SeBAO that the same it is nobody lehoua mya Sabaoth, but the smoke of names corrupt they needed All these things confirm frequency Amulet in whose First of all face man it is given to the Gauls crifhti face
if fcutica well the flrudus, who at last goes on his feet, head but he did not know this men IA9 is put i which, however, in the majority of this kind Amulet is based on the fault of the sculptor, or because The seal was whose are inerfe red fpedentur Wherefore portentian by lehoua, by the face and hair of the Gaul, the Numis of Solar nis potcftatem by fcutum of the Gnophtics. the abdication of others covered by the fattu of Tuesday They denoted the effulgence of March
In the future there are bxc names infculpra IAO ABPAaA2 that is
But in the figure which is represented by the number met again at first sight the same Abraxis shape
the names of the mighty Angels in the face of the latter veto Sichaei Galnei, Vriel, Ananatl, Proforael
indeed, the same figure (I cut the name IA-u unintelligible it is on the other side of this the words are taken ygjptiaca, TAAA APAIH SAP PONTOKONBAI, )d is in the Egyptian language Jummo Tuesday, all nineteen.
the same figure cmm- initiation part later nrANTOPIKTA, id it is of strength
figure Arithmomancy it is considered fiera, with this inscription IOTIOT S2IOTNT YOON2 DNIOT, id cfl the Lord's fortitude fub at the feet of the angel IA2AIHA laoliel, that is the angel T)omini
On the reverse face, an ibis is depicted in a flying habit. tis, entwined with fierce two-legged to whom Anu a dispute with a coward; which: they denote nothing else, the power of the snow I will abdicate the court of all harmful things. This is true fymbolum fill the hole shape
she- it seems that the figure which the fupra expreila, fub whose foot putting the bus name IAO by hand fatua: geniculata: , by which infused Martial God in v geftantem this the amulet is denoted religiously, more truly fuperftiously tatum: in the latter case on the part of Leo you cry around with the help, one with the figure of the Moon: a swordsman is imagined quo Sun in Leo exiftente y vt cftcdium, feptem iiu
It is indicated that it must be done. In the fifth scheme, the same figure occurs, with this entry, H$EON, which Abraxas is one of the Ophionian gods from whom but a little before, vti from you We send you with a hug, they define But about Ab- May these goddesses now work under the amulets of Mythra fire
Let's proceed to Harpocratic amulets of whom no minor variety met in the old days indeed is found Wash it under tooth, finger feeling with the other hand with the scourge and the names 2ABAO, Sabaoth vt is evident in the figure marked p, in whose on the political side the name IAS2 appears to be registered
where: om- nia Solare, the god of avofwajcn, and great: effective def they know
I will figure it out who is done in front face He demonstrates to us the same Harpocrates, the former phymbolis steal him, IAQ CABAH inscribed with the names; in po- the patch, on the other hand, is partly worn collpici there, with two swords, with whips, and I would have broken in, like us H ecatcmSuit 'Diana or the triplets interpret-
the wall. But Virgil was a coward. Georg. do cet Arithmomancy
Priest The three hundred thunders of the Creed Gods, and the Heretic, Chaofque,
And Ouid. iib. Meramorph. ervito w three vergentiaformas, He should keep his internal compitafacia lias
bacchante with rows of hands heads attributed to the right horse, finish the tail of the Dog, the middle of the Boar Euphebius
Iib. prepares, ch. Hecate the Moon, because of variables his formccsy of the body &forms j therefore his virtue cfl triformis, bearing ISIouilunia white clothed with gold diHinclam, lamps burning
A basket but really brings efl two days growing light, crops ma j plendunijfignum eHrugineum fandalium
itL at the first sight of which Harpocrates trusting Lotus, the whip of the Gnophtics.
He holds the fmiftra, the right hand indicates the files, to the root of the jbot A watcher running with this entry ABPAA2 It is SISIPIMjid, Akraxas all oVr, quo Solis you want fingered
By Leo Nilotic increase they understand the Prefect of the mind, which is fittingly this fire a dog with a lion's head unpolished they note for the rise Dogs, Sun into Leo entering
the inundation of the Nile, the Solar God Harpocrates with a whip repulsing all the Bebonian force. Note here CIC1RIM retrograde order led MIR1CIC, the same it is like Mother Iflde fiue Luna, which in this the amulet silently needs, the Genius of the Nile, co-operation Trix of Harpocrates, the solar god
In fact, the par- he holds the Amulet with these names inferred: APSEOIAfl MEPMENNH, principle IA8 cmna Furthermore, in Amulet number r. with wood, it is different shape At the end of Harpocrates cheap letters, however, at will part-? the following is held Egyptian inference
where this words: im Such are the things that come out of the Devil's kitchen brought forth by Pny- I would hit the tiles next to the numbers. Figure i a. two f cies contincr, i n at first sight it seems a naked winged figure, modio which is the same. and great v-r
Arithmomancy on the head of the confpicua, on which he would support the staff, and on the skin below (c. with the name IA8! ie inerfis, MNHSIHA Mni- xiel, the genius of virtue he pretends, as his fymbola in- they will say: naked give, to his fimphcity; has wings, ad speed He wears a measure on his head for abundance. what he contributes, to be told. Four supported by sticks VtVCtKOfAOptttQ,
aci's mastery over the four elements of the world is This therefore remember the God they lust after them who they called it
The other the face contains figure hu- mana transformed into two dog's heads pal holding the mother in her right hand, fiellis circurndata. ru
lower than the velvet man stealing from the mound is drawn up by which nothing else is judged
nifi Anubis feu Mer- the court of Plutarch, and both of Horizons hell I cut off the tusks, and therefore with the two heads of a canine; pin it is here the same of souls from Hell reduced
from God it will be written down because we have refined it elsewhere; hence palmarru vicloricX fymbolum gelat He flame
by which it is indicated souls from punishments pcrlolutis at Inforas finguf-as
laugh at himself soon to be found. Figure gnata Serpents feu Afpis elt whose head ra- surrounded by a cloud of clouds
who mocks the Mercurial God, as from the unbounded letters appears, where we read ANOTBEI Anubis. XNOTMICPI but it is a name, which washed away He does nothing the same name Xe' he does
Vi- therefore give me what I have done, how impious the barbarians this ways by the names of the gods Chrysalis name Lerctieo- They profaned the century.
Innumerable iiiperfunt of this rare n myths to be explained by which: nevertheless to bring there would be nothing else how this book ungodly toy of the mind to return
biceps with two Geniuses ivy canals in pairs you are busy Nilotic blowing fpe given whose history see in III. Tomo, Syntagm. of Canopus. Amulet it is gone
I4H0 with which the hawk, with its tines' horns, sweeps the flower the forces of the ftipatus, the benefit of fertility and abundance:
Mars rose in bloom it sucks hafta and fortified with flowers, the roots of the flower ba: mercenary God? zoz Arithmomancy by means of firming; by which the fiery power of miftanu is indicated wet, to promote every generation. in phma
Jacie figures. is Harpocrates, dressed in the habit of March above otumfedct, adinfiar boats. formed with a whip
face srttyTS Darmon, four wings; unbroken I will go in each hand of which he has a staff, and a dog at his feet to the tail of which ftella, and indicates Mercurial- A god of Egypt; they call the name of the first &AAHA moist the second genius of God; genius Scafleclamnotat. . Fig. i Figure number is attached to the eff Apis what to those in; Bembina's table fxpe meets y tftque figment Roman lowliness of the Egyptians, efForma- then, Gnoftic,
then, vt liter# Latin LI, S teach and freedom or the safety of children.
Eph Ophiri carrying a basket on his head, in his hand Cucucomorphus with right staff beach gno admonish, finiftra cross drawn into a bifurcated form, geftans, marks the Solar Deity, by Accipitrinus ca- put in fignificatum, as we have already learned from Eulebius, He carries a basket on his head, the abundance of which he brings
fymboltnr, scepter Cucuph# He notes that his head is stuck the variety of the things which it produces, the harmony of the shore-j Gnctron is the phymetry of things which he accomplishes in the world The cross was taken; evan he wears a thong By the Spirit of the Sun crawling twisted, with two horns
fig. notes. Amulet-.
it is Of the Nilotic Ophirids, and the Numismatic figure of the Lion in made by a vna in part
and he showed his head elle the Sun entering Leo, ad to flourish the god HELOY to attract
everything Oijtrintoncrn. ii oe bus injuries, the same thing Numifma- Dedicated to the sun. Arithmomancy there is nothing else, than the square of the penny number, from ar- professional difpofiti, vt you will hit the fingulx of numbers diculars, tranfuerfe, diagonals fimul jun&a? , same produce a number, True when this figure is large the polished lime is made in Arithmetica noftra hieroglyphica, with Hare we let go. Yftcf marks the triangle fiery Note Le&or, don't make a fuss anti when fed to the later Aftrologists
there is another Numus in which the former face wolfishly smiting with a terrible thunderbolt T near which the Eagle fo- his character, his name in the Kabbalah it is Zadhiel Wptir For the Hebrews call louem pix, that is it is the decision of the court, is here used corruptly for Zadkiet Satquiel. Above the louem figure Sagittarij is used, that indicates that Jupiter thundering Nurauna, the Sun in Sagittarius blow the tail of the taro; the back part of the Abacus bet d is filled with pronic Hebrew letters, nothing else xndicat, nifi square quaternary difpo firum, viz. , the numbers indicated by the letters, whatever they may be Icrie jun&t fimul produce the same j square, what of the Gnophtics
part of this tutorial the mouse, where you find all things cxpofita fuse. Hebrew letters cae ho& express numbers, vt a it appears on the side
wing exactly it is what is done; the first of which the face contains the figures of the planets pifcium figures in the middle which is shocking
i Numurn cufucn fiiifie big by the union of the nets, fate in Pifcibus, an abacus made of numbers In a flash and the moon in Leo conftitutus, that quaternary j; clearly teaches the square. Others could be brought here. Amuleta gyptio-gnofiiea-, with the help of which, however, A mouse. The figura feques marks the three Graces, which are before the gate The temples of Ephefinus were polished Some other Amulet Schemes, ex Adujais cotlefcla) at this point exofita
Numero (unknown to Ifis the heavenly Afipide Accipitrifbrroi, Lituo Baculoy zo6 Arithmomancy xl
Amulet Iliac q'i. r omma become refined elsewhere
Se- that God Typhon is exhi- betjhmc Crocodile infiftjt, pifcem iUj he carries on his head; both of which Typho-
indicate your activities. Cis tower ieu Cybele xEgyptia, with two falcons, Solarius Money fymbobs at the feet of Serifius idelt, a plant Abfymh. j manni, by which Plutarch teaches Ift Sacru fuifle the arms of the half-century composed, as indicated, nothing in- let the nature of things be repeated, that i pfa not completed there Numus contains three figures: the first is efi cum utulain with the right hand, and fiflro in- with his hand, modio in head
where: everything is refined in the first place mo TomoSyntag. III. ci. de the other He went to the Nilotic God I am born
cefco what is commanding A child in the middle winged make up
r r. prays both fm that Genius of the whole the greatest
nti t4v. bi 's, with the shape of a triple thunderbolt, homi- nrm even through of the Gnophtics.
naked before him prostrated, with Cancer; football Talifma Aftrological Sun in Can- cro Thursday hour
by which football intelkdus if ho- nores, gestating that faith would obtain a Mercury If they thought loue a lifma feu. Camea is of Anubis dex- staff
It is dedicated to Mercury; by which creativity bad rum profilgación fibii fpolorum, they owed Camsa flue Ta- It is the Canopic lifma, protected impressive, of which see abundantly. traftatumTom I. Syntagm.
I1L Gap. of Canopus contains IfinMcmphitica, and with which letter H is wooded, fequens y lfiderm Bari's bar
of which see which; in the Egyptian Mythagogue from Plutar We have brought various things to this study concert nunt The Amulet of Ifis is against diseases of the head cu: jy you looked naked inferius truncf, armes decuftatis, veil lpeflabilis, in Arithmetic myflena of this iigurf whose fear birds virgin fsicje& loco alaruai ractions who is defending, with the right hand of A holding j means exactly the same
how The Zoroastrians I will vo- cant, Agathodaemon fupe of a higher order I will be naked because comprehensible to the mind it is Vti After Zoro teaches; whence -for the same cup below really cata fpe&atur, because no his untrustworthy in the lower world ftigiafiintj variegated veil give, because its variety in the wolf to the world foal it shines
arms it has because the tenfold nature of the whole? it is to define; He wears it with one hand, because Agatho- she marks the demon; The peddler is assigned to the human bird face branches spreading his wings from side to side
indi- and the cat intelligence To the ideas of the fetus, which au communicates with the lower worlds. Where? everything fuse al- see legacies in the Sphinx Myphthagogus
Of which already Didfis shines brightly Gnofticus I learned all these fanatical delusions from the Egyptians fi Ledtor it when a little before the Egyptians letis re&e he has contributed; fed 6c names from Egyptian The Hebrew language is confused and corrupted fat manifest
when it becomes the property of this kind of devils, ad ears to fifty of the Gnophtics.
whistling in {sharp you were to be slaughtered by the wicked ifthax barbarian how the cold and they resounded, no- threat to horror fimul) authority you do with ciliandum, vfurpare, vti he teaches beautifully Irene book about the errors of the Gnostics Nicctas from Jrenteo fuse leads. The greater, said Nicetasex Irenso
those who is baptized I would like to let them inject this Hebrew— names befama camofi, bne, anoora
myfadia, rhuda, cuftaba ipbogor, calathi) quorum i This is the interpretation, who art a fool of all virtue three, we invoke thee, who is the light wild good ft) life naming, since in to reign in the body Ha? c Niceness It will be very difficult vt which reselt hides, of words that- to indicate the sources of rum, for neither fub ijs
no one very corrupt, viz. phegor -ms, vefligium HebraH fermons it is clear, neither Chaldaic, I find very few Arabic words
Exile therefore from the pasture of the Devil, ad stupidity au- trust to be thrust into the teeth he. Magicians for- monftruola find words and songs with the help of Cacodxmon fe Furfurrafie himself, to which pradligias be amazing energy
they were brought in vain, ex you do profane wild by going to the sheep in the confello His meal: it was quo- which one
chap. Irenaeus of the Gnolls impious it refers to the states, where the name of the Redeemer was hidden fiction they are profaned Mejuan is in a frenzy in fcencbaldin mofo tneda ecacha JarcnepJeha i eju 2V a zjxren e
I do not divide Christ spy A rhythmornantia Spirit i heart and soul the unity of heaven then confirm but you the redeemed will answer: I redeem the soul my mother ah this, ft) of all ah they are with him in the name of IAO, who redeemed my soul: who also I don't know what the Hebrew oil is so corrupt are, vt for barbarians Sc portentous names nothing 6c to deceive those around Ctis, elTe certiflTtmum becomes This also impiety to criticize the country most of them are stones, gems, and the names of the last number inlaid with small metallic pieces: ex with which they elicited a number from one of the Aeons, or The correfpondence of Priapus, or Pompis, or Paredris. for the Gnophtics attributed everything to numbers, the falsehood of faith, the analogy of numbers to demonstrate pull they believed luperftitiofius: Whence the Monadis of that dyads, triads tetrads, pentads Si octogenarian for digiola Sc fanatica in Deaftris feigning, fettering
which You will see all this in great detail in Irenaeus instead, which indeed are appropriate ijs, which; of Ephephy letters They are told by the listeners.
Admonition to Lcdorero )g numifmata iRggumque, which of Gnojluorum They are seen as literate. He did not behave so long ago no one mmtflma di- ilkeratura infcriptor of characters, which; don't Jeio, whose king was from Iberia or take him to Carthage bat of the Gnophtics
bat When, therefore, the various names of Cx Gnolhcae doitrinae fu- they would be found in it, peledile, impromptu, I, distraught art revised rules, I said that they were from their Gnoftics mere, which are called periammata and amulets, eiie. fue run some among others who is mine interpret finirtr accepted, not a little among the inexperienced things slandered have been I will not tell myself whence fa fe interpretation may seem impofuifle, this instead Ofttimes not in stones Colum gemmifque, huiufmo- let me begin the magical literature of names, fed St innumerable gold and silver, copper, lead, for the analogy of attracting geniuses in another way fa imprelTaque fpe&ari, also of that King, who gelh- bat, imprefsa vna with the name of the portrait. Whence open my It is not uncommon for them to be ignorant of things abtrufio judgment, which they do not understand, mata prxter name of the king, no other mylkriofum conti- they are supposed to spin. Miflu it was last year at Mej Vienna coinage of a certain King, in whose first face This literature was seen in the king's burgeoning MX which name a u note that Michael Samuel, from odoade, vt ttella notes, ophionia deprompta, vt expofuimm in the preceding hgill, the rest names (eount
INTPIXIA2IMI nZIVPANIHA Twenty-six IXQON XVP IPVNIV MIXAHA adfiftat mihiOlLiO VPANHA borrenditf Vramei prxjta Adichacl. INTPIXIA2IMI (Egyptian word) Self acfiliercj pretends, vt cx nollro Diftionario Copto patet ziz Arithmomancy the same as San&us Vraniel, who is called the genius of heaven: YINTVX as well as the Egyptian word elt, Schorrenduncu pretends. IXQON An Egyptian genius, of whom many bus places of Oedipus Obelius Pamphilius
IPVNIV M1KAHA. XVP the same in the Coptic language, notes that the first, IPININ peace Michael outside that next to these two names are considered TIXI, and NIKl, id it is Fortune Vi&oria This, then, is the King's name A feu caliph of Egypt whose name was Hali gefhbac video luck in his actions, with which to be obtained by war. The fchema follows. It was therefore of the old Kings And the hero pro- first, by the names of many barbarians. all things done to adorn, as well as for a certain veneration re-
gis to be won over, and to the geniuses of this kind minibuses to be drawn, .potiiTimutn inftifuta Or not in to some of the numismatists of Alexander the Great, the name Ammius of the Egyptians the deaf, because of Hammon fe born do you think we see a ram's head confpicimpolite? Are not Romanor Ca: larum numilmatis pafiim Bac- He, Venus, Apollo, Mercury, etc. no gods do we see the menaced? do not do otherwise line, no matter what er huiufinodi among the people k ijs or fuppares deraoltra- rent Gnofdcorum
rent, or excessive with ambition in tranfuermra adu they would sell fe for ijfde, as we read elsewhere of Heliogabalus
those to the gods and pla- canda, then to propitiate C-efares of the god's mats you were im- first (they smelled, that declares fate. What therefore it is lost fi Rexquifpiatn liberus, or of Carthage give the same name le, false deities mythically express
pciiJyV vna di Carthaginem, di Gnoliicorume god Significance of the numcro- rum is clear, as from ibid we taught numbers. And so they defend the uninformed esteemers of things to blare against those who inscribe the falsehoods of the Ancients lest they perish, in the manner of letters and words fenfu content Several of this kind add instead I will drink wax fed vt tempori di fumptibus-parcam, I took it to be omitted, and to Gobius, Walter, Au- Guftinum, Paruta, and other numismatists Writers I am relieved, among whom he calls a great number of sons and mash is found
let them draw a day inexperienced the judges of things to bury what they do not judge, and skin He was tempted by that vulgar skill, so that while he was next to him Locmanis apologizes for the bees of the spiders, for these dunv lest they attempt to accomplish the summit of pradumptuofms, apuvn stung with thorns, let the punishments of recklessness play out. But these things to go my defcnfton is not so expliealfe, than indigitaffcj they are only busy let us return uninitiated
Uterus sheet They were Ephesus luene if can zxi ituminanua catkins, to which some of the "barbarians" Sc porten- with many names, or atone for places infefta, or morbcs they were driving away, or they were swearing by demons. They say that Fphefue, because Ephel first ab Daftyl ideas fint they find, 5c Diana Ephefiae infculpca with the fimulachro
so Clement's book i. Strom. Plutarch in Symposium she- He mentions rum in these words: tPufinifyufyxi pdyu 2e EVsVics y oaaixaist. avfxS Kcc(stifny
Su- by obfeJ? os d Demonibus- the Magi Ephefta grammata repeat they ordered him to name Taret. But the etymology of them aflt gnat Eufbthius in these words: tzmPaj,
y%upptflot Ephesus in- there are chants by which some of the great dangers they are used, and brought back their vices. I will give the voices in the crown
on foot Ephefa maticA) 'whence ijs who speak a little differently, say tur Ephefa
He thought Ep. hefns letters enchanting tioxits some effle difficult which Craefum on they say
you are playing Ephesus of the Olympians 6c Milefius was to be mooned, and Milefius did not want to be played which Ephesius writes Ephesias ankle bound would have
when the matter became known, yidorem from which thirty defeated fue rant, you betray the letters fuccubuifle To whom alfipu-ajtur Dio- Enian
incl yfwppuTa ivu? af TMf iicrav clo-Txrt QuwtMTtg WtKoov 7ravlt
Otia- But what kind of names from Ephesus letters combs they were, Hephychius indeed delivers low frequency: which. polite the laws with other unsolicited Authors:
indeed it represents the same thing as darkness Cafaski is the same as light, the same as jpfum- the rest which are made
Hilce it matters Zonaras Conftantinus the Great, Zambrem Hebrew he said ear bull infuifitrrates
suddenly I gave back to you dead; whom then Pope Syluefter in the names Christ he refused Clement of Alexandria betrayed
he refers to the words in a slightly different way; I have done book Strom talk there: Androcides certainly wrote Pythagorean letters Eplnfutlocum he says of tenerifymholorum, but to pretend darkness indeed that they do not have %tTaVxioy but the light, since tdujl vat I wonder
but pr ijca appellation eli earth 7i a id e i? , four- nario year Because of the hours, but daprapiv&f ejt Sot because he tames all things
a} true voice for her It means au- make him the of divine things He who is the son of darkness is compared with the light, and the Sun in his chariot year, and the earth with the generation of every kind of nature: ex barbarous names, which were The branch of the Vates Milefios d is called cxpiaffe of fame; those nor a multitude of laurel branches singing, hymn he presides by saying, pronouncing the words with a kind of beard ra, of which you will find an illustration at Clem Aie xand. lib. from the fromatum where 'Bedy says to make water Zapsmzxz earth, Sun, Sphynx the framework of the world Cnachbi ladteum nurse men zi6 Arithmomancy of the Gnoflis
chin Finally, drops represents the word effcax. Ad Ephesias Iitcras all those portentous names from Magis brought forward to be called back which was born in darkness, in They are brought forth from darkness into darkness, as it were light let us leave him undignified in eternal darkness. part
Of Magical Amulets l6v. Capt
Ilee to be reckoned with merit pop Seals magical, where? by the wicked tetanus? leaflets? the magiftros, the human race is pleased in this one and not to introduce a date he sneezes
who- be called a bus barely can quantum vanity let them fcate, how many impious blalphemis 6c facrilegijs, not my- ftcrijs packed fint however you do names di- with one impromptus, ad paint to cover in- let them be bound, yet what is barbarous is hidden tetanic
I don't know that murmured magic fub fi- dtis, portents, nil lignifying hidden in words then; a great number of whom did not anger me for a long time Miffa was they must be recognised
In which nothing to go the speaker met, than Pentalpha Hexalpha; cf but Amulets;
but Pentalpha is nothing else than a linear figure in why that A didu&um, to whom Crasci it is a waste vanity expressed which Antiochus flag im- Hexaipta in the fomno of Alexander app parent, soon admirable from Ga- having passed the vidtoria reportaffe of the Magi finish they sing, and with it like smoke: happy quoting the lymbo in you were nonsense
Horrible voices again? and with mixed names, a knot whom they call Solomon attached everything full crosses variously transfer formed inferred fpe&antur
Devil however covering tree they are passed: no seal of any kind so a long time ago tranfmiilum it was in whose circumference circles hatred Seals are placed bearing the names of so many angels. The seal Indeed, Michael's lacrum, a figure of Iapides, 8e pentaalpha. He seems to be unfaithful ftolide on the contrary stoning even productivity they promise
thrust in with a knife; against which caution knives if you Dasmon promises I will make the third seal Raphael
cnfe with pentaalpha inhgnito, ipfis against the end ras fecurita Ipondet.
four Of the Magicians The Fourth Seal Gabriel's wise man done under gnitum, against the chest of the chest to be done do they believe The fifth seal of Catfiel's wizard, which Angel or Cacodxmon becomes the name, I do not know: this do at Cabaliftas Gaz. iel, denoting the spirit of destruction ri. hoc therefore they pretend I fell a figure with pental ph, that he had a great force against the phallus they tell me The Sixth Seal Sacchieli's corruption from Cabala the name, the basset, was introduced against them to live to obtain it is supposed
The seventh seal of Samuel the wise, bipennal intruded with a knife, against his proddfe there
Odauum Sigil of Daniel the wizard, with a staff of fire fuile intrudum, on the contrary silly beating
it is to be believed, they think that it is a powerful protection. To whom he fell there were words of every kind on both sides, beard profane.
porterhouse, diabolical what tamctfi hcbraicum quid they should, yet they are so corrupt, by right nothing pretend with songs let them be enumerated
For this is proper Magicians, you make profane so to imitate, not even a stool an entry, which was called by the names of the barbarians like plurimurru is hidden a black tail with a shiny body let it be revealed
But this is the deception of Satan be clearer first a prayer, rather an exorcism, a conspiracy tion, than in days the facrilegi of the buiuunodi of the potters. the architects, and their geibtors vt effedus let them be strong to do they must In the deity Sancifime Indi- Ul Amulets ifaTrinity of the Father ft) FiUj& SmUiconiuro rvosyvel all kinds of arms the rest, however, which: read words and names are used, because they are full abomination so as not to strike the ears of the piofu violently, proposing give no I liked it. Let this Eedtor see the wicked Satan: cunning theme, how at first the shadow of the invocation was long nobody Sanfliffimae Triads, Sanguinis Chm ftj; then prorms facrile abominable named na barbara, the miracle taught by Satan to the worshipers, they are forced to speak; through which it is unjust into God fi- just smoke perfidy, to the good pleasure of the Devil
all the names of this kind are here silent Dgmonio trust the invocations of the Magi, out of deceit, of Solomon, as they say, three times Demonolatry, nothing else enter fe hidden ha bent, fummo with the best God's mercy torifque with contempt and reproach, who only one Satan is a master in this crafty art. What really let them secure so many figures, so many monftruofa names, so many to accomplish the intended purpose numbers
sure nothing to thee: for since I was of nature from le vtpoie poP fibbles qualities, none efficiency natural ha- beant, vt conftat from philosophy; prof&o fi some it is finished of virtue eff&us I said to no one to another how Satan's power is certain to be obtained it is That equal in peace Magi square Hexaalpha inferred
when Of the Magicians with the names I did not float from the fatal factory deprom ptis infignito, Sater, ArepoJ'enet, Operarias, ineffa- to carry out the secret bilious fe they boast mere devils legal I'm pretending it is
when hereafter names inftindtione Diabo- He was found by Magis, and not at all have a figment, not that from retrograde order
in which the same through the clay widely ra recur, nor phyfi, - cam, nor morally restrained. as Satan ex when he entered the field, he wanted them to obtain inefle. Fruftra she who makes names I am humbled by the mighty names of God pronounced, with as much force as the difpofition of those truths into God by faith of the pronouncer, and no other by adding neanttfi&a vero Tenet, idea crede- re facrofantfo, that from everything part of the re&o re trogrado and they are read in order; that may be permitted to them who Danno- they enter either explicit or implicit pa&um I think there is so much in them, as much as that which he has trodden rich who can speak without words; Sign yourself to me, you touch me at random and distress me, love will go with the movements of the fu bito for you
That is why the Magi that in retrograde order completely, let him return the fenfum, in the pit of foolishness not aflurnpfifle, in fact I am surprised. . You see, therefore Leiflor quantum you are a toy net the men of maleficence then Amulets
then the obstinuifle of teftimation as it is not in of the Latins while he fed into the Arab, nay the Ethiopian cheers they rejected the invocations. A few Ethiopians indeed with the prayers of the fans, they tired God and Chril into ducks they add these voices; indeed, by virtue of these names, more weight and strength to achieve what they are aiming for not yet, let them be strong in mind (ibid pervade
Further the same names: Sator, Arefio, Tenet! llj Arabic is read in the accounts, and nowhere in Mago- Cabaliihs are dead.
an impressive focus on some Hebrews terms i one becomes the most famous of all among the Magos charadterolairas the name AGLA which; nothing they are different, than the initials of this letter
n that is You are blessed so called. a pinch amen
So this AGLA one from the mighty in the name of God they think they are weak but when they fail those initials li- entirely undetermined eff Himself as well. to evil
how to be accommodated for good pofle: vtitur hu- a very cunning devil, while the fub of these hierarum- in- r not by determination blessings curses
is cursed, as is clear from the following example, etc by V AGLA the same can be understood in Hebrew: nuns, and they will rush you, or fub the Latin phrase innume
in these ways v. g. Abrupt te Gurges Leonis Auern
like curses, vtpcoinde let it be clear how foot c riculofus it becomes huiufsnodi of indetertinator names- vfos, especially those found by him who he cannot concentrate Huiulmodi eftfeq nifr evil vensfigillunx zzt Of the Magicians which was tamed by the Name ESV, and divine attributes under it becomes ignited, yet so many portents are named Demonus but mixed together, vt Satan given works, facr$ diuin? The names of the Scriptures are filled with devilish jllufions it will come together. In this diagram we omit the hexalphas when lexies repeated the name Alga inferred the name IESV you would see: in a fertile circle surrounding the four Gospels the names of dear angels, in the third ex Kabbalah Hebrew amphibological names were also extracted (after the bus is packed
in the last three circles with merit Satan rejoiced in his malice, in what way they were poor, through fearsome Cacodcemo- whether monftruofa triumph in eliminating names there Let no one, therefore, bear faith heretofore, nor I dare you to cry, which is not the fruit of souls, fed with hay they threaten and fear the downfall of their fathers. No, it never happened
like the Magi fub fpecie of praise of the divine, suffocating the devil, instead of praising let them render mifce, as in the Book of Magic in the beginning race I saw I remember fub in this form of nouns: God is good, not bad
strong not weak, omnipotent, not im- mighty God what words on the contrary the grass retrograde are read in order he plays indefatigable Satisfied hatred with the divine names, and ridiculed them to him Such a Riddle it is carried
For he, as we read in his life, when I was a hero Xantho He was wandering through the ruins of the palaces, perhaps falling into a column I have a certain seashore, to which I am bound Greek literature they were in- Amulets zz i inflicptate, indicating thefaurumeo in instead of not ong a Column defoflumj of which with Xanthus lntelligen- then anxiously searching for V Aetopus found the sayings which began with the same characters, the script lam three used expofitions illuftrauH
they were but a of this kind: A B A OT. X. which Aetopus manifesting, hero I was the place of rbefaun, which hteii de- they finished do it first he spilled
O. ttvPetf, Digging. From Mw. inmnies QT rum X. Xfttiov aureum This is the degree to which, digging you will find a golden treasure. Since then Xanthus will dig up the treasure, nor any part of it of gold Aephopus admonished him modestly, vt it would correspond to the order of the column
A. Amamw. , clt Taking away
B. BuePiearltf, go. A. chu, dimdtte
ok whom the youth of Bibili, Q, thefaurum, this is, Go to the Tollings, go for a long time invent the- a golden horn When Xanthus despised ret Aephopus was indignant
he was threatened, if he would not take a part, fe another hey it is said that the order will be issued, thus from
Q. dmravfor, thefaurum, X-Xm, golden, this is, I went to Dionysus, whom I found a golden treasure
from which it is clear how many are the gentleness of this kind of trifle he wants to be exposed r, r Of the Magicians Numifina is carried around, etc. , to which the Pentagonuri unregistered
in the middle of which you will face ferocious night club I am a thief Hebrew name
not at all Salaturora, fed by contempt so called, vti from acro- ftyehide patet quentesfententiae ico nm id it is may his name and memory be blotted out his
name indeed by which the Scripture makes him a prince says by acroftvchi- that of the fruitful slow thus they say: ap-f oef let the name of the wicked rot
Below, however, is the face of the Savior hsc words they put a'OSn art5 bread propofition: to whom in the words of the real body of Dominic in fmchari ftia prxfentiam negat vquafi fub Euchariftia praterer app parent bread nothing else be hidden
Countless this instead to attach the chicken to the family, all these things I take Syntagnatis XI. of hieroglyphic magic than fufiTi- Noah, Sc among the tableau already propofitum i. e. , to which I refer Le&or. All of them are feqtrant to this day that of the Magi
who afccndente helmet true to acquire the status of Coeleft, they impiously pervade the fibi
What? for I pray of virtue it can be infused with numbers or figures, with which they put so much happiness? by numbers in which, and in which figures: there are palpable qualities, which om- in virtue of his power, I found all that was done they are incapable. It is foolish to ask what nefds. For whence what an hour precisely moment to fanatics facing why do you require apotelfma? who with on this and that day true and practical of the other movements of all Aftronomo- rum confenfu to be trusted, or what influx of this or of that Amulets tzf of that Planet into numbers He figures himself out have power
I can't take it incapable of fint what? Who is the Mage to you, said he, from whom this reflux emanates? rather than those ftellaH or even a fella rather fixed, rather than planetary? why rather in these numbers, which adu defcribis, than on others, who at the same hour from Arith- it is conhituuhtur to the medics
imaginative ability to work compkmemu requi-. O how blessed! they would be those who were foolish with intent and low golden gination children mountains
I wish you all the happiness attract they can, but of this figment let them be ashamed let them say the stem of acquiring power stones, tile away given a certain analogy heaven of the things ad land compared to the second, of all through much conlenlunu effedtrix
fed again what? analogy to the point not snow let a man of an agitated mind take it. who asked me the figure of a man, but to man virtue to print thumb movement or fennel or understood
I am a fan of any kind thanks to the Prince, and the rest to impress fortune's toys: I hear them say you, these all pcteftate intelligentk of faith afflicting to be conferred. But I say, this intelligence other arms not effie, but Cacodaemon, who the hearts of men clever his findings fcata, with the extreme collapse of souls, to go mad love
But here it is let us pass on to the Pythagorean Cabalanr
C A P V T II. J)e Cabala Pythagorean It is compared to that glasses nature limits they are shining curious minds of men, see all that fen- they are charged with ropes, full of falsehoods of the gods eff, let the unlearned fibi perfude with words taken from the Scriptures, while God they say everything in number, weight, 8c menfura creaf Fe. So the number above all ali ji things tear they bring the rim; and the number lingulis Al- A man of great letters, full of falsehoods as well
then the names from the letters to be formed, whose numbers are ir4W rewashed, all good and bad fortune: tus they contain, they think fuperftitiofius. Hence art she the notoriety emerges, with the name surname of someone in r of the whole number according to the way of life I will judge him Poffe Exiftimant j Sc this art of the Pythagorean Cabal cam they name, the author of which was Pythagoras
they do in the manner of this kind of nebulon, Jolitus, to some extent lust and fame I lived in the name to win
I admit, however, that between everything of this make nose molimina, nothing at all, or more funny, on a rotten foundation periffe
As a result, I do not hesitate to wonder at fate It can be done by reason, that is, many, even those who eyes river they wish to appear less prudent, to this one ma- Amulets
bad luck art, exactly afmina Philosophers or let them have faith, or bring them into the mind pcdiint, vt I'm sure you'll do something with his help in future meetings. then they thought that they were finished. Really fanatics have We can see the cares of the fruftra culled, as an example and on the other hand, the verminous dogma of this Satamci ffru&ions from us to be destroyed, let us put it before our eyes curious of the hare They are supposed in the first Pythagorean tfti myfts, feu rather devils Alphabet of letters Latins exasperate then for the Latins, for the Italians, Italian, for Graci Gtx when, for the Arabs, Arabic. So they are alpha the various betas by which they are abused
In this Alphabet the value of the letters of the clay you have a numerical value that either men or Da- it is certain that he will find a warning for the letters K it is assumed vnita$ Sc the same letters A? why letters
Literally N and fic about the others? This one childhood with would warn Cornelius Agrippa
something more reliable led to the establishment, while the Alphabet was honored matomantic, or rather onomantic in a different way spread out
and praises Alexander Philophophus, which gave he seeks the reason by which Horofcopi's letters are numbered Ikllarque goddesses they wish to be found; each one between St. Vxare's husband is about to die before he dies or becomes luperuictnrus
all of which is based on no propensity of reason they have, and they are worthy, who would laugh at the children there j so deservedly as Satanic works, avoided by every truly Chriftian man. they are given. A true operation indolence childhood for we add If you trust in this matter, they say, born someone's home Bella the nurse, count his name, St in each case Parent through clay letters according to the number preferably then
ccllecbmque touus fummam, diuide by new narium, futrabcnding it as often as you can; St (i rtimn- he strikes the vmtas or quaternary, both Salera indicates become true binary gold lieutenant vterqae Luna de- it is fixed
heuti ternary louem quinary Mercury Senarius Friday; donor Saturn-; nineteen Mars To whom perfndte front men, born other inside this pasture to be found they believe that
The name of both the Father and the Mother shall be reckoned, and the birth and the smoke gathered through he is a druid: for the rest vmtas
they notice you. And here are eight cultured St not to spread all, wickedness: architedoriuru
secret But who, I pray thee, is this nonsense? believe Z who This is the faith of this kind have dung shameless For from here all the Peters, James, Pauls, Scc. when refracted into numbers, they present the same number
so the cmnes vni He is the same 8c. they will experience the same fate. reply they do not fanciful fed accounts You demonize yourself emotional toys Only to be competent, that Sol. one and the folus is v of the moon, which each of them eats provide so, and they say the soul of the world, to whom o; four The hinges of the world, 8e four seasons of the year, which different. - nit, they attribute j
when from the first pair odd com is supposed to belong to Mercury made from woman maficulus y Friday because it is combined from and vo- far away
Who doesn't? so many interesting comments here let him laugh happy parents, whose discretion would depend, vt son leaf name according to the name of the planets the favor of the dominant, every soon fortune good luck be filled
To this Alphabet we are thinking of something else vfitai- then, in which darkness of this kind they spread through the hair, about? the life and strength of the children, of all things good or bad Tunas are perfect for the strong let's give judgment, foolishly they boast. . The alphabet is made F G H L M N O
Here I first ask why. they brought the ternary A or even Of the Magicians the same ternary Why n. C E? why also ll, i M fine Se Q aflTignent? surprisingly fe twist in this place liars and orcs
nor do they polish the foundation of reason to attach anything else to us as well as that of the Devil, with whom the pa&o entered it they clufer, I will bend down
or ftolidiffimi brain from Da- warn a demented phantom. Which is more open often I will open it with examples. First of all, from the smoke the rich often take away in the name of the flood to be done able, and refvduum at fe they retain then are contemplated she returned; with whom collated rc Ipondent, this or that fupcrfiiture, this or that- he would die first, or to live longer
Sefi qux liint those thousands But not that so attracted, vtfi rcfiduum- one was greater than the other, He had fled from the city
fed fepe from the minor, the other cx major, the palm they promise a longer life
they represent that man who will become a voyeur, who in in the name of relict he had a binary, another indeed who
if he had, he would go to the nape of the neck. as well in i, i pawn let him make a fool of him who has been repaid when therefore the adwerfarius had a ternary reliduum
fic about of the rest But who is so? they congealed to whom how come apply the alphabet
He is a ternary in two men, the fourth must win, that falfurn ell in the names of Cain Se Abel, whose he for has a ternary here the quaternary
He had to make fun of him, but the opposite of this is what the Scriptures he learns The same appears in Abfalon &loab, quorum this one has a refiduum feptcnarium, that one a quinarium, and pro- hence he failed to defeat Joab, whose they report to us letters
It would follow as well from fanatics of this kind of onomatopoeia? rules, that is who in Latin he was deceived, in French he would win how absurd becomes, who he does not see confulas (vti sharply Merlennus demonstrated work I was in Geneva) Onomato- mante Latin He will soon affirm Mary become I will carry out from the son of Stephen and the longer the vidktram, because MARIAE pofl fubdudlos name numbers by reflat Stephano- indeed ternary for they fly vagrants, ternary from otona- rior fuperari But the example the names of the gods are written
for it is clear from the confession, whose angles run the number of letters from the alphabet You put the weight on the numbers in one fumma colletlis, you will see. in STEPHANO fummum in MARY of which fubduc whenever you could
cool fciji Of the Magicians ternary remains, they lead here, MARY eflc victorious cem, and atq; should live longer than Stephen True, this is the most false of the French names app it will appear, from which the whole opposite is supported, as will be seen in the French Names MARIE ESTIENNE; If you go back to the numbers, you will have a clear picture of this
high Rius from which nineteen times it will be possible re- ctus, leaves in the former
and so on against the rules of arithmetic, MARIE where: fub La- by the name of Vitfirix with a French name fupe is swept away. But in the manner of a polished eil of this sort nbus, as vbt they see, the matter is not very good, lations to extend, or not legitimately ptoceffum or something else that I do not know rested that Menilli what happens, they do not wish to demonstrate
Some people and when they are ashamed of having committed error, their names are wonderful ways to avoid
nor Mary i STEPE1ANO fuperata be said Pollit, from that name S 6c N take out and make with the mutilated name E OENE MARIAE defiederateatL
they promise victory. But off with this bad holiday by the flowery machinations of men, There are things to be remembered, so the same for the others buried in darkness, don't cut off the paper like that things seem to stain, I omit
He who trusted more it's le- gat Merfennum Geneva fol.
X Satanic this She was born in Magifterius it seems famous that wheel, than some wheel life; and death some call it Spherea Biantis, but they call it wrong im- with a polite name True as mortals in so funny things be seen fluctuating clearer let it be clear, the wheel and to add a branch to this place, I examine live it shines sphere Biantis Within the two extreme circles of the Alphabet ono- ma- Registration Rora
Of the Magicians mathomanticnm with numbers, correct letters with clay he is fped with his teeth; below which two others circular spaces you see delinquent, within which? you will be dear to me. planet rum) fuffingulis numbers: appropriated are placed v fe- then they are inside the cavity central three co- diameter of the shaft A B. . interftindhe, , numbers packed of which ij, which contains the outer diameter A B ces, numbers vi they are called, which is below the diameter A B are in the happy, The numbers themselves are called death. hence those in red, these in black there. And here it is wheel of that unhappy five times which, indeed, even in the works of the Venerable Becix, ne- do with which I paint, I wonder irreppififly. . But let us explain it
First, then, Archimylta? Satanic in reality, or to be supported by falsehood, , receive a number of letters vtriuf those, between whom the business is conducted, the number, too the hour of the day at which the conversation begins; Memphis too I fixed the number of the Zodiac; all in one fummarru they collect and fasten for 8e: the rest. They are looking for a wheel.
whether the money was repaid, fake of the state it is agreed
Who in a remote country should be helped to live? dead, yes They proceed to receive the number. of the name absent, which from the numerical alphabet in at the ends They come out in two circles, and then you do not merely menfis, my with the number of days in which it fades
He was a man in they collect one smoke, to which they add a number current year, than the whole fume of numbers. let them see through that they will redeem themselves
fs indeed a foolish diamond trum Amulets. '
if A B is found, it is certain that he is alive pronounce the diameter A B is found to be the same, dead they had drunk him a little
of life He is going to leave, or not; they receive a number of the name you
captured of the year, of the harvest, of the day, the cleverer fatftus efi to what collations do they add the name of city and country? i Himself they divide the total smoke by that refiduunu Let the diameter of the tube be found among the red numbers A he will be released j fi between blacks, death they think, he drank
A lot of fans at this point Hellebore to the child fto-
it would be necessary: for what in this ridiculous device refutation or whether it be hidden in virtue or vanity, to be pleased no reason Roia:
I do not want to, they might say, the Onomatopoeic Alphabet the bag, which had already been redoed in the back im. adapted to a circular form, a special force have which is how it becomes inflated
who does not see? But what's wrong with me? the planetarium of Charaderes with to him fublcript numbers, more power in the circle than let them return to the camp, and let them enter with many men I'm hungry smoke what finally the diameter of the red heart numbers normally already, no circularly registered
more of virtue to life, than the lower ones blacks to death let them obtain I don't get it. Be a fool, be a thief, fiue deorium spring, fane the same femper strength to to be eliminated police tell me what could be desired
the heads of the judges with whips rather than with words tra&abilorju, - they should be thoroughly beaten, i. t. there
But what can I say? those hours of the day Menfis, name whether, the figures, the planets, the numbers of the hills grind let him go to the matter, let him have more leisure of time j I'm in such a bad mood fana do&rina or to be examined otherwise, or to be more energetically refuted, the good hours are not impen- dam, they are nugx, affanix, and nxnias worthy who deliver such things, the darkness of prisons, 5c Vvlcano Hilce Cabaliflis reaped to be numbered polish Geo- mantas, in the future from Geomantic foolishness dis infantile in which nothing is extra prxlcriptunu From this it is clear that what is not the most important thing of reason is done
For they may pierce again and again or earth or abacus or something fblidum able to punish no or time or numbers to be pierced that being considered, fed the attack and fantafue running away, which the kings of the sky are praising, who rests there having collected pun&a figures from them. deliver do- mibufqiK then, . none foundation
none but of reason rush noun they impose the claps of greater or lesser fortune, amif- fion, water, white, red, boy girl: isti- prison head and tail They contend for three they should be governed by the celestials, and in equal proportion to the heavens place let them rest and rest and all their strength go with questionings. O co- for who is the city of men? do not say no- Amulets
of knots and moles faith random coffee therefore, the predictions of the future are to be drawn fibi piercing give
A ftrologist is not incongruous with the inferiors re- rum ccdefiia howl to be had it was come the stems of all, fed not in the way that ipfi contend he could have exifbraare figna efle fiue per fe. , fiue curncaufis, but under no circumstances could this happen no of the mind The issue is not perfect, but the futures of the future, or frgna. really there is a movement, the hand, for the future design at random or striking on paper, or completely indifferent I want to do everything I want to do I made a motion tura are not referred to, fed in configurations afpe the leader of faiths, in various of them strength properties
As for Geomantas those figures in abacus of pun ad friendship Nem X 1L of the pawns of the Zodiac, the children of the ipfis cone they when you go to the toys rather to be defended than are successful. But they say
that in numbers I should emphasize four mothers, and as many children, from whom the grandchildren depend and as many the office, who is a poor judge packed they protect ISJugae toys. I ask Rurfus what the match is or an odd number of pounds, and the figures of houses: roots let them do to that futility of the future divine nem, vt fi or vmim pundu or exceed or to die the whole operation into void it falls they say that this is done from nature property figures
which quickly such li- gno coelefli s even. such planets are fubdatur But who nefek Vi: DcKran? i ia Gcoma ixyra Of the Magicians or ip ro Philofophus tefte, in figures such a force power and he cried out no pulle nor in faithful eff strength that they may be communicated with bold figures. That but the red figure, which they say is a boy Tuesday they made, so ftolidumeft vtfenfatis reef with move with indignation: why is it ridiculous? happens, Mar- the strength to compare a child with a huge body of war, 6c destitute of all manly strength, who is not? he sees i whence emanates another childishness, the red color of Mars tell, because it appears to be of a flaming color
Innumerable ra in this place clumsy, vefana, ridiculous, Sc characteristic of an emotional mind to bring de- The delirium of geomancers pomelo fed up with her in Magic Here rogly from the basics I would futaure, he Le- let go
i ls WterMnfcr to the daily hummus re- i rum contempUuonemfpeaant, not mmimumjane
atm will be obtained, myHica number system quaple- rofque so obtetfatos. faifie nouimusy I'm sorry offered 'velvet, prapinguia: pajcua I was in the same position as the first interpreter most exercuifie vifi fnty not td to anyone to be trusted must be y with the numbers natural let no argument interfere with any doubt. bet y, quinCub ijs lateat nefcto-qutd nearby mum, intelleBuali nature infitumt: fi: nume- rum abea fuftuleris: , the nature of detruxip-vtdearu. No- the mere creation of everything; Elements whatever at last in Angelic, Human, Sidereal Elementari. Mundo concinnum harmonic efl, id to- and with the ratios of numbers, the fub of the multiple but from: SS. Scripture: luculentiftme pa
the same Noires everything con- those Mythagogy so, which I do not deserve a certain perpetual context the allegory of numbers continued you will say
Christ, our Redeemer, worships and speaks parables fub myBicis cumerorum allegorical adorn; like a fan let the light shine of the truth, but with the excitement of mfenfat fog
therefore, with this little piece of work it would seem, profimo in proceeding with the numbers abufu. rum& legitimate, as well as d SS Facra Pa- gyno approved by the translators, timely support I went to bed; Orf how aptly it is humane things myfltca ratios of numbers they would agree from the fertile it would be revealed in a different way. In which, however, someone exijlimare Please don't give me the numbers to apply myflic diuims by ma- terials of certain arithmetical concepts fied by abBra Bifisimas and the highest ratios of numbers they do not drink anything else) than a kind of analogy, what through the vmbratiles fimiht udines understand noBri im- dexterity daily by nature incomprehensible efficiency, we are trying to express how much as cAuthors a little poflallengandi, from which we smoked the rest, proBi- they grind. Whence be sometimes occafio is given to run to real fanfic Bfetaphyfical or Theological, pr Letlor's tooth will be y out of the whole analogous context of things, men- theme and the intention of the Author} in the way he said
Xpiicaturus the myrtagogy of Numbers, by caj vinitate feu IVlonade ordiar who is the greatest of all the beginning of numbers so also all from it nu- the crowd of meres flows out
so much of the abVnitatis here vential Abyffo, who is DEVS Opr: Maxr interuallo, as the infinite from the finite, the intellectual from the material
Everything comes from nothing, God trusts. Just as om- lest the numbers emanate from vanity and be composed, yes from that vanity of the fupramundane Monad rum, which are either conceived by the intellect, or by the transparent eyes they flaunt, the orders, kinds, species
fecundiffimx Xternx mind concept they came out What a wonderful Monad 8c nefcio where in of another
Monas, then, is the beginning of all things of numbers contains, d does not contain any y and generates every number y begotten by no number
To whom he will write Boethius: Everything Boed there were, they seem to have been formed by the ratio of numbers
for this was the principal in the mind of the Founder, the model, hence I tremble The accumulation of elements was borrowed n hence the man of the times ces here the movement of aflrorumy Ccelique conuerfio
To those who dem What happens when you are in God how god rate center where do ooftsr told
Mythagogy in words nothing else than that infinite Diuinje Na- ture eflentiam fuperimmenfam, indiuifam, vnam, fim- the most common, the idea of all ideas, the form of mam, the reason of the reasons, of all numbers, that is, understand the fountain of all created things hit the human intellect would be far removed, only by the exvnity of that fuperna from faith and fua nature fill up ciffima, the fetus of such a multitude, so many products. variety of things with so much creativity, fine with all his vanity, he was able to emanate it at the cost of an irreparable loss
All this myth, however, has no other better reason as a fub vmbratili. with a kind of childishness, through material The properties of the property can be explained j in any way for all things come from the divine mind, so in a certain way all things from the mind, that God in creation, this mind and the divine mind discerns in the production of numbers everything v the mind discerns and divides all things. . But for God's sake. the growth of the production of things is in proper fubfiftenity
but after the multitude of numbers, nis childhood For the vanity of numbers He will not reply fast y. fu blatis verily, in numbers fem- through the intrepid will reftate. which vti; of all numbers the origin is so also all, in fe numbers by virtue of com holds, and so the number is both even and odd, as ma- ximos, how small in a wonderful vanity then that fruitfulness is complicated by vanity Yes, I will go completely. fuperimenfa that monad, which is that of the fupramundani the first conception of the fruitful workmen 6e Archtypon, iru in which match odd greatest and least, tefte Bcetius Of numbers. Cufano, thus they coincide, viz. tation, or diuifionc, one femper in fc, ineffable mo- (to make it more clear, to make it better let us explain the manner in which it is given
Wash off this big instead nothing else cry out di- Cardinal Cufanus cit book he is ignorant of do&a how much The elf cannot be given a greater gift truth in finite, comprehended by no human, nor angelic understanding henfiable For since this is the most important thing about their nature, which they admit of exceeding and exceeding, becomes the smallest
will be that is all that is neceflarib, that the concept of the mind ftrac could be expressed; for all things, whatsoever I say or understand that they are apprehended by us, thus between faith and they differ from each other, as there is absolutely no preeminence equality among them I will be afflicted. But that greatest equality it is, which is not from anyone it is different, or different, nor vlluttL. it also implies either a great man or a weak man
so far away and every intention is invested, all with merit mental concept exceeds, and so with the greatest it is the same after washing. Wash off further with this maxim all that, what he can do, is done; but the least This is done so easily that it cannot be conceived any less he puffs
Opposite then, which in weak things of the mind The foundations of the noftra are to be grasped, they have only a place now those that exceed they admit the chief i Maximum indeed If at least wash away vti cm op- appetite it is
clu- Kind ft. Ma Ximus from I'm sorry
What is happening to me? nimura ab- lol
Maximum M. nirnu wash away co- it} the same abf that vlla co tiadidion Mythagogy elude can Cufanus eruditely proves it Then wash away all the high becomes abfo needle 1U3E ee Punt? that opposite orama that is, with the smallest if it coincides, it is unimportant; and so much so
that destroyed all affirmation and negation, everything that can be conceived is expiring, even that is not eat rather than not eat is conceived; all that it is conceived not to be weak, not to be more than it is; truth This is the way it is, i. e. all things are done, and so everything is i. e. nothing; And so the greatest, that is, the least; so the light, what is darkness?
mt for his tenehrct, so light em, when other God nia poUibilia a&u efie will not pollet, do not it will be infinite He is the limit of all things. But this I will tell everyone tranfeendit, who cannot contradict himself at the beginning to combine the way of reason, since by those things which we jpia are known to nature, we walk, which are far from this in- falling with finite power, ipfa contradictory to infinity. He is not able to connect the diftantia fimul. So above all an incomprehensibly great way of reason that dirty infinite fire to whom we see that nothing is opposed phanemafl" with the smallest to coincide They are therefore Maximum it is proved At this point the minimum is transgressing washed away pretend tion of the term, which fimplicity washed away
any contradiction to the quantity of mass or virtue you they include everything And this maxim At least nothing else should be done, but one says FavientitilTimus Cardinal. Cufanus, a book about the Doda. ignorance of these words
Z4f of confidence and so the soul in numbers ajfiueta, at the end ijs anything finite terminated not to conceive he decided
with the number, the difference of things also, order t proportional tion, harmony, and multitude of beings, which fne ntt Merely conceived 'vt ceffet necejfie eft At ft number country ifie will make infinim, because then next to dtBa the greatest aElu would fall with the mimmo, all things together ctjfii
rent, when the same becomes the number of the infinite ejfie, mnnme efile
Infinitely therefore it is indeed so great in number. afisl do not know potejl, 'Vt the greater not at all He was satisfied with the petition; however, the maximum number of aElu, by which the greater dar. t notpofi becomes, to be signed, ejl afistgnart who has no principle
nor the end daughter it has the size the number is fixed infinite tus will make it, and the number of talls will increase, nor difficulty neither order nor plurality of things, nor exceeding nor would he admit of excess, no, it won't count. Qua- on account of the necessity of eB in number to the least, to reach Vanitas Ma-
I am a woman by which he is unable to carry out threats and btc ejt initas
since rata y njta. . vanity is incapable of threatening ejfe will htc vanitas minimum fim
usually, and so with the utmost diligence it coincides But you can't do that evnita$ count ejfe, v tpote to everyone excefju carens, fed eB prirfcipium of numbers without the least which this beginning refers to, the end of every god, because ma
what is eB? with whom he fell at least
therefore ini- that has been swept away, to which nothing is opposed if the greatest of the fimplii cither j who eB Deas bless that Vnitas the greatest ejh thus multiplicative fg) shareable, since (three cft that ejfe poteB.
can't therefore ipfa united nume- to be shaved And this one. Hebrews in Kabbalah mouse Zhar de vnnate
they call Fnfuph Diuince capacity? infinite shame, that is great and interminable this Vnitas It is called Zohn: Vmtasfimplex, abvoluta imitate fimphei-, O abfiolutifisisma in all ways and reasons, cx to all the exams you will receive, i niji the unity ft) river washed away
And make this vanity so necefiariain, that note exultantly, he wants to exfoliate nothing of the seasoned things, The quoted author offends with hifcc words
Card. Cma- Since everything is not the highest fitfinite principles- ttaVgnon then neceifart that will be from someone For if dfeipfo it will when it will fail; lest, therefore, it should be allowed to proceed further in the infinite, the Maximum fmplicitly necejfarium, the end by which nothing could be done, .to be granted efl. When pratered no He was able to inteUigi at the end of it, but the Maximum ejfie achieve He does not admit this; necejfie efl, least ejfie, with ma- ximo ejfie to command, and it will be abliotted ejfie nothing else how great is the ejfie; as the greatest Truth, it is the Great abfilute; especially therefore it is true
rvel be do not be; whether or not to be, or not to be
for in the infinite Diuin. t ojfiunt
that Being I will be in not a Being as to no matter Entis, ffi not Ent. efl in Ente as to the matter of Being, that which is not Being becomes Being, Being does not become Being
So it is clear cx didis, Maximum (implicitly neccfiarib efie, even ejsentut btc otnnui Jtne opposition be considered p more fitSns beats here, why St. Dionysius God tfi I become
I have already told you What produces a Being from a non-Being m Of numbers
I have washed away the wickedness, and this Vanity washed away Vnitasergo btecerit High fimpuci- thrice, which we allude to the fupra S. Dionyphius do&e emon ftrat lib. de diuin. , nomin. . With all vt fint, cauia- becomes God if not it is vtpote omni: eflent. a who for
exceed all fubftantity, it is also more important And hence the manner of God philofophane di, it emanates the negative j. vti: for nothing inexifit: in. To God which is not becomes God-, thus all things are somehow God, God is everything y, vt proindd hence emanet de Deo affirm- the method of diflering, which, according to St. Dionysius, beginning with the lowest and the lowest Feniim progress it is given by the negative opposition of the lowest let the fim proceed to the fuprema When I affirm, tio as well as the negation of the finite mindfinite finr, neither: at- They want to dye what excels every finite thing; therefore it remains in infinite darkness, in all light: inaccessible is all nonsense, is there affirmation and negation? therefore hence emerges the excellent negatives. theology, which He brings and does not deny anything about God
Capt II- How 'Unitet, eu Adonat trtha dtet pojsit? ? Oft Unity in the order of numbers, that is binary who vti it is Some of the repetition repetition, so also not undeservedly Monas fecund, the first potefty to be said, and the first me Theology denied which Mythagogy mere, external, first k fcnfibile branch of courage monads (and duplication, the beginning of everything multitude
Sri v' This water could be conceived by human ingenuity which do it do it of all creatures, of which no is a number That most important monad of the Deity is fertility flow out xus is marked, the beginning of every multitude; that vti subject to evil and imperfection, so also by Hie- Romyftis for the symbiosis of things confederate, bad- which in the beginning is smoked} for this is part of nature; Ange- from vanity recife and feparata; of all He brought into the world one of the evils i of which see God nyf. of God: in the name: the fufius explainer. Where Philophophus the first matter through the dyad express run: for as God through the first vinta- tem in fe ipfo immutable S indiuifiible edentia fubfiflit; Dyas cll pri mouse I was from God thus the fecundity of fecundity is the repetition of the Monad, and antiquity and with a spirit close to God it is said, since they were going only one thing is done teria, the whole opposition of the edypon, with the first relationship The opposition does not occur in the dyad, of which it goes (after. He therefore became fertile from the first monad decifa vinitas, the beginning of the multitude, and the first of equals number, but of malice by some infuse Philosophers, by what first ab in vain reflow express mat, than the multitude a mark of imperfection di- count
godly the first principle of wisdom, and the foundation of strength it is done by one, not undeservedly by the ancients, and G kills then afigyprijs, Hcbrwfque diuifion in all discipline ccn of numbers
the number is given, by which the Egyptians of the opposites re- rum diiTidium lis dilcordia itself, and the combatants na- ture of qualities I do not deserve the vicissitudes a complete rum Magis fub Arimanij Se Orimazis the allegory of which fupra, himself from the Egyptians or the Ophirids Typhon himself rny- thoiogia reprfentatcE are indicated, of which Tomum- Oedipus, C [a VII. fill up But as to propofiturm we return to ourselves, deservedly so who would like to only archetypes of that desire, with one thing dung
polt dyadem but is it said to be three? Three times the first, the third Boethius, Duke is himself Prin-Tiiadis from odd number, odd number, first, whole, con- eiltia smoked, vniuerfus, the whole: for figuti Monas ert fim- plexus at the end extremity, Dyas extremity divided it is clear at the end of the middle with vanity; fiction trias in a wonderful complex each of them seized the former
in fact around and pile up the Monad of the Dyad unfaithful
Self Dyads He joins with extreme vanity and does not deny He cut himself into two pieces: po- tenti of the whole con- flat filltquc fubftantiarn j so in the Dyad progress fa Monas, each one except for the borders completes the triad and completed the number; Whence I do not deserve it number it is said that the Prince, the Divine emanation of the limulachrum.
will be let us know what we have learned the love of fuprem fubftants a quick departure three Mythagogy triad. Strange therefore no it is, the old ones Philophophus so much the triad lie down myfterijs Tfrnarij nu Sjcuti is formed from the Monad by the addition of Dyas courage fiction by the addition of the Monad to the Dyad is reached Three, the number three out of one in one brought back since vanity became the principle of numbers, make a triangle the first of all of the figures of Redbbne, and it is produced from binary and vanity, and in hieroglyphics pyramids is fixed by A which begins with the pun&o feu Mo- swim pyramid, and by two any sides baliro extended, with which A is confounded, facra she so many Anti- of whom (Crypts celebrated the Trias, the Platonic truth The idea of the world's threefold model of itself, that true balance of struggle: Fythagoricce to the middle of the two vices of each returned
of all numbers principle, DiuintE The ternaries are the triads of Nature of the whole imperfection, etc Nature meriiaus the complement of the void, the appetite for forms in Pro- theo the only center of power
pyramid inyftica foundation, the source itself is the origin of bodies, which to myfti- case simulations
hidden of things explanations nothing worse. For as the first pair, of course, eH diuifio, and the first diuerfita caftts as we said first from one j fiction ternary is the first odd number it is what it is return to one and the principle s per- fc&ior is equal, when he apprehends him, no from co be comprehended: Whence the most suitable number it is immediately ti. T, liquid in pairs of juftity what it is diiloluta nne in the middle, as Plato reminds us in lib. of the laws, nothing the lura, on which it rests, has a hinge, fcd in an odd number Phto Of numbers.
the first one, as the middle of which is the center The god, with whom the water was distributed, He himself to which I ended up is ruled. I was also odd because of the middle light vt re&e Plotinus says
enter the furthest bond fe poflldet, because of the circular center Sc pro- for the comparison of the extremes with the middle, vniuerfi the principle of order elt: For in the ternary principle,
middle, Sc end efhVnde and priests who that Theologians, as a principle, medium, and the end of God to draw reports three in oller to whom indeed they were presented, already at the Trinx of Victory let us proceed with the explanation
There has never been a Nation that did not worship God, Himself (implicitly) he would not believe him
Siflenij vnitate they worshiped the most. Pythagoras learned the Trinity I will quote the words of Cufani, to whom this matter is to be understood He expounds quickly, citing lit. fupra: It should be known, he said- which precedes all alterity, namely the sternum: for alterity the same, that changeability; Jed all that changeability turally it proceeds unalterably-& ccnjequently the sternum. Vanity, therefore, is by nature prior to otherness. ftg since her proceeds naturally efl sterna
Moreover, all inadequacy efl from water exceeding shear quality emerges by nature closer, that so eylendo. Everyone squalie is refined into squalie, for a shark is greater among them ftj less efl f therefore you dempjere, which is greater efl
you will have squale', fc fi less damped a greater, again you will have the shark nsqualitas therefore by fuLtraflicne to squali- tate is reduced therefore the quality naturally progresses ins
that conti net p. iinci- midday the end
njtas tiatt! ri he will go slow down Otherness inequality they are nature Vnitasqua lyres, con connection painted they have he, so bent and my if you
Mythagogy such as j Otherness, therefore, and inferiority are by nature fimul
converfo in- For the otherness will be three times two to less, but that to one they will make a duplicity of them, therefore they will be unqualified through the chief of them Otherness then
ptf unevenness fimul they will be nature, fed from the primordial waters of nature, nature proceeds without water dispute) why otherness, then it will be poor. third
Again f there were two caufa? of which the former and the latter
will be more effectively of the former prior natured you will indeed suffer
But the beginning is either a connection, or it is a caufa connection) efl for the ZJnitiua of all
but linarius or diuifo ef y or caufa diuifonist, therefore, was created by nature prior to binary existence, so fp connexio naturd prior efl diuifone fed fcuti other you god naturd f mu! they are so the strength connection
When, therefore, it was proved that ft that which alterity, diuifonem y fire proceeds changeability ife the sternum for that fm about the maximum
nothing hero proceeding otherness is another, than but vanity is the same as squalor connection
it will be necefarib, vnitas. quality
do they make more litters? The otherness of the multitude was first effected fdte, again the one fails the other so none that- the rum will be eternal, so they will be eternal fp not eternal everything are ridiculous impofsibdia. Vianet then Vanity? I shot the sloppiness connection Is it funty? so (p Eternal eph
So Culanus And this is that trinity as Pythagoras He was worshipful; and yEgyptij Hemphta say bata& fu h figure ty-Mtfazftt&pfyf-) giobu travel Of numbers.
ferpentera, wing folded into one hierogram, eye tc they were expressing what see Obelifcus Pamphilius
And so it is born of vanity equality of strength gattiue, that is the lack of inequality, and from these says the connection For God alone, as the entity of wild beasts it is, fire is the form of effacement, but wretchedness is the equity of beings, in by which there is neither more nor less;
neither below thus the generation of vanity nothing it is different than repetition of the state
or later v nita you will multiply them, I will now produce Vnitas from ie something else
i. e. binary, ternary, or some other kind cieatis will meet
Therefore, in daily manure then repeated creates The ccqualcatem of Vnitatis, Name that the same it is, Vnitas it produces Vnity which is a generation Eternal Father Son. This is clear, how that Trii- Megift is to be understood: Monks begat Monad I was poor he reflected ardor
For sure therefore gene- system Unity from Unity, there is a repetition of Unity, and so on acceleration it is from both sides repetition Unity of unity Squat, but that is the same, of Vanity connection rejection Return therefore from vanity squal- tate of strength, that is, it proceeds from both connections, nor for the connection is the first, fed by the vanity in the equal litigation desire proceeds from vanity i cl. vinionero It is not said, the connection from vanity-, or I was born from the ugliness of vanity, since neither from v ni- tate by repetition of fiq, nor by multiplication
Vanity is born of vanity, and con- a connection proceeding from each, as if it were said of the same thing. Trifmegtfii extracted from fold quo fiioo to another tate put on A comparison you don't go D of the Triad zf4 Mythagogy this, id, the same This is indeed what is said, ad it is first reported that what is actually said is the same, reported con- nedlit joins to the first And from such when lost to the mounds The Father of the two is Unity, the Son Squalor, the connection with true love, the fire of the Sandal Spirit;
And these things are, which of Tiifmegifli and Pythagoras three strength With courage fcrutinio Lectori curious to present I wanted So you see, how from by virtue of Dyas for flowing brings about a certain otherness, the truth of the mundane A symbol of production, good and bad nor not an index of the vicariance of things in the world
You see how one is added to the other po- fitum, femper least caufet fpatium, interltitiurru
and the same difcreta quantity presents that the line is continuous in quantity, for it is made from a flow
a point is conceived as the production of a line, thus dto lecretum, fpathy of all minimum he is drinking
Bursting with line inclined to the other line, the feCtion fua an angle effective city, what other than something indeterminate fpa everything does it make the fuperficia expers? to whom, however, thrice that line you will be added, then behold desire geometric the triplets arise, that is to say, a triangle, and therefore ex only tate return to vanity
For this is desire three gona the first desire of all of the fuperfice, all- which is the source and origin of redfilinary figures
in fact The numerical unity of the Divine Nature, thus the first unity here Of numbers. geometry, God's tnuniua ps5iicmf'aieft
nBT'taKt app. Me! by which desire newspaper triangle he- it marks the spirit of vanity, sides and the angles from vn itate- the quality of the dead, munu The hypoftafium of the gods tura and effeminacy are not inconsistent with the following vanity tura tx eueiiud
t throw or angu- ss. Trmjca marks Therefore, like aM ett, vt or iai
let the triangle's eflention remain from the hypopleur Air Com let the whole be destroyed; for it is not clear at the end of Ht vqoe lily at the end of Patre, nor even at the end of Spmtu m&o. or it may be conceived. For if the angle from the end of the triangle fiue latos fuitufcris, iatn not tmngu. um vm-trmum, the nectar will be one, fed into a dyad of tomes itnpet teaion Indeterminate Chaos will degenerate. again,
no hypoftafis possible be removed from the other, the greatest in three-one It would be sheltered by the triangle of divinity
It is clear therefore, what we have taught the fupri, three-unum tmngu um fiue iiopleuton vmbratile efle Symbol, , God, the Father, gives me vanity, and my daughter, piety Spirit A holy man pet marks the connection of love nuod ncc Trilemgiftum hid, while the nephew with which he breathed agitated he said: Mona gave birth to Monad, and so on! he reflected the ardor. Where by the Monad fit the by the begotten Monad Son, and by reflection ar- you ache for the Spirit Sand who love
Z&r Myrtagogia he hints. Let Monas be the first side AB the other Monas B ent side A C the connection Monas from C in A. reflected in which the trinity of the Godhead is the three-one Deity properly expressed muur, because the shape of the antepofita is clear. just as but the will is extra diffuse into a multitude of things, the productive and mundane of all things from vanity super na the difference of the flow of various things, thus geometric triangular waves of things in the world create what does he notice, the innumerable multitude variety of notes
For Eli was the beginning of all things that is, population so the first triangle the fuperficies of all recblinc figures, which? men the women who conceived thee polish thee, the root of Sc, and painted in all the numbers are unity, so put them all into a triangle ra; reCciiinea: , id clB, all the multitude of created things, Archetypon re-rolled it into a trine. Whence Plato It seems that you are too lazy to do this, hard this farm [en- He profluxifiely ajjeruit the jdile from the Trigon Archetypus, quo
going: ics as a kind of clay of the Divinity imprejf they seem and even ifa nature through manifefliili- but in all things imprefla tincacula, so much us myflerij He willed to be a partaker: we believe it is perfect, at least the same or from luculentiffi IIilS indicijs trinam eiie, fatcn cogemur i When for om- He becomes a creature the work of the triune Founder gore
C ene vt fe Diuina? treachery Sacred? i things he in (c imprefla vegitgia demonsftret, neceffe eff for they are going; thing, what? fenfibus obijciuutur, ve- a little bit of clay, which; Divinity three-one: pictures Numeromriu
to these some voices echoed reflected, which to in- ftar Echo Founder triune glory secretly I will give them a preface to us let us stick to the note, here is the Abacus of the Trinity of all things let us add
SS. Trias is imprefable to all things. Trinity im. To God arche bank
In numbers. Linear. . Plane
In plants. jArbor. , impetuous In the cloud
CraiiuO In the tree. . Leaf
And this funr, which impreiFa about the Triad in a few I have brought it to be said that the truth is so popularly presented becomes nu- mere God is oddly pleased, every trine perfect. . Orni therefore all tain viable, how impossible ar- his gray hair and his high vanity. veils wood lint the triad marked v certainly every created triad from sterna uncreated Trinity} as if devised by idea for fluxifle, to believe that it is appropriate [Ephi, although I had created between trade triad infinite qua: dam difference in- thrice Of numbers. zf9 to give up for it was created inequality diuifionemj priority and inferiority are connected so- in God's smoke equality, smoke connection even, the identity of 6i exhibits ternality so vt in- God's nil temporary, unequaled 5c iepa- equal, nothing before or after, fed all things equal, infinite
eternal to him they must be censured j so as Monas cuitl The trigonal monad, a triangle with a circle, a circle with a triangle circumference center
the greatest with the least they exactly coincide, because we also hint at the falsehood, Arre noftra Analogica we will teach in a timely manner
So these things triadic wisdom they are fu lciant, wherefore now ad tetradis fiue quatcrnarij mfterium to expose us accinga- mouse Capt III. De Myfterijs Tetradu-, feu Quaternarii
He struck the Monad a pound in advance decrypt the mouse, but the lines between two dyads di- We have extended the triad to the breadth of the fuperficia indi- the life of the mouse would now be wasted, vt in bodily fullness, leaves quaternary in depth to rest spread that U emetiatur potilTimum corporis interualluitL, . For it is a long time ago, the quaternary is the first cor- a porous and leafy number, and produced or pyramid the three-sided, or the cube Each figure divers it is produced in different ways. Prior fic: Punda four, fiuo what The difference of the Trinity created in created? The number four- rius or con he makes a pyramid trilate ram, or Cu- boom Quaternary river eil
Tetraftys found in once again Imr. z6o Myflagogy four vinities the previous ones angle Here the heads end i Lines are broken and differ- they are four fuperficies cover the same content Then they said that the fub was hidden within the borders, and the eyes im- the body of the peruvian ex quaternary That what ternary fub hifce terms i. expand col- you will read, you will have the fertile Monad, and the Angels The ray of the world a penny four, soon will meet the third Monas, the beginning of the choir of animals be de- nor the fertile Monad into the third, i. e it is
in loo. you will lead
of all that is open to the poor, toriiun Hence the smaller bodies of the four elements, where? a fourfold order of genera, Subflantia, quantity, quality, location are accompanied by: Sufficiently appropriate gene system corruption quantity increase decrease tio4 to the quality of the movement of the alterations contrary to the influence, instead of fine the width corresponds. To whom fourfold re- the order of rum, fubfiients inanimate, vientiurnu, fensible They are of the district is supported be brought together
And this is the Pythagorean tetraftys, cousin re- containing rows of rum, , of which when fuse in Mufur gia
Tetraclys therefore is found in all things. . There is chaos in the world four Elements: Heaven in four parts I was born the corners Air in four the winds
Zodiac in four triplicities, four Heavens seasons qualities with four qualities Ele- now Of numbers
mints; fub Element fubftantity, quantity, motion j fub corporeal fubftants, Entities, Vegeta- bile, Senfitiuum Sc Intellc&iuum amount in pun length, breadth, and depth quality in four fecal, cold, hunid, ca lidum-, Movement in touching descending
re- ctum, circular? The earth is divided into four Besides, Tetra&ys is said not to contain things om- nes, when quaternary, vti we stumble elsewhere you can in the power of a penny, of all numbers perfectly mouse dust, becomes the idea of all things, beyond-j which no other number can repent. as in Obelius Pamphilius oftenfuro is lib. 2. chap. io This also Ca- the Jewish people they reduced to ten Sephiroth
which; are divine attributes and menfura, to whom God, God to provide wine, to describe the essence of things they loved. That all things may be made more clear. This is a fourfold victory to be explained instead we married j the first fmplicilfma fiue Mona- say the other JacxJ, decade I have pennies; third-?
hecatontadic fire hundred years fourth celiac disease the fire of the millennium Let's look at the first one fimpliciflimam Self-individual vanity, fciiicer i, successful give the penny's worth, which is the root of fruitfulness said right There are J. the third centenary it is pleased, and it is the preceding one, worth four pennies
That is to say, the fourth quarter of reflects the millennium courage
four monads vti flow pundtr tn Cabal to quadruple ex- I folded. Dedararnr the nature of the tongue clothed mound z6z Mythagogy l'nex in fuperficium
of fuperficia into the body beautiful plicantj fic the first central monas, fertile luperficiaiis, the third square
the fourth day return to be called can And on this account, having been fated at the two ends, He is a millenarian, all the rest of the numbers by acceflurru The Pythagoreans defined themselves as a refuge from them, and it is different Tctraftys she from myfterioia of Pythagoras. True between ti. agonca jUQ pxc u0 p afUebant media, nemp i oo: Himself indeed the root of a penny, the square of a hundred millennium but they called it a cube
Vanitas end di- it is a life, Sevtpundtum; a penny millenary root with the diuifion of the ilmplicit; for it is equally odd
a centenarian with double diuifion, himself vt fuperficiesj for it is divided in Se then
di- for are seen at first in 5oo&5oo; then in Se Again
everywhere it is divided into two parts. Therefore, all the Sicilians are beautiful ex- person fic lovnatn admitting only diuifion, apte Intelligence is applied, by two diuifion animaru
is divided by three properly the corporeal world he was shocked But let's explain it. In the monadic we are contemplated with vanity fimphcifli
notes the will of God: I am the mind of all produdlric divine eften- for eiicntia
in fine cubes the body let's look, thus vthifce the four diftincbs units, di- We find out the reasons for the properties of flin&as For in God all things are God in Intelligence intcl le- Of numbers. ledes, in the soul all souls, in the body everything is the heart pus elt ouod there is nothing else than the Mind everything com pleads either divinely, or intellectually, or animally, alas physically Divine indeed, as the matter is the truth i literally, this is because the matter is not the truth, indeed
animally, this is, as the matter is verifiably, the bodies of the sheep in short, this is what verifiability is about, with u
Nem fubintrat Prima vnitas as a model of all, Prim? Vnii preceding all the multitude, 8c coniequently orn neither otherness, opposition, inequality, long nenr, Sc tametft huiuftnodi vinitas neither binary, nor triple dwarf, nor does it become a quaternary, yet everything is that which are binary, ternary, quaternary, If you re- let the numbers be distinguished, ipfa abvoluta vnitas nu indeed, it is of the highest quality, of no name, of no shape: it is, fed all things in all things nis multitude of genera, -pecierurn fiibftantiarunu, of accidents, of various creatures, the equality of all men, the equality of all aquatic and unequal, the connection of all things of the congregations, as all the vanities tarru an even number rather than an odd number (implicitly fua com- folds, unfolds, and connects with infinite power an unspeakable desire from which to go you will be saved become something else never or never will be or ciie y or you understand that it can be done
be the whole multitude abijeias, ipfam fimpliciili- I have so much courage you will enter it, so that it is rather a fimplice than not a fimplice, no rather, You will prove one thing or another, arcanacromu
Mythagogy You do not know the falsehood that penetrates you. You will see his life least corruptible in fua vanity iUq it is everything, but of this one it is the prececififlima abfolutx of vanity certainty, so that the mind is everything He acts in and through IPFA
nor can a search be done, that he does not presuppose it i for it is the entity of all beings, the quiddity of everything. quidditatum, the end of all things, the end of all things
We have seen the miracles of Almighty Power, now at cice- let's move forward with our passions
The second decade he reflects The intelligentsia Angelica, which when from that infinite vanity first really let him give way, to the necefiario of the intellectual composition of my ceilam forced to enter And there is a commotion from one, etc. , to another. that is, from the opposites, which do not precede it, fed ft- mul arise with ipfa, and are united in it fimpli- tate radicali opopofita ipfa indiuise Scirrefolubilicer
for the nose is the root of the line of vanity; first but no vanity precedes, by the multiplication of which gat, when it takes its first rise
And tametfi a pri- with ma vinity as to what he had done infinite will be missed intervals however, the fimplicitmost of the gods work system is, exam I led the first prom of the Plarium of the Gods Creative for the pride in the adumfe emerging, first produced dya- that which it is a decadent monas, fiue Mundus understand current the image of God washed away immediate exam plar, denarij number, which it matters, the last comple- chin The third centenary of the animaphtic number In- tel lieentia: it is, as squarely explains, intelligence me Of numbers
is the number of vanity absolved, fiue of the first monad; for this intelligence is counted in the soul, while multi- is contracted
God is light it is Intelligence?
because his desire true intelligence light of the soul Qui3 eius vnitas, 6c physical form courage
I was born his corporeal in vain Let's look at it with confidence equanimity is not in le, fed in the soul nor the first, the fimplicifTima abfolutiffirnam and vanity, because it is in faith
let's look at the led in the ipla intelligence, vt ilL by number sign
Therefore, the ratio is not cubic heart the root of the pore, led as the medium, through which the root of the intellectual it falls into the body, is to be trusted; for it is intro mind understanding, and thus the beginning of the root of feu in- ftrumental of corporeal things
Hundreds of coins the soul figure millennial body; rises up even a thousand years a thousand ex the leadership of the denarius centenarian this is, ex multiplication understand through the soul
Everyone for the number is completed by a penny, most of all vinta- tis number continues as the simplest number in the penny
Therefore, in the first life there was a first life ii Mipliciili-, are found in its numerical explanation long time
like a very large number; 8c abfolutte vnionis, intel But the numbers are otherwise nature in order first mother they participate, id it is intellectual difference
police otherness and so on which; number con- they come, they are ip(a desire washed away. Squares indeed al- teritas tk oppofitio, lunt in reason ipfa desire understand btua Mythagogy dual
national libilis vnionum en explanation And just like that full of at birth
a river composed of many, so 6c these desire. The first Faith therefore has faith by way of pundi; fertile through mode lines; the third by way of fuperficia
by way of the body of the fire cube. Where is the desire? complicit that's all, which in the linear, fuperficial porous cheapness, and fuperficial vanity all that, that it is in bodily weakness explains And indeed three previous ones vinities not fenfiable difcretiua: , nothing by the mind ip family, which: lola pundu, line fuperficie I'm afraid had trusted but only the body it reaches
If, therefore, one were to rely on false, mental in fact, he would do the same thing that he, who while he was trying to steal either the line or the luperikie, and imprudently, I will say n he was acting like a fool. Everything therefore it is useful to elute reason, or adjenteili gent am, fiue to the washed away vanity. that become this pasture from all fenfiable rational or intellectual mu t ruJine washed away by vanity, ad reduce the infinite complexity mouse, there is no longer anything affirmative about him
for then you drink it is a stone, than to wolves, fed it is everything, desire viz, God blessed starch. Whence the lust was washed away of that stone God is reliable S1 rational exemplarily, more intcl intelligence is the enemy of the enemy
You can also see from h; s vni- by the way fenfus returns to the system
intelligence and intelligence in God whence it began Sc fumation in pcrfed circulation
Capt IV. TDe Quinario, Senario Septenano
Rimo Quinarius out of vanity added to the quaternary rcfultat, and all material fublunarilque from who generally parties fast fymbolum; for from quadriplegic matter; elementary concoction They all loved each other fennel Sc nature's fubilant issue All the same things the mass of the bodies, let it be all that is which contains bodies, four elements Heaven.
Se- cundo. Number five vti circular number rum first eil
so the same lations only is measured; for whatever turns to the world fifth demunij place and weight in Egypt he returns, and, where less it is, it is coupled at first the sun from this meadow in the east fus, returns in the fifth place to the East, and finishes vital heat, adus fenfniuus, adus rational) phymbo- light eil
Again the Egyptians first per quinary nurae- nmyite'' Rum five living genera digitalis, Author elt
Plutarch, who conce- Piutarchus the first place of the three-form Numen.
he says Mythagogy He says, Geniuses are fertile, Heroes are the third, fourth ho- pious
minibus, the fifth of brutes Plato says in Epinomides, who nose proper Efele Symbol at five o'clock the highest capacity of animals He is an empyrean
successful dus a: thereus, third brass, fourth water, the fifth terreus, he says in the first place, to contain fiery animals
in fertile ethereal in the third air, in the fourth water in fifth terror; to which as many inhabitants of the world they will answer, men, quadrupeds, reptiles, floating SC fly away
all of which they presented in hieroglyphics through po- Lymorphous God I trusted him
Prxterea per quinarium of five souls knowledge nes, then the same they expressed their objections: with which all but the outer wings are tied, alive, heard
smelling, smelling, and touching, and so many parts of the body {The eu organs are repulsing
Ar vum-. It is not surprising, therefore, that Pythagoras only male rario'nume tutis tribuifle Quinaria, with his help
souls have discovered: for the figs quinary it's half dium denarij, thus the soul of all the recenfites from Ilium Quinary number circular it is the middle From which it is plainly clear how the soul is in part cx the individual nature of the Seimmurabili, partly from the division changeable, corporeal participating medium let him hold his place. In addition Quinarius ex oblivion nor of the Pythagoreans, circular fire fphxricus nume- It is called country, and nature defines, which is fig I was very femper returns in faith, so 6c quinary
liquid Of numbers. dem and other numbers multiplied by fe fe growth to in other St define others, foli quinarius ce (enan, in faith, as in the first part of Tomi fruitful in Cabaia He was of the Hebrews, and he was a priest oil he lived
they reflect forget For increase the quinary fiue duc in fe ipfum, you will have squared
it falls again into the cube of will come out The rest; that of the fenario to be understood, cf. vt Qnirariut Senarius miircrus ibs re! ft 'us so
So you see the multiplication of quinarij lenient) even to infinity femper roots, from whom they are produced return; whence merit in the whole number the economy of the roes holds the supremacy; pro-revolution from which the soul was shut off, by which she the pit of beings the rows were stirred at last with clay by act reflection fibi it is restored
exactly in this water circle, of which all end cf. the principle
in Arij preferred Mythagogy The scenario is supported by a double dyad, and it is facra Gcnefi hexameron fymbolum. Scenario Surely Quinarius had the greatest knowledge of the lenfus i ettednru he distinguishes and counts, so Sc fenarius all mate Coryphaeus ria, cm knowledge diipertiendarn numcrandamqutj He went to him, Coryphaeus of perfedtorum numbers, from dia- drawn into the triad, crushed And how quinarius dcfignat reuolutioneai anmre, viti Plato he says NrmerusSe through the five orders of fensible things fibi tan- naiius reprf dem in pundio from which it flowed rettitutx
Jution note t reuol use ejuatuor vnitatum ab- tatum in no way; for the growth flat circularly re- let me use abfo-diens y fenario is counted. Vnitas is blown away, Juuini
washed away coincides with infinity intellectual with understand actual, the rational with the rational, the vinitas fenfiable with reliable ends at e. . All incomparable ambition indi- reliable and incorruptible it is whence Vanity is not absolute intellectual otherness shareable nor intelligible, snow in rational other tate; nor rational, nifi with ipfa fenfiable. No at- God, therefore, is dyed, who elt ablutions desire snow in- teldually nor is intelligence reached snow reason in any case; nor the reason, the snow is fenfibly
He defends itaqao Vanitas washed away death infinity understand the actual into the rational, and rational fensible; only but the fenfiable retroadh afeendit in rational, ra- national into intellectual, intellectual, finally lu- the premundane and inclining vanity: are properly indicated, for the principle flowing wind you Of numbers.
tis, the end of the refluent, coincide in the swept away spirit, - the end of the flow and the beginning also coincide backflow you courage reliable and they are doubled media, yes
diametrical chords circumference fubtenfae, circles they completely mend the environment they complete it, no leku in afcenfu and died surrounded by courage the beginning of the infinite. From which it is clear that say something else to shed light, how dark to ignite j by no means for it is another thing, God in the world, than the world in God
nor another thing to advance in power, than the power to act nor any other eff darkness the light to raise, than to light into darkness cut down" re v, and finally nothing else it is power material: ad turn form to advance, which form of adual im the potential of defecating matter You see, then, how the menfura of perpetuity SitAvnity washed away in- intellectual B, rational C, fenflible D, in which erases flow of vanity, begins the ebb and flow of vanity by burning from D fenfibilis into the rational E, from E in F intellectual
at last in vain clay, and it becomes like figs fex Mythagogy rio adfcripta exiftat, how it was vaniuerralifnmum itL. fpccialilTimum, fpecialiflmium in vniuerfalifTimujru let him go to Egypt. No wonder then it is dwarf rum. rr
of God polymorphic how if you slip Eembina: it is clear from the explanation, they impressed
The sevenfold demiurge of his monads: through hexarne ron into the vanity of the rest of the fire of the Sabbath revolution: first for God polt Goeli and Terr. v produdtioneru he did lu- on the first fertile day He made a support in the middle of waters; Thirdly, he produced a vegetable nature that to the Luminaries, the Sun, the Moon; fifth cheer up know the nature a man with a sword created first He rested from all the work he had done
like a leaf I was pressed number do it is expressed Septenarius Whence We celebrated seven years The oracles nu- the mind is broken, We are filling ourselves with myilcris, so clever advertise rat m. 'fleiia {lirmcjue decus obtener, i. e. numbers among them, who in They are included in the denarius, the figularim, and the exceptional prf of the rest let him have reason. For they should beget others, not pro- are created let them beget others, let them not beget; both of them I do not; a simple fool does not procreate any of them, nor from whom it is procreated. Vnitasenim vti principle om- without number, anger begets all the fertile ones Septenarius 2. 34. gignunt4. 6. p. io. yet they are not born; ve- whether nor ro, i. they do not give birth Led are produced, Septena- beer garden neqi
but the river is not nigigmt, nor is born, when not have below fe the number i in which it is born nor within dena is born
whether Of numbers.
rium becomes like that which it begets. Stand up from here
old bus P thagorads symbol it was Dictic Remorse of all, as those who are immovable becomes I was not born
nor be restrained from giving birth; which; Piutarchus twice with words fall off bit
He is the Lord and Prince of all things, God, we ftabiliiy lacking in motion, I was a child, other dif thousands, twofold beings Choir Jiipatns. Obcauiair it Pythagoras this number Minerua from Jupiter True symbols they poured. This prje cteteris in fumma fem- they had by veneration, of all things clay. . ftatuenres: for here in the whole world the genera of beings denotes, in let us go to the outer world Princes spirit you in the firmament of the Zodiac fire configurations Alpedus of the Signs to the other side
planetarium Heaven feptem Errones, in Elemenrari as many metals nera, in Microcofmus as many principal members, im. Moon feptenas the guns and four feptenes
Since therefore the whole of Egypt vniuerfurrL. if they should see Ognatius in this number of five hundred, it would not be possible they exiled, without any 8c hidden jm. the fub would hide the murder
Sc feptenarium fublunarcm fic, III. Ccele- through three lines a quadripartite circle fub a crescent in three lines a cross lii fibj which hidden de- Scptenanus with honor at ptios
One nerve fetenario I will burn fi- I am grateful to him Mythagogy they denoted a five-year-old feu vniuerfale first No- threats to power as well when from a triad into a tetrad and first into the cell, then moved into the basement revolution the fafia is reflected in the fibi. That myAerii. iru pukh r e us through charades hieroglyphics limbo foriij Ohrid is presented to the citizens of Fupramundani, where feb you n circles quadripartite and as many Ciuces order They are placed in Egypt, which are preceded by streams and clay crosses three lines, fepteuv Mundorum feptemplici claffiu or They deserve it. eat the Symbol of Diftmdor. . Thus the first world is presented by
Sc A quadrilateral circle. . which parts of the world are assigned to each tribe lines pr. e- fixed, they made a feptem hebdadts of things of that world do it in the following order imaginary worlds three quadrifides li- neas- to add as things keys to whom I taught the world they were fused, they were to be told mysteriously. . They express the same through Cross upon joining ternary lines, see let it be diffused throughout the insane world. But my- Illusion let us open. - A world first AichetypumL. they called Hempbta, flue Gftrin fupramundanuin
first I am the vanity of things triforme Second World he is angelic, ravaged by calamities according to the dogma of the Egyptians ma dolphinus, into which the cat of the fupramundani Oliridis you want it will be The third world is a material one orbit tis planetary conflicts The Fourth World elt void of mothers bodies, I'm stuck of metals fpecies to be rich The Fifth World vegetable in the flesh as well keys of the living distributed. - The Sixth World efl Senfttiuat nature; in fetme fimiliter clafles dtfpofi- you Of numbers.
Seventh World cft Microcofmus man, in fep- ptem ftatus diuifuspolt cjuem in fe ipfam redit fupremu God And these are the most important degrees eat bread in general distributed which hieroglyphics The diagram shows
You see, then, how I got out of that Monad And the archetypes, as it were, flowed from the center, first understand The earthly world is filled with the principal Geniuses ruled he will come forth fortified with mine how she then cried out as if into a circle from the material world, He has produced a well-decorated dance of the Planets
po- Hea the world of the inanimate, the earth I say, He brought forth a fetus of the kind of metals hence vegetable the natures of the world plantarii m. He has cast down the diftin with swords t lust for fenfitiua: na- ture distributed among the ranks of the animals strikes Finally, the human Microcofm of all com- it will be established by the fulfillment of the Monads and the infinite center receiving abifium fe, from one's work, that had achieved rested
The Egyptians were so aptly fotted by Mun- gift expreliie, vt to the hexameron work by Mofe defcrib- then they should be seen as refpexifle. I went with that's all you- fius on the Table: We will deliver the Bembinse refinement, here let it only be indicated
Oblonaiius rises from the double quaternary, fen- and fibilium cuboidum pn dtu in
prp u s p o l Monad cube in fact, I am happy with becomes understanding the issue of numbers all (que to the multitude; principal pious, all became among the regular numbers dom u. auitL.
O&onarij mydleyia. A paradox move
O#onario number hate N umi- define bam Egypt zy6 Mythagogy win For monas is the first trine, squares the first, the first pentagon, the first pyramid cube in short, the first, vti none liveable friendship ci u, so also the first cube elt at the end of the corners, at the end widely with rice, because monas is the whole corner, the whole side, the whole the bus so much so that in the unlearned monad line Ipecie, fino any variety of parts complicated they suck the rest of numbers from the monad efflux, they swim Odonarius was therefore the first of the Monads
for twice a generates the first square times generate the first cube, the appropriate lanehy- for the Mun- dus hylteus trusts to the four elements, thus the lesser Mun- man, except that from the fourth element depends on the combination of things, especially also qua it seems to blow up; namely, the soul, the fubftants intelligence, voice and writing, for tefle Plato- lest, the soul of Megacofmi to the whole world, so my soul erocofiru has the abode of my body whence The square of the first cube is the square of the two the composition of the emerging phymbolus I will be Again, how Septenarias feptemj It is a symbol of beings, the anger of Octonarius the Egyptian Genius fme of the principal Gods
to whom fe- The world is governed by the jtemplex, Symbol it was and and by reason, Martianus tefte, from Pallas Amo- in reality, that is, from the node, and the divine spirit in a certain way he wakes up Hence the Qrphteus whatever Diuinanu vo. Of numbers.
He wanted to show off his justice, by Odonarius I swear he had gathered, by whom 8c fummx of things to rule di- Euander was eating: the Fire is swift, Water, Earth, Co- the light, the Sun, the Moon, Mythra the Nodes Hence the Egyptians expressed him or through or I will infuse the smell of rays through the circle
In the column too hieroglyphics, tefte Diodorus, they put the Odor of Numina tur, Saturn, Rheo, Ofiris, Spirit, Heaven
na, Night, Day. Nineteenth year from in the triad, the doubter in faith, so much Nouenarij; more mysterious it is, how many triads triple involucion, dunx its square makes it bigger it contains faith myth For like three fummi of that The good first prince) is number, but smoke is Good and the first principle a feast from the faithful going in the same flitting vinta- thee, fub of the gods, will be adored by the triad, beautifully fane eleefeit, how to indiuifa htec tri-unity rerurm the creator of all will give birth to a threefold nouenariurn. Ange- the first to be betrayed immediately by God create towers offshoots
noiiente orders hot you will become symbol of division the light they are meeting mother j propitie in aid the figure is clear, where. fuperimenfii Tri- nitas fimplicilTima in- reliable desire to the outside moving fe tripling, three hi- Mythagogy rare of international minds Monarchies three dances He produced diifributas, which SS. of the triad fi- marked with gnaculo: , the same first, next Self im- they express a mediate image in faith, which man four internal, himself five foreign powerful it matters
for here Which is so quickly referred to in this Ennead, vt or ipfi Gentiles, nelcio quo inllindtu, refpexiiie vidan- tur, while the new Mufas orbium cxleftium prxfides In- intelligence, to indicate the harmony of the world
difpo they have been; rather than the Mecubalim of the Hebrews he refpexii here they seem to have been tripled by this nouenary
three fold the world, angelic, Star Se Hylxunu Seraphim. Mind
Cherubim Intelledus Polyhymnia. throne
Principality. OlfaiStus Calliope
they needed it, according to the difpofition of the mythical alphabet, vti it is done, who here he likes to refer to curiosity, known that analogy: anything of this kind real in Nature: pour Of numbers.
Ang. Arch. At first. Can A. See Dom. Thr. Cher. Scr.
Moon Merely Fri. Sol. Mais 'upp. Satisfied Pinnacle I. Mob.
cf InteiURation Senf. Veget. Inanim. Tcrra. Aqu3. Aer. igms. Where you see first for the first time nouenariutn Al- the wise, the angelic world is indicated, in which none earthly entwined with the mantle of a miflion: minds.
I am the mother of the literati, as well as of the Hebrews D''t3X7ort Q7iy. The world: they are called angels: to whom uk yields next to this World, that World of Spheres they call, thVjfon a letters then fixed, 6c contains the first Mobile, firm chin, with the rest of the melting of the planets orbs They call the Third World rniDTt nbiy Mun- while the foundations, through the third part of the Enneaus of letters. to be represented, and there is a world of elements, whose of the Worlds it is wonderful between le and a fe pendent, thus vt di Angelici, the elemental veritable fire of fire fi- derei 8c Angelici. Because, however, all this is of no avail. the reefs of fuprema Monad archetypes influence let him approach
hence the fuprema added to the vanity, the liet of the whole created by nature A penny; for here flowing into Angelicus, and here go faithful 6c here in Ekmentarem, everything accomplish they animate, they incite, they strengthen, they make perfect Mo- A rcaniMi- a nun Nausea
zSo Mythagogy Added monad of the Ennead of the Worlds Hebrew let them go Infinite
fed already Chains of things na Let us explain the turals, by which they reflect here
Another secret in the nature of things is discovered, which cannot be explained by any numbers can
And who damex Archetype impromptu system, which the worker rerurm splendour, the ranks of the creatures of the world were so numbered, from then on spread many clafles, to which it is said it will be called again, from the numerical confection cognizance of politics
And then in everything, then podfTimumhi vegetable nature? The economy fpeclant Members of the plant are feptwin, root, fcapus, cortex, leaves, flowers, fruits, female Are they a plant? which enjoy only one root
They are as follows: the roots that are clothed are dying, vtorchides, man dragora, gentiana j alite root triple root, vt Helenium and Fimilefque
There are in some fcapi, the internodes of which are in a certain way in proportion to the length grow up
they decrelcunt, viti Phu, which they call Valeriana, Erythro- Danish, hippuris flue cavalry, Elder: some- rum stems they are smooth, three-quartered, quadra: , vti menta- flrinn aquaticum, Vlmus fcabiofus, others Hifce's daughters. let us contemplate the numerous array of leaves, pulleys Of numbers.
ijs a huge nnmerofe the difference of confection rc let's close they have some; one way leaf whence the name was obtained, vnifblium; other three, viti trifo- innumerable others; fpecies another quatrain, which; to stems the intermediate fe vt went out a great deal; vti tetraphylla: they are again pentaphylla, heptaphylla, according to the natural of numbers scattered in the herbjs of many leaves folding
He has here grass stem various internodes diflin while, of which clays leaves fub continuous angle the quality of the rum is produced by the tanner nature; iridiflria, vt stems to height tequinodialis be twisted, ad fitum auftro-boreum, not incongruously horologimij
which they call a; fortnightly, let it rest, whose stem by crossing the center in the leaves the shadows passed for hours, which leaves they express, demonflrat: a strange nature; a joke But we love to move forward to numerous flowers fo- I could, whose proper it is determined by the fub nu- I merely, according to the various species, present my proper form. In Fig leaf, tears, frudus, the same efl. Almost all the flowers they enjoy a certain number of leaves, to whom from the center to the circumference as if in certain rays diff you are crazy, the wonderful beauty of flowers is expressed: they are flowers of two, of three, four times, five leaves and so on infinite, whose I took the clay from the number of leaves they strengthen the nomenclature, which; frudibus feminibuf- that happens to an expert phytopta; it will be clear: neither quifpiarm myfterio carere ceu feat, that worker in nu- me from Flowers z%z Mythagogy mere, weight, and menfura as well diffused be who then from more mysterious of nature to the explorers of Phytoptis It was bferuatum, several plants ipecics, who they conflate the rays of the sun, the flowers, the leaves I say, their natural powers are so much in harmony with each other
they perish, that is to say, they are certain in their vegetable nature look for Numerically, the chain to whom medical Afluniptis compositions, wonderful strength in the manner of tend to say; and it is evident in the five species of pentaphyllum a bus in one alumpe At least five of the fingers ra- I will say which the palm tree Chnlti they call it, I am ingenuous the care of the hands attached to them to presftare; to whom planted you will join the quinqueneru, hands, and a foot take care; nrentaflrum aquatic with a square stem quarter:
for triquetra to heal the third let them say j so great is the number in the members of the plants, that there is nothing in the figs feint something, mysterious charadteriflni flow ligatures from which, in such an interior character ta- The issue of the plant: notice is given to us, about which see fuse Agent Io: Carrying the Baptilla in fua phytognemia, Sc us in the Egyptian Oedipus Tom. lLSintagm. V. dc me- day ina Egyptian bieroglyphtca, lib. of Artus magnet as much as possible the argument of the matter we drank, to which we sent away the curious Le&orus. Plays Sc numerical nature completely fnnili just in criiballo topazio-, ametbiflo eeterifquc prices stones in which some Nature in triquetra. . some into a tetrahedron, another into a hexahedron
quatrains hay, twelve, a hundred side by side cem le quorum genefi vibrimus, when in lib. Mun We have reasoned with the underground, that they should stay here we don't want
He plays in the numerical kingdom of animals color diversity: indeed in animals, the birds potilFi- mum, we see some in one, some in two, others in two pinches
four colors, some also innumerable im- buta fpedamus Which: ad certain claffes by identity numbers reduced, one of them is of threefold nature: Re- gno orders
they will be able to lubricate the chains, ma- lists of things in the nature of seas
The mental outflow of the workers and workers above we said I stopped you from desire she is unworldly ar- chetypa, first through the triad three-one to enter, from xtei- i in that ineffable truth of eternity pundfc from a to outside
through the quaternary of the whole corporeal nature ambi- then, and all the orders of things that were produced, through in- You spoil so many intelligences. And first of all in maf- fam hyltea fiue dementarem: for whatever body rum material fenfes out of four of them re- rum cmniurn princijs elementis compofitum day I will go Itinerary ecstatically Through the quaternary therefore the archetype in Angelic intelligences triple
Mythagogy then he wandered into the four-parted periphery of the world he came out rapture while fuprema, medium, the beings of the world are united in number in four munis di plagas, Auftrum, Borea, Eurus and Zephyrum, ner the four triplicities, fiery, airy, watery, and earthy he differed Whence soon? divine mind sun god by angelic minds the annual court in four days The seasons of spring, summer, autumn, winter: to whom, by a certain analogy, the ages of men, boy ntta, adolefcentia, virility fene&us refpondent, vt that life: the beginning began in the spring, that in the he would stew and cook in. autumno vitae tranfiSx fruit he would betray us, at last he was lulling himself in the winter kill then he would leave, fub the beginning of spring re- he will tell
and it becomes huiufinodi outflow in quadruple cem naturae Inanimatte, VegcTabilis, Senfibih's, di Ratio- nal degree, the learning of which is from the first four with the elementary qualities v hot, moist, cold; fic It depends on what they are composed of. Let's sit down Let's move forward
He rejoices the nature of the number of five hundred. archetype obviously the world to go first the spirit, who in the confped of God a perpetually long nose are contemplated Ideas whose prsefidias ordered the planets to be faithful to vmurfi they are ruled and governed by good. In the firmament which that to fepteiri Vrfia lklSas for the benefit of the sailors
Moon: equally of the fourth leptemdialiurrui a period of days fpacio made, whose burdens I trust the world with the metal fpecies then Of numbers. aSf then, gold, iron, ftrannuro lead, Mercury in a mineral nature, in vegetable the nature of the members tem, which are the roots of plants, stem bark branch leaf, flower, fruit, food fliurn draw I will go rnicrocofmo exterior feptem members breakfast, that put, ce. ruix, feet, mantis, belly. groin, feet
in the but I was afraid of the worse vafi-vita: , which: are the brain, heart y flomachus, lien, safe lungs, kidneys, Z hearts are {they are thrown away. Give the gods the gifts of the Spirit through the flesh Sa-nfj pter feptem mifericordke works iaHuit in annuas, qcxeis corroborated, for comfort the children of God to him whence they flowed. are returned. . The penny is already let's sleep Harmonic penny efl;
Dsamj the worst: all cmra numbers bread impa- and rhythmic differences, all proportions harraomcas will be completed, as is clear from the quaternary expansion who can Tenth of a penny eff; indeed of the young woman a penny i vt fic confided all anger harmonies keep the in proportion for in aci dupla yepetkurqua: d Mu ficis rm is called: in to (the ekjuitertia proportion really fluctuates where: it is AaVfTs
triple tCiaVgfife in finally to the fourfold proportion of ema- nat fingers sfvrePtanarw To whom they were able to do so articialk, fed& the world's greatest mu fica with Arn Gaelic. and the most important of all Chorago God Qpf. Maxr
dream For before their workman vnkatcjmu. Denarij chain
Mythagogy he would share in lower things) ex in vain fua ar- chetypa into ternary and quaternary, and finally go a penny, as if in ten Ideas menfura om- examples of the number of things to be done it spreads; for glasses are a penny another number, mfi re- folded, not given can coming back in vain fuuirL. the principle, the fuprema mind joined nineteen rerun He makes the created penny which ancient Mytho- log through the new Mufas Apollo no unfortunately from they were first This flock of nine Angels chorus I will go divided into three hierarchies, with the God of all corrole they make a penny with their chin; In fcientijs of the whole iyKvtcto- fubftance
morals of the Law, ten precepts vtriuf which is the completion of the Law prxliant
Which; everything here (ie said to the Hebrews making fun count by ten sions, which the Sephiroth call feu enumerations, expri- they lied to me, as it is plainly evident from the inefficacious fchemate, about how meritorious the whole machine of the Hebrews is turned. So there are ten rwnfiD (football numbers vcfli- the minds of God, with whom he rushes forth in the creation of the world, They call; of which the three superior, the most spiritual, and intellectual, most of them n. by which they allude to the Mylician Dtuinx From the court I ze- chiele decriotum: Seven indeed lower are called mctfNia nttfyo work mundanx fabric they call and are ten ancient names, of which the first three emanations they call, but the rest I fett, call attributes, ijfque they apply to the members of the human body, not to us in- thrice Of numbers.
I will search for God in a figure: or liibffantia: Exiflat fi- military service vri re&e S. Dionyfms, fed members fo- In the same way as a certain intention. This same b caufam Dea's heart, eyes, ears, mantis, feet (que m ferrs They are attached to letters, not that to body members yis God the right proportion attitude prsftfe- tat, fed that becomes ipfo altilfimo lncomprehenfibrlbQgo beings being something lntiinfecom ineffable, and totally a. from which they flow, and that altifli- temgeadar of the seas, of the fallen, in the mind that misunderstanding It denotes the nature of things, whose human To them the limbs were improperly attributed to God, and they were not tied to the rope and typed, therefore the intention of the numbers is thousands third I swear, no menlur, no number of mass that,
ccetcrafqtis qualitiesjfed thin qaandum vmbratile- that of the diurnal virtues (as far as attached to the images of the accused, according to the numerous species of crows can take dung! i' what analogy present' aper-' ten enitn hafce counts, as if by channels quot- give, God per- Angels in the World fldcreom, hence into a demented state, and so much more did I love to be born x broken- I am a thief flows in First of all they put the ball bright tenebrofura, which marks the Divine efficacy, 6e Enjzp- is called that is, infinite, with many limits, and you will become experous from which all influence flows. What feretiorcs fle- brxcnim Ten theologians daily rtOEnini&tos exp insin i altogether ten fummas, quar in ipfo fiones-, with whom I find a fertile secret wow- I will as many Angelica of nature orders attiibaan Table influence Sephiroth
And: in the flamable world there are as many movable bodies Icilius fyftemata: in the microwave as many members of the principal rums confections God so by de- cem names, which are his battlements, into the world of An- Gaelic, through the same then into the faithful world de- I would mention, 8cper the same fine in microccfmu m, qua: yet the analogy, as we have said to be false, does not effectually influence anything
And these are ten counts, from whom the Hebrews to bring the created world together they deliver And the first: those three should be properly entrusted to God as intrinsic, co- three, infinite, about which R. Ilaac Comm. fate rah. the three numbers are Ketber, Cocbma, Binab
Sancius, Holy Lord God of Sabaoth And what The ancient Hebrews had another account of this number triad they want I do not see, nifl SandiiTimae The myth of the Trinity
ta- metfi juniors moles blind men, nor her to acknowledge if they will, 6e through it the snows indicate three properties: of to whom than very large thorn see in Kabbalah He- of bras, than in II. part of Oedipus Egypt we delivered And these things efl registration of ten counts fire himself phiroth, one with channels
through whom one al- it flows in again, and there are so many, as in the Hebrew alphabet letters, videlicet effic lyftema in three parts for a long time smoke, the first of which indicates the archetypal world with Angelica, fruitful the world fidereum; the the world would go mad this meadow, they say, God through He pours the angels into the world (idereum
here demented, and they brought nothing in the archetype au- Channels themselves. it's crazy with nails al- He Braic wood Diiodcnarij blind
Mythagogy to the Gaelic world, which was not fub a certain it is done in a reliable )clemeatari microcofmo
Total of this let him see the philosophy of philosophy Leftist in noftra Caba, where whatever to distrust will be able around this mate riam, he will find plenty of cars
For us, even numbers we would go beyond the bounds of myth, at this point no as well explain, than infer only cheap it was
But now to the infused matter, in which the duodenarij you want to explain, let's move on
The duodenarius rises from the two and three triads in the tetadreir, from the newspaper, the triune monad, in the nature of creation ternary, as in rum to be shaped it seems aflumpfiife. From here tem fupernse leuvfalem
gates, and as many foundations Ioannes decripts the broken mind, where my friend later fire anagocic fenili vniuer (itarem faluandoruivu tribes Ilreel in law
who Euan They destroyed the ice over three-fourths of the world a waste to repair mortals, indicated it was, vu therefore three times four make so the four-sided world no one in the faith of the Trinity not to be mowed down I could even though through laundry the leg of regeneration, which by the Luther of Solomon
the cow was fed up appropriately is indicated. Because the man at the end of the things of the Necefarians not to live can
hence in fiderio mimdo rSokmcx auidro in the boream, himself on the contrary, through the twelve signs of the Zodiac and as many men
vt those things which con- lfitutafuemnt, pcr twelve menfiuna annual fpacium Of numbers.
to the same concurrence they conspired from every side. He finally reached the end of his life, complete with mortality they belong to life: therefore not in facts letters through the duodenum is explained, which is not ad difta let him reflect
But now how, by and by Plato and Pytha goric, to be explained
It should be known it is the Egyptians, to be fixed by God male safe, geometrical, as in most figures (which Plato even, himself Pythagoras made them do it Laertius
Or a triangle with flat three equal sides Sc is called Iphopleurus or two only, and it is said lfolceles; or three la- uneven ground, he is called Scalenus By ifopleu- equals
ron diuio itatis triformis into the physical world for ceifum (whence tefte Plato, of the corporeal world prelude bus Di js was called) by Iphoicelum, procefium eiufdtixu in trust by Scalenus of the three angles uneven of whom before return
the other the third double it is A world of change, this is insane: around
Jum Plato I raise zyz Mythagogy but the foliar light of the triune God nature like lust it will be said, they were aptly characterized. But how is this order? the Platonic nous fuse, He conducts himself beautifully, vt (he rides
How indeed Plato from the mind of Egyptoru rru four regular figures composed of fcalens, of which one corner reduced, the other two one third footed
re- liquid but let him have the same third part it is one of its angles is 5o. the second the third steps becomes j with hucufoue Commentators his hidden no- The smoke of the various parts of the rat is geometrical to demonstrate the reasoning in this place. First so- which carried the equilateral triangle A B C, from whose angles A B C diculars AD, CF, &B E, and the archilateral triangle in the trian fcalen throats, all equal, and fjrails, vti they see the numbers, whose figures are in one corner gum, and the remaining two, in part 5o, partly thanks two things
jnfiftant, which end in points. A B C triangle lum which, finally, in the middle of the sides in pundtis F D E they trust
and the sides are strengthened in that proportion, according to the numbers
they have quorum sayderium after all will be explained Of this kind therefore a triangle they now said it was genetic, just the nuptial figure, which is the beginning of generation the fublunary of all things this to pad By bafrn B A marked the beginning of the cloths of things, humiduou fol. Type tnyBicm cAephius lerufalefrt duodenary comprchenfm
viz, I will j by the normal C B ipfi A B in- fiflentenr, they alluded to the beginning of things a&hsum
by A C but the hypothenia from the truth obstacle let it be Of these. let's see wool, like this rriangubs Ifofccle quickly fcalenQ as if first principles four figurati r-egujares, collequente four choose mints those of the children They are symbols, they are produced. Third
in fact the symbol of the ivory was thus made Ifoicdem A B G they quadrupled
ScproLtcniebat square. A B B D this dudumin S conftituehat the cube A B E O C F G. so vt fo fce les, Pro- I refuse it will happen the first prince of the earth Moreover, the fire of Syra was a bolus, a pyramid leu so I trusted. The Tetrahedron four it will be finished the triangles of which in any case again
for a little before there was an ofienfiun, according to the law of Scaleni. it is concluded
divided into they produced genetic Scalenos (ata- for I would lay it down we will call of this kind triangle lum) pyramids therefore tetrapieu ra this meadow no fire so much fed the whole Vniuerfum, in which
fiery want I was spreading my faith secretly, he noted but this I pado i you the body they were conducting it. Triangulum Iphopleurus A G Dy fubdiuidentes. I would do two things, they made two Scalenes. B A G, B AD. indeed, they marked the beginning of the Nu- threats from the world archetype into the world alteration Myflagogy bus change expo Him
these Scales I would split. again fertile they were producing Ifofcelia B F A, B E for heaven of God through the influence fydereiim indexes: these Ifofce les -iter bifaria fecabant through line F E
they were producing four triangles Iphopleuros A F E, F E B, E B D, F C B: with which they are folded ctfor They ate the first of all the leafy bodies of Tetra- ifopleuri dron, the triad going away into the tetrad, that is, the triad arose yours
Pgura q Uatuor of the planes, at the end of the three-sided pyramids, cx three the bus was driven from the corners of the twelve corners, and I came to the Vnica in this figure they would have all the whole world as well I trusted how crazy you are
Trigonus cmm triad fua He expressed the generation of things, as long as the desire is met, quaternary sides, elements three and four with they gave the world's faith a request place confetti in circles of nets, twelve corners, Aplancs, The twelve signs of the zodiac denoted the dimenfions j shape was sharp pyramidal, by which they alluded to fire
that the Elements, p! aoetas, Aplanem, everything in the word per- oahedron to reap Now with the Odaedron from the smell Iphopleuris Geneva fiue of equal sides triangles would be crushed, where- rum vnufquique again ex the law of Scales genetic con- is done
Finally, when lco- Of numbers.
The icophaedron is composed of equilateral triangles vnufquif- jco&tda but all of them were of the Scales family i hi du&i They give geneva Scalenes, from whom as the princes of the icophaedron It is confounded, and hence the Symbol in water it was af the noise
We therefore have in the Tetrahedron a pyramid of already Odahedron in Icophaedrus, in short, Scalenos gene- tics, from whose comparison Plato from the Egyptians And learned Pythagoras, for notice it comes out of proportion of the elements, than each to the other ol- holds Islam because fire, air, water for the first
All these things in faith I will never return I bloomed, and can be exchanged, the earth, I say, with the rest three but three airs, water, 8i fire for the common lin gulis genetic origin, in fe inuicern a&u difioiui, to be exchanged
He also signified y which in numbers of triangles, of which ever from the first prince js the three tlemen are joined together, the ratio being the same in teeth rarity fubtantix between fire and air water proportion
As soon as fire is extinguished, it becomes twice as rare as water ve. ro fourfold They have feet Fig. scalene tetrahedron Odtaedrr Scalenos Icophaedri Scales Cubes the lands of Smbolum, v t i from heterogeneous, namely Ifofce le is composed of a triangle
so also with the rest three bus- Elements from this ipfo cannot be exchanged eat judge ftibdle, however, I cube Earth: Symbol of some worldly harmony: controlling Harmony M tmdi nu- mere ex-; prdla
Mythagogy he knew from his parts, vi delectet cx flat weed, two- in ten lines, hate the corners of the leaf, twenty cjuatuor place nis, from which the cube corfiht, id efl: proportions har- beads to double, tuning fork; to p. make the other, diapente
But besides these four treacherous figures regular They saw the fifth one too, when they were too tired pentagon three of which are combined into one, a leafy corner they would make, and in this way they would complete the figure of twelve beaks, fiue twelve hundred, as bodies, which are natural trust they would completely ignore mathematics
which; Pythagorean He made the Egyptians, therefore they said they were the first of natural things principles
And this dodecahedron Vniuerfo addcribe- bant, not, as some think, quintx fuerlu naris, fed to the fifth great body of Vniuerfi, I am looking for in the first bodies with threadbares. This is what I paid for igitur, with the twelve pentagons of the Iphopleuros, of which in any case in five Ifofcelia was divided
so im. to be co-opted eat they would see that nothing was left empty between the commissures of the sides
and moreover these m in the center circles to be joined twelve pyramids pentagoria to trust
through the twelve sides of the dodecahedron, the first twelve branches of Zo- diaci, which they said was the boundary of the whole world
they were carrying for these faiths are influenced by the radiant influence of some of the fiellas in the center of the united earth, as many pyramids bantpentacdras, twelve penetrals, through which Numi Of numbers.
they would flow into the lower world of whose mythical reason; when Obelilcus Pamphilius Iarn we have done, Ledor will trust him. who- very much so these twelve pyramids pentahedra you were in the center of the three vertices connected so aptly con- they join together, i. e. they leave no intermediate void} the life of the world is made through the gods, which of the twelve Zodiacs they trust so diffused throughout nothing becomes
because he does not participate in it. Again how with bus the lands of Fymbolus from It is composed of Ifofcelis, so from pentagons the dodecahedron; in which case myth
I know what is hidden I will come to you they noted Zodiac with the Earth from whom all together they were called Nafei. For the ficus from the division of Ifofcelis, of the pentagons in the dodecahedron are born Scaleni, so the earth, in the first place, and ex by the motion of the planets fiub ii Firmamenti (which become like a certain principle (acliuum) the branches and their influx into the land of Fado
fcunturScaleni genetics, this eil, everything in the fenfiable world different kinds of beings
So you see, how from the first fimplicilTi- my lines Self figures, to bodies genefin and so on They proceeded in a mysterious corporeal nature
And just like that by a circle with a center, a radius, and a circumference trine, ruo only three-one divinity thus through the triangle a: who the sides of the three-one divinity in works of creation become become the exhibitor, for a while ago, they noted
circle indeed, nothing begets, as a complement, himself of polygons the greatest of all infinite sides with Myftagogiar-i conference stay away fiolitaria it forms a trinity but the triangle is the principle of the whole generation, of all of the rest, of the five figures of polygons, at the end of the body. rum vt a little before oftenfum He was the father eld. This one Ifolceles is next the earth: alum j which is made Scalenurrvredangulum ad fu fi ma genetics the wonders of nature to be told Let him trust re- Dangulum Scalenus, because I was a fool three widely unequal burdens, and the same number of angles. , redo one, SL two sharp: through the melting of the red
8c unchangeable problem of nature in working out the law j through the other two one major fubduple motion augmentation by the third reduction of fubfequiaherum that they indicated the reason Along the beach line learning rem BC, which: they were jrfigning the beak of the triangle
tefte Plutarch, the principle of many things, especially the earth, fiue Iphide, through the normal reda to him infifiente B A the principle of things adiuumiformam, Ofirimiue Solem through the hypotenuse that connecting line, composed of these fi- They pointed out a point from each of the backs, viz. , a little before we have also said But let's just see secret tone, fub quote Of numbers
Scaleni figqv. jecctiddysp. The sides of this fe have to in- uiceum, Gcuti
shape it is clear where you see triangle Ilopleuro ternary number. four- fium iub iioieele, but the quinarium was contained by Furthermore joined they make twelve
Vr. de ficuti nu- mere in numbers$, line: in li- to them, figu ra in figures i rpplijci- I hold you, so everything will go
Eat them hidden hifcep etc (ifl. JU
in return jfccatombs you. eit. p. latus. B. Qitfcviftj fe' prthagori frum cohffituit- nstquafi nui iun$a conllituiinutan- then, how much side A 'C in fed up, namely a great mystery in qVlatfematicis, 6c imientionm in- wild of the finite ab: first intended by the Egyptians
Pythagoras In truth Laymen I was by name propagated by which the purification of the body, and of the whole vniuerfi ge- nefinper genetic triangles
Further the rest: all are numbered glasses dena rium form, implicit in the monadic decade. 4om5fteri3 They have a lot of smoke nurneroruFnque. m the first decade. They swore myfWia they reflect
labdriofi of this time Sai iT that cfmentile alludes to which (where read advetfLs. Sa- hide is noted Concertation, from i r said fasting
Christian I am inyfi. oo Mythagogy Chrifti, Mofis others clearly it is clear Iterum oiunc uc in io du6ta, daot remHfioms and it is a symbol of indulgence, and it is known as Pentecost, which day
I want a refurreation Christ, Holy Spirit fcpra Apoptotos appeared and it is the great Saturday Saturdays at the end of the world Sacramento, where I was chosen in the strength of the children of God, and eternal happiness At this time they were constantly resting, from their labors, tribulations they will impose an end While I was writing this, the same thing happened to me at the time The gospel of the pifcation of Peter Crifti Refurre (ftioncm, where from with great fish in the land at the end I mention the outage of the network it becomes And so whom I would like to believe, as to the fignification of myths
pifces, not many in number vfitato expreffi? Dr This is the number of people who have been killed in the country. Symbol of flocks, who from worldly dangers full of temptations, and great merits, at the end re- you evangelical rupture, in the eternal happiness the beach extra these are the end of the last days. But see where the mouse is dead be hidden This number is composed from and of which that number perfection, everything faith is complicated, here's the truth that is v
Sevenfold Spirit of San&i thank you 8e marks the charifmata through triad multiplied
We said au- theme fupra, remiflians, Indulgence 8c quatis The great jupiter, Sc Safebathi Sabbaths sacrament then to denote j, rest indeed the perfidious mfi in one mdi I live immutable, who is God Opt Mas. obunen no Of numbers
He will not be able to, nor did I feptem A group of funny gifts they can have power over us riff previous sacred of the mind
works Mercifully by Sacrofandae of the triad faith fighting Ecclefia will be formed
therefore, every operation in the militant Ecclefia in the faith of St. T ri- wearied of strength, tends to rest Camus we should be able to reach since it is true noftra rests then it is with ipfam of the Trinity clarity theme? in vnion we acknowledge the weakness of the divinity i through this which that is, they give j in duda. eledoruirL. mftiprema- we mean the smoke of those who have settled in the country which are fixed by pages in the Gospel, so that which they bring forth a text clearly expounded. It took a long time. What goodness and mercy is there between them? ptfcesn. u- that is to say, a mere swindler, a perishable beast of prey eternal life with mortality lucky to be counted the wall Aionas will go together with the Egyptians: Qhnnia to the greater Glory of God
The same seal. .Quidferpentine's feet ibid. jcutica ibid.
Egyptian names inter- payment feq. Agla is a cabalistic name. z li Alphmfus from Astronomy it's going to happen
The cost is the same in the back after the establishment of the name
What do you think?
I learned from nw.
The same not. c numerals
ndis proceeded. letters with numbers They are the order of the wombs of the Rumhebrals
ibid. Theirs fuperf itions by numbers
Astrology does all the magic he enters the accounts.
who I N D E X E RV M my numerical fiction Why should he mark ioo? , numijmatii incifafwiffe
In it there is no fan eB. 2$Q Cahalic Alphabet.
GabaliHarum in operation er- rores oHenduntur, They call everything back to ten
combinations [are they eat in a square find out I will count more. A Denanj note
How to count cenfaa there. ft) how nofaer inteUeBus
How human meml t as to have to be understood jj f
D of them D those rums 0mnuv names, [clearly they express the god at mythclogoj
is the first rese[fas S-Deo. , lie, iW wyHeria ib tcL How otherness in- d&au. INDEX Dyads Triads reasons ilid nneadum difpoftion
ilid What did they do? ilid Names that jjs fcribun Mr.
branch Ephesians letters the famine of Mileforum it is carried ilid exotic names that
Innue Eliua against them. I know who you are ft) such
fol. Superficies. Their stupidity
They gave everything by numbers fol.
Harpocrates trusting Lotus. What do you do for weeks?
What is Hexalpha?
Horologium cx Equifetus. How do you know? would be painted
What would he do?
Leo with the Moon Stars? fol.
The year in which he lived.
eOfaximum inmost RERVM they coincide with each other abf aue 'vlla contradititone
Micbael why cphionius.
fol. INDEX Eoriel what?
Barbarian names he- rumq- fignifcation. Sil I do not suffer with Satan they are valid at the outset. no photo number maker among the ancients
Note 5NW vari. t numbers thousand oSlonarij number
Number system explained.
Number of the audience in Cap tiuity of "Babylon. Numbers what
ibid. Numerical difficulties fol
are used from Tab. l{ol m Capitol fuperflite
Count God in all things niHrare, teach by example tur. ,
Everything must be trusted to rumours. my shoulder pads events
Origin known as L.
of the numbers.
Origin miUenarU nota.
ibid What is Entalpha?
Pythagoras the series rervm.
His multiple fetuses ibid. The same or He completes the pyramt dem trilateral, What a square cubic fol.
What is the Seal of the Sun? in number smile
What is the Seal of Mercnnj? by numbers
Eph INDEX EFT ibid. Quinarius Senaritti the country is always fiipfos refresh they are
Quinarij number prerogative. ibid Quinquagenarij note two oblique lines It is obtained twice
both dodtor perplexos. fol.
known as Scaleni.
ibid. He was in honor at
Meanings of Symbols fol.
The seal of Anael.
The seal from Arch. Leopard (finlielmo transfmijftim. fol INDEX magic
middle end Negative theology qut SStrices with a tqui-triangle The excellence of the triad
100-year-old man R E RV M. is declared
Unity quality, connection they have figs it really? so they have a sternum fol
in Arithmologies in I. Arithmolog
the truth nai nDD virtue VDI1 IS the same as the same as
which that XII. they want poiTim.
The greatest The greatest.
