Athanasius Kircher from Soc. Jesus TOWER OF BABEL S I V E ARCHONTOLOGY Q. U. A First Prifcorumpol flood people's life? manners and things the size of the geBars Sec un do The construction of the tower and the exjiruólio of the states, confusion of tongues, and hence the Gentiles tranfmigration s with the principal idioms of thence hiflory, muhiplic learning will be defined and explained. AuppiciisAuguftiffimi SapientiffimiCSARis LEOPOLD THE FIRST tJMecwnatis. AMSTEL0DAM1, Ex Officina JANSSONIO-WAESBERGI AN A. Anno cb bc With VriVilegiis. JOHN PAULUS OLIVA GENERAL PRESIDENT SO C IET AT IS JES U Vm work, which is inscribed on the Tower of Babel by P. Athanasius Sio Kircher nojlra Priest of the Society compote some of the same Society of Theologians recognized y into the light edì pojfeprobaverìnt, potejlatemfacimus, to be ordered to type y fiita to them, it will be seen Dated cRmde io February, JOHN PAULUS OLIVA
printed FR. HYACINTHUS, Libeil. Sacr. Palate Apoftol. MagifL most sacred Leopoldo To the emperor Augustus, Justus, Pius, Felici, Bohemia, Hungarian Rom. RULE THREE TIMES ATHANASIUS KIRCHERUS He prays for eternal happiness. Oft the luóhiofam of the universal flood, and Ark catatrophen poft tragic the extermination of the human race 5th world rare, and the results of all things the trickiest face: just a new desire rioris fasculiftatum, fceneque involentum Paraftafin is produced in the theater of the Tower of Babel: Tower, 'm- how
from the first tyrant of the world Chami Chufiqac to his son Jrnibrod in the field of Sennaar the entire human race while he was still living there, he was exhausted: The tower sails with this head of the perennial faeces, I cursed the famous one, lest the infamous cam because of the rashness of human impiety the fabric or to exalt the last borders of the heavens, he attempted to float the presupposition. I mean the device, which realcefe of divine majesty lest I be raised up with a thunderbolt of undue arrogance vindi6tg was disturbed and put off the faftus: &use the fupremum di- conquer the dominion of power, and to fear the truth where that of God clear fubverfion fu& document
with Dedication. she is satisfied; I was also the most serious I exemplify all the polemics of the human race #tatem has been educated, and it will fail to teach, effe confilmm On the other hand, Tominus: fed all the devices of the arrogant mind, fubftruótionef ambition however huge
yet dwarfs and infants perish, and perish by the same fate shave For he was capable of vanity and imbecility worldly more clearly butts, to suppress the attacks of the infamous tumor to ever- to show the foolish thoughts of men, as a god infuriated huge, so lightly touched by the finger of God, when the quantity was so large that it was quickly and easily destroyed In- happy that inauspicious arrogance I bring forth an example of this; and would that so that the universals should be able to make a tattoo before their eyes, so that they may see how the tragic femper closes the scene in this theater of ambition catastrophe and let them see it through, not another way impiety is the crown of the work which is wrought, as the summit and the mound y who is the leader of the church let him bury the excrement in the fall. That's what no one looked at I would have believed in the side of my mind, who if the child's mind is broken by the further movement by the advancement of the threshold of heaven, the tongues were defeated that is to say, by the wonderful confusion between the that y tranfmigrationis nations of the people dung makers and forks all over the world spread, as I say, these ffarfa everywhere the gates of unhappiness, to all human lust they deified what had been done. cnim of ambition struck in such a multitude of mortals, and to these
with a gloved body of formidable habit, with strength, then powerfully, the fux is grandiosely confident? re- gins rejected worship
from the father Josephus of the latter the first monarch of the world, who was founded by God, a tooth, degenerate refractory, while divining the apotheopheus the title of impious malice is attempted and trampled upon divine and human rights, the first world from this fcele- rum Dedicated not long ago the river was washed away by a flood threatened with tyranny, idolatry, and innumerable in- of the effluents to be detected life What a view of impiety, and not even in the innermost part of the heart He was overcome with pain, and the rest of the human race was 3oe y soon with a divine nod, he was brought forth by the impious Cham, and the sons of Shem himself he had broken the path he had corrupted, divine the spread of cults to redeem anyone who could push is not lacking. That we may be taught from thence, no impe- the blasts of rivers and kingdoms to be overthrown impiety the ram is slower; none to be compared and by supporting himself with piety, he gave himself more strongly to religion preferably a long time Accordingly, on both sides of the first image of this empire even, or a certain prototype of the rest, hife who and I have drawn up the outlines of the volume I wore a bandage as the kings of the earth, the rulers of the world, what is fitting of the purple and the purple, what is fitting what what is spread out what is fine? composed and con- in form, what is deformed, as it were, in a certain fpeculiar attention they are contemplated by the examination of the mind. Of course not al- terri to a better law, as for you Most Sacred Cjesar, who in the republic Christiana holds the stern and the nail, say then to the feet of the majesty of the smiths, with whom I was a fubmi I respectfully submit to the best wishes of the will. Fa- tieris, Most Augustus Emperor for your sake in all with piety and clemency, the little fruits of my labors, as if the lowest fervor you add to the fatels rest your feet the foot of whose vast Umbria tax rested Felicity university, in whose auguftifllmi fpecula of the head helplessly watch the matter of Consilium and Indujiria, who are two perfect minds your eyes really Aquilini never remifsà in the least contentionefleóhmtaciem à Solts eternal rays; fed at tending to every part of the faith for God and the people are busy In whose incomparable spirit the leaf of the paternal inheritance made a royal pledge to him part the greatest Tietas fujlitia: of which, lastly, that which is rare he said Dedicated Be silent. said such a mind? not capable of mass, fed major, to commit to the administration of the empire, as I love with ease and wisdom the throbbing of this Archetype firn conformed, with what great faith, 8c the readiness of the ship liane between so many rivers and tempeftatef he directed? knows or twice and is surprised. For whom even the sharpest of beasts la- by the foothills, or in the innermost parts of the unaccelerated mountains Now they push the broken side, either your virtue or other's evil rum confilias, and dangers no one ever heard of, who let your head be dyed and one in you of the whole Au- Who was the life of the house that was attempted by the evil fumes? a place so distant from the other side of the world and the sea He will be able to take it off, of which the report has not reached the name yours, the most pious aura ì Which corner of the world to God alien from all humanity, that nation until now uncultivated, which are not ex- awes those who are yours whose safety you are in danger of life and death? Oh, the infamy of the times and manners! O faeculi noftri co- tartar yeast! O filthy or- Twice ulcerated cancer, portents of the world pefts of the human race, infernal vipers, detectable I say, the government of Catiline; who flve cxcx ambition drunken philtre, maddened by the fury of the five foolish minds, so that the Tower was Habylomca, that is, of confusion, fumma mis, in to the air in vain; ? leaves Where did they end up? , ereota, in fact, to DEoproculcarent
I am not able to bring that faith to a better or worse, as I say They feared that the divine providence for you the fabric of a doomed empire but with majesty from the Atlanteans of Aujlriaci They would completely overthrow the cults of the machines, and all of them in the fall they would make a new one for me. They seemed new from in- the wild beast Caligius, who used to be the sole Roman people He wished for the neck, so as to be the most bloody abun- let me fill the head of the world with a single decuffumhu he would turn me away: fic ifti longe foulest iniquity fury smile Dedicated the gigantic gigantomachy bears on your fair head, the head of the world of Chriftian with murderous perfidy and bruises It is imbued with all the poisons of all evils, and with rage The vefanias vibrated on the cusp, as if it were a divine gift the men of the house gathered together the most abominable thread they would break off the auf, your gam would root out murder. But in vain, that is certain prftolavantur, eventu, folio iftud fupra bafin eucharifti- The idea of an incomparable Prince was so fo- founded by the leader, and continued by so many great grandchildren of piety, and the worship of all the virtues, which ad They are believed to be the end of the world of the fenenet divinities oracles deftinafle, hi Baby Ionic impiety They tried to escape. For how much do you mourn for your destruction? the hatreds of their enemies conspired just for your sake of all those who live in thee, they were watching, pious The vows were burning, the infidelities were boiling hot. As much as these portentof fcelerum architeóti public refuge in your in- to grind pefTundare; so much iftor, even the highest heaven take care of yourself, or rather, the one leaning on you they labored to strengthen the column with all the snow. Until then, in vain All things are against the power of thee, and also childish with the presumption of a swollen and furious mind, nis treacherous tunnels intruded machines. I mean This is not for the oblivion of your ears, (for I hate you (this kind of allurement) fed, how much earlier with horror to so many The rapid spectacles oppressed the minds of all; so now sweet and pious be mindful of these rum of others to the auspices of the ferenic seasons; to A more abundant public garden, in which he raises us so many a pleasant memory of the benefits of the coelefts, none ever to be obliterated by the oblivion of the ashes. From then on, you can try as many things as you want. pubic The mists of Chriftian, perhaps extinguished by the execrable furies you will make more happy omens, and not even that in vain auspiciousness, we take it for granted. For as much as the world Of course, the good of Chriftian has been brought to you by divine providence It is not in vain that I hinted at the world on your birthday indeed it was seen that there were not a few who were quite unemployed. auppicesquidecelocaperentomen not obfcurum feli-
cited Dedicated cited and on that day, apparently v. iduswj. nonfruftra mun- therefore given that they were anointed, by which SS. Aprimi Feliciani auppicatif memory was used. I say he was published around the world congratulating tur, who has been happy for a long time now tem refititueretjSc rurfum Primi, which has not been heard for a long time it had been, however, the argument of a huge fpei, in Cacfa He would bring a list of the names of the accused. What a great father you are auguftiffimi profcenia, you will not differ in the end with luck the results proved, when he was branded with the name of Leopold I and he inaugurated the Emperor, and he is not lacking in myftery
mnium (we firmly believe that Caepha and the Kings are five, fub the letter L of the initial of your name was decorated by the faftos of Auguftorum, as a mere epilogue to the deeds of the Emperors If you would not have completed it, I would have fed you with another major happiness you will be born How in faith they had erected a long time ago bem Chriftians au-uftiffimae dotes you lisfummalaacrity; you have the most active character; crazy dad
you are capable of efflorescence in the face of great thoughts dictionary prudence venerable in the prime of age; in Prince Ju- come on; indulgence in true and life-giving fortune za, the rules of behavior for all modesty of the caftigatiffim decency; and all the virtues of fathers growing up maturity: let not the catalog of your praises fall upon the ear the fattest fatties rather than delights here con- I will briefly summarize; fumma dignity fumma beautiful and so lowly in command of your lowly mind the size of the Atlantemdeftinaffe, the empire to you, fed, you seemed to confer a crown on the government. And so these and I would lead them to the prefaith of the virtues, which were like the most brilliant He will also trust you to the high throne of the imperial leaf they seemed to shine, to such a republic rudder moved above all thy father's wisdom, most wise CLesar, I have left to you the documents of the Political Chriftianc in the innermost heart I ended up impressing, and never before the eyes of the mind I began to cultivate the fantia, exaótè circumfpiciendo not impious those deceitful political dogmas, with which kingdoms are flourished like firmaments, and the leadership of the world: with whom, as if by mustaches, he protected me so many diadems, and royal leaves; the prosperity of republics, the prosperity of empires, etc fub Dedicated they are surrounded by fubditus. These foundations indeed to use that divine Tjthagorce Tetraótyn, that cdTietatemfu- Jlitiam, Fortitude Wisdom, with the annex of the virtues more, world director of the Neceflaria, company, pro- they look back at each other; so also only to support you you cast the safety of your gnomes as an example preferring, to be heated and to be cenfuifti. For what yours is in the abundance of virtues, fortunately attached to the worship of Piety two indefefla fint ftudia
wild? they will commend themselves to poverty insignia, so that the works of these do not blow up anywhere and through all Hwigarite, líobemice, Aulirla, hasreditaria- and the corners of the provinces with great merits you you brought to all the memory of the past an indelible charaóte drawn up But these things are so difficult to piety, which by no means am I circumscribed by the bounds of faith, or to He extended the limits of the territory of the Roman Empire; where the ancestor of piety infìgnemonumentumj of the old age pfum, ecclefia and mountain Deiparas and the god Eujlacbio fa- leg, of majesty your jealousy at your own expense tum ubfidiifqueubermis intruótum, perpetual nations He renewed their devotion. They will talk about ifta
let men be silent, restored to the beauty of the church the keys of the altar
air the lamps of eternal Auftriace; the fire of piety sedulously, they will weave their fervour, Caesar the Most Pious, anathematized, pitiful, and various ornaments fplendor
in short, the bundles of virtues the interpreters and heralds of the dumb are greater than all the tefte. What more shall I say of the incredible art of and tiaras both divine and human lest those who, in order to reach the crowns, would break the way for you to live: for you do not know what I have done so well, Who in a great imperifiant function to make the least, nififa- I love everyone; as a consequence, as many words as the foundation of so many laws you seem to store, no less unrefracted by Themis able, as unshackled by work and example to verify They had been cheering for you for a long time the foundations of learning and skill
when your childhood crowded legion of hiftors, and the futuidofa of the investigation of the things that have been done by no other
withered EDUCATIONAL I wanted to be educated at the end of the day the archives of the penetrative and secret kingdoms, im- I will control the reins of the dead, what to imitate, what fu- to go, by the example and memory of these you may see
at- which he went to the various cafes and cafes of the strong men both smiling, as well as cheering, carefully weighing the fortunes escaping more cautiously and more ruthlessly, from excellent and useful
of the old geftis quafacris, quaprofans, adperfimilium practice of deeds you would take the documents. When I have much to say here about the wonders of the mind endowment and unfaithfulness, whose support to the world to strengthen the mass by the end of exhaustion I will say the most useful, however, more with your venerable admiration that love; how can I be free from the light of the virtues its extent fasting prayer I trust you to tear me down. I will be silent here Mercurius will give you a eloquent abundance theme; I will conceive from dpolline Mathematics universe, at- that Harmonicx abvolutiffimam, with the morals of Ethics 3facultate of moderators diciplinaconjunota; every- that of the whole maker's apparatus, with which your petition, Magne Caesar à ipfa fufficienter obarmauum orbis uni- he is admired and revered However, we should not be silent This seems to me to be an incredible patronage of letters and love we have blessed, with which all the muses are complex I added this also not so long ago to the fearful victuals in thy praises magnified, as in the sum of the public good light, the function of pretending; that, who did nothing to Caefareus mu- Neri necefarium effe, as the ftu of foreign tongues You know a long time and experience by which thou wast wondrously intrutted, so that you will transfer the immense wealth of your soul to others
in Viennenjt thy metropolis of the eastern idioms naeum by a rare example without a doubt of God's infinitohi you have founded as or Cic the eastern empire of the west, reciprocal lin- of course, the trade of guar is great. Christian with benefit, when the glory of your most exalted name im mortal, you would confederate with him. But I don't want to be reckless insulting the greatness of the helpless, me I gave it up. It exceeds the scope of the mnemonic to extend beyond; where it is safer and more convenient for those who are in need rather care for the splendor of merits with winking eyes universally admired ripe for glory: especially when neither your majesty let him do this, in the dignified and enormous size of his soul demiffifime, and TerMaximum in such a demiflion of mind Cjesak: ftendamtetalemtumque Caefarem, one of this help- ris guardian; to whom this, and all other devotional The pledge of my fervency is not due to one of the heads there: with you we are the equal arbiter of things, who this new birth, the flood of things from the primeval times To the kings of Egypt, the variety, rarity, and abundance of gifts admirable abilities to judge in balance, and claim against them the taunts of the oppressors, male power by conferring a safe authorship on that newness of faith. Perhaps no one will be interested that you care for Caephare I intend to interrupt the more serious world not afraid of firn Of course we will raise the same snow and the most humane of my eloquent majesty's leaves humility, to be questioned, kindly invite so much animàfles? cunótantemfollicitàffes Hincfadlum it is, that this work Sac. In the eyes of majesty it is unworthy from faith narrowness, however, even with this title
di- and the tree becomes alive, because Auguftus gives it, bountiful who was often promoted to the public light caved Wherefore most munificent Caesar, all I will place five praises in the glory of my service I give, what I gave myself, I give back to you, this work is not so much mine, than yours
because all of me is yours I acknowledge how much smoke: that is mine indeed, that distrust I made it mine with the most munificent of yours. Goodbye world Chriftianifulcimentum, the idea of the Caspians, human ge- your pet Hsecdabamw Anno day fu- I, Trimo Feliciano M. M. do, who use Your Majesty3 esticit genethliacus
so too he becomes a prodigal is made of happiness yours, and the entire republic Chriftiane Fau- a fortuitous and fortunate raid.
IN- TABLE OF CONTENTS Transfer to LeBore. Fol. I B E R
De Rebus poli: Deluvium a hundred and thirty years fpatio geflis.
III. CHAPTER From the departure of Noah and his sons from the ar- about ibid. In all matters Noah and his sons wives in the mountains They were afraid. ibid. Noah died with his family mere in Monteperatla the plain of the mountainous region. Noemi Japheth yjam trusted princes the foot of the people, an exhortation. ibid. IV. from the multiplication of the human from the Deluge to every place fication
the first transmigration of children Noah from Mount Ararat in the plain nioresfiubmontanoe region cam pos. I B E PREFACE zyl section DefabricaTWtf.
CHAPTER I. DeprimdeVorum bominupojl in- grafted into the land of Sennaar with lustful lust. ibid. Whether the building of Noah's tower he was presiding; together with I will advance to Nembrod Cbameam, to begin with I got a lot of work.
Demonstration From the Tower to the Moon Heaven tajuu cLuuuctfJiUfite impof- btlitate
CONSEQUENCES IV. 2)e Tower of Nembrod firm t? arcbitetlura
III. mediately pofl flood uteban there ibid. i. On the life of the first mortals in fiubmontana of Mount Ararat gione many years peratla V I
at the time transmigration in the east the land of Sennaar He was overcome by the flood whether, who is the origin of Phaleg.
We are the epilogue From what generations of children I was able to collect Noah. ibid. VII. Registration of the land of Sennaar qiiam ex In the East, the newcomers found the deli- ciis affiuente
Cheap At that time Nembrod Tower arcbiteSlus born Jìt how many for years Vtxerit
X De myflicofenfu, quifub Mofiaica It contains a two-story tower. II. SECTION II. Of wonder and wonder (It is both a city and tower one of the miracles of the gardens, à Nino à Cbufi to the children Se- miramide pofl: the death of ISLem-
CHAPTER I Of Nino and his rebmgefiis. ib. Of the annexation of Nineveh great and great Vaslita.
III. On the tower in the Babylonian city Nino sr Semiramidetfum for almost a year ris Nembrodxx extrucìa.
the magnificence of the city is almost in- more credible than in BabyIon Se- wonders built
On the bridge two royal palace buses in the streets of the city places à Se- wonder extrutlis
V I Of bortvs pensilibus, from Semira- fear in the Babylonian camp trutlis, who jr among miracles the number of the world
expose TABLE OF CONTENTS Expropriation of the fmgular parts. VII. Of the ftupcndis of the fabrtcarum miracles brothers Nembrod and Miiraim and each of them, from the same family, Cbus in yad'Babylonio- the imitation of rum and Aphyria and they drank away their rivalry. SECTION III. De prodigious manufacturers y&gypti, all the descendants of Chufia imitation relatives Nembrod, Nini Semiramide in the kingdom of Babylonia, JffyrU they raised up the world in wonder.
PREFACE CHAPTER I. Vyramides O" Obelifci in ALgy- pto ereti ibid. Enjoy a single stone what
III. Labyrinthbi in jfcypto prodigioja device ibid. V Register Exatla, JiVe Ichnogra- phia Labyrinth jfcgyptiaapò- a human tent of the latter, whom the kings of Egypt they built
Synopjls of things in the Labyrinthbo con- tried ibid. About the time when so much work was done they were
Of the artifices of the macbins in the Labyrinth those who were unharmed to be shaken with dew.
VII. Of Labyrinthbo in Crete, Lemnos, aifimditu in other places of Greece the Egyptian confidant
Of the Greek fuperbisfabricis mo- and he pointed out what for imitation Sfcgypttorum at no time I once prayed in Gracia.
Temple of Dianse Ephefiae. ibid. Artemis Caria? {Egina Mau- leaf ibid. Colophus Rhodius. ibid. Whether in the bum or the day of Nem- embroidery To the tower The rapidity be found
From the cities and from Nembrod, they thunder from Nino r Semiramide to lit- tora Tigris O" Euphrates ex- trutlis, and their also whether fuperflitibm
XII. Genealogy of Noéjapheth, Cham,
He and his son. De Ortu Pha- ìeg god of languages nations
able work at Lake Mceridis XIII When Nembrod began to reign! T diVtfiogeìitium.
Really imbued with black color.
XV- On the kingdom of Nembrod, and impiety Why did Belus call him? Of the colonies of the sons of Shem, Elam I will love ip Whether and how to take even the Hebrew language of languages in the house of Heberperman. I B E R III. Whether Prodrome into Atlas cPolygloffum Which Through the predufiones some of the varieties of languages and idioms diparatiflima what kind? together with the early introduction of idolatry into the world They did not report the confusion, the best thing is done.
PRELIMINARY SECTION I. Of inclination, corruption nor, meanwhile, of tongues.
CHAPTER I. On the occasions of multiple water farumferie in which language of the Variorum
kingdoms flourishing, finally omni- fashion corruption forgetful shoot damage ibid. I L On the origin and introduction of idolatry into the world reason diVerfìtath INDEX languages and manners who at and different nations Vi nations they were wearing
III. Of the variety and number of who from the confujtone of languages and they are born of the divifwnegtnium ANALOGY first things first di patriarchìi geftarum, gefìii Ofì- parallel to Ridis, Iphidis, and Horus.
IV. On the first imposition of names. Who of which the first many languages
COMBINATION BOARD, in which of the most approved authors The shape of the serpents, and their those who derived their origin from it, fuc- ceffiVa propagatone exbiben- tur-, from which everything is clearly deduced some alphabets of languages in February to hold the Vejigia of the letters.
Exposition of the preceding table.
Of the leaves of the Hebnei Samaritans ebaraftereinfigniw ibid. VII. On the origin of literary writing
VIII. On the Hebrew language, the wonderful Vi in rum fignificationibws elucefente, what a wretch Adam drank. Combinations of fenfu, under the name hide the animals
X. Of the letters of the Coptites myflidiyquo rum language efl one of the first linguk migenia
Borrowed from the Hebrews.
Ancient Egyptian literature brica, and the infusion of the fafta Tauto fiVe Mercury Trifmegifto
the tablet in which the Samaritans ours, with the Ionic tsr Copticisy? e It is compared to the Egyptians.
I T U M An example of the inscription of the Ionians li- terrarum à prijcii Grxcis lapidi in- cifa
SECT II. Of the original languages, which they call mothers, with whom I can confufio even Babylonia they are running in every direction.
PREEF ATION CHAPTER I. Of the Hebrew language of languages the first of all ibid. II. Of the Chaldean language, one expri- mature language
III. Of the Samaritan language feu Phce- nicia
V On the Syriac language.
On the Arabic language.
Of the Ethiopic language.
VII. Of the Per(ìcà, yé# yElamiticà language.
Cheap Of the Egyptian language and Coptic, how jr Old Pharaoh called cam
On the Armenian language.
SECT. III. Of the languages of early Europe geniuses, and their properties. 2oó CHAPTER I. On the origin of the Greek language ibid. De lingue larynge origine, ancient tate, corruption restoration.
III. On Various Quality, Vicifitude jr augmento lingue Latina: .
Table roflrate registration prifea lin- gua Latini peratla ibid. Column infcription.
I De lingue Germanica origine, payment jr corruption.
Imperial German language, ibid. Of the inmost parts of the North of the language
V I. On the language of Illyricum, Dalmatian, and Slavic Vonika and his daughters.
A chronological table of our poet's flood, that of tongues rise growth is explained.
VII. Whether the roots of languages to be found to uniVerfalem language a kind of confection
ATHA- Athanasius Kircher èSoc. Jesus TOWER OF BABEL Tomu. s Digested in three books; Whose First Resgejìtepofl the flood to TuxYÌs and tfdification; SECOND
The city of Turrifyue ereòlio; Thirdly Division of languages B Transmigration of Gentiles Hiftoria is contained.
Leaves Athanasius Kircher è Societ. Jesus TOWER OF BABEL THE BOOK OF THREE Containing The thing was carried away by the flood to the Tower and every building. P R A F A T WELCOME TO THE READER. Ojl Aycx Noèmicae y luBuofam atacly hifioria just order Mofes D E servant first narrates IMoytalus through the three sons of Noah, Shem, Cham, Ci Japhet. , a hundred years [pa- tio peratlam multiplication welcomes this Citizen tate Turrite to all the memorable fa- brica y quamfequitur v'indicantefé DEO OPT Max. of untamed the foolishness and insolence of the children of men, and the confusion of tongues, gentiumtransmigrationisordium: which wedge Mofes Genefcos chap. xi. etji quam brevifimè, quam yet y ex- other things y which? in this arduous business times fucceffu happened, a narrative composed of five beautiful fané expo was the first of which was whom I saw first ifli zSMorta- they have been who then they lived in the world
what did you do?
and what moved them to order the transmigration ì Secun- give y is the end in their transference to the infant mass of the Tower the third should be erected to which the of fpatium ex should they extend the Tower? The fourth quemfinemfco- since they had adifidofbiprafixed in so great a quantity ì Fifth de- fine y how from work with a reckless venture y from Divini5VV menis difp licenti'a y and by further throwing him out of the confufon lin- the guarantor is delayed how indeed the confusion of tongues perpiexiy tan- that transference all the world regions they have been ordered ì All these things that are most important in the context of this work there Divine goodness the aufibs nofiris y so afumptum tbema auni- We will go forward with happiness in honor of his glory. book Athanasius Kircher book FIRST. Of things like a flood, one hundred and thirty years fpatio geftis CHAPTER Thus the exit of Noah jiliorum ex box Cip. I. equal to the balance of the mind Exiftebant, of course, from the material of Limofx jmorum poft flood ho- j flowing down, now the stream of springs: adnecel- a little weight actions i of the lighthouse of water, which in the lowest pla- mouse, red lane system diet It was not done, quickly and temporarily It seems that Noah's sons were a great deal of trouble would be opened, and the plains out of the box, and made a report to God of the receipts suitable for agriculture benefits, creation, and upon receipt of rent, surely Noah better, com- by the multiplication of the Imman race, through and more beautiful, because of the smoke around it ix box words (Crefcite ur multiplied isr re- knowledge of natural things ftatim 7"plcte terram) precept benediction- aunt, do not opt for the ftation he could; (cmdenmt ne imPart so not ftatim to infe-! but although the text of this pimì ho- riore the bottoms of the mountains defcendifTefèd hil says, but the reason seems to be far off, in the plains of the mountains to several as I said, it is done in this field He has not really washed away the years. No- buffet you For Noah knows by the divine light fighting of the reborn world smelled He knows very well how vast the world is for it is also from Geography, in ple- and in the more edifying mountains to perish the plains long and wide as from the Alps, apparently the earth can be metamorphosed by a deluge Nini, and the rest of the mountain chains, end He does not know how long, how many living Europe, experiencing that years
dwell in the mountains extract she teaches us, cattle, cattle, while it would be, until the inframontana pla- more suitable places for the habitation of men they would be And this pado is boring, as it is in the mountains, as a protection ri, the beginning of the propagation of the human race would lead, until in the irmeniìim exur- azm not soon after livestock, with abundant food find suitable and convenient fields plant
defcendiflc t n. therefore the border of the plains, Noah cum us &is conveifatumfuine, ar- ffle- we are bitter
For in this edition on the plains, which surround the mountains by the multitude of children to the bottom he would be compelled to bring the matter to the plain CHAPTER In these circumstances Noah and his sons with their wives were in the mountains they took over Chapter ILC It's gone, Noah by no means re- I smelled rum, otiofum fuiffe, fèd continued
everything I am of such a necelian race, You were constantly practicing the skill; kill and indeed first, as GOD ipfiK"" praxeperat by words {Crefcite mtdti-&cr plicamini) children were born for propagation arouse to be done; and since many type Tower of Babel
Oh II. There is nothing more con- the way of the prefect's occafionc He came to nourish the abundance of the people. to live in the fields in such a way as to be fertile to the end of which they could not endure life neccilìtatc compuliùs, above all Q children
by God burn in the air We taught Noah y, taught skill, just before the flood ufù for life certainties, provided the eighth rat, so also the flood, in ex- worshiping the poets, and around the riias things infúm infúm, none he spared the trouble, as he who univer- he loves: for how
be in the secret with him his daughter will not tranftulify Dentiunius the treasurer, soon he will be able to have it ready, when he the land of Iqualorc, and slime ornaments so quoted we have nothing to do with some comparing in the ark: and the animals He will be able to bring us forward, which is the same thing fruit trees and vineyards I would like to understand planting. How- for at the end of one year these, fine bread, fine meat, eggs, and the rest of human life they could live in skepticism, no one Ian Orbis's face was blackened j will be able to conceive a fate. He had foreseen the they were to be filled, thus through the ar-! noe noè cuncì: a ha: c poft deluvium ne- his tradition flowing from Noah, method reason as rich I have accomplished so much in my desire spread the dew Ferraris I went on to practice agriculture whose ceiidain
by other arts to the ground qm nccef- p-cndam they needed, that of course first in Ferrara's art, than even divinely or as before the flood at Tubal cain smith in all kinds of iron and brass ceffaria; He did not know about the trifle and mourning face of the earth, list everything thirty ra; whence even if God is distant, for the rest of the renewed world is necessary the woman of all things, intru- agricultural mints and fruits the sprouts of trees, and the clusters of vines faeces within the arcane tranftulilTe, as to them at the end by further extension in any He would use men and animals. use Cap. IV. He was considered to be a genius, he had learned And these indeed I have given to my children he exercised his children; no damage Noah ate, but his wives are concerned about things! ' indeed from the natives of the mining mountain, where: at that time the need to cultivate rant} lèd from ironwork, qua: lècum had brought him to this end within the mysteries He made it, whatever they could scythes, scythes, irons: cares, knives, daughters; a vase what art, what art gilla urcei, pot: , concha: , etc domefticum where they were made The factories didilfe arbitratimi' To protect the art not
that lie against the tempests, other that the air injures, calàrum, shed rum and house, as before dawn he had seen the way, and made it, to be built He wrote down the rules of agriculture. In addition, all kinds of vegetables wheat and put the manure into agriculture enter mysterious intuliife
as much as possible a woman's girdle of her own set up it is lawful to ctare, reli&a; for hypheus to weave the thread, soaking in water di, then the rules of spinning and weaving he preferred
also the art of spinning He was giving documents. In addition, chicken rum, and the education of chickens, to
our comparison, every de- nor do the worship of domestic lewdness de- he was dying I regret this, ha: prima: mor- such poft flood colony: impi- grè lane, qua: they had learned from Noah, in they carried out the execution; And these indeed please com false ways of living in other places they taught, as in the fecund demons we will break
ca- hair Athanasius Kircher CHAPTER III. Noah died with his family on Mount Pera
in the submontane of the plains. Defcen- Noah from tnonti no faith mine in imitation At last the time came when Noah already children in copioiam pro- rising genius, lower bm in the re- 1CS of the mountains farms
vaftafque re- from everything mountain, bodie Per- lqualorc, humidity luperrlua ìm- he knew the duties; whence tta, when the plains are already in the rivers mina deferred, lemons in the foreground ties already luxuriant grass, pa- You will not be wild with every creativity so much so, that you are clothed with light and beauty, the diftriótus of the yylvar, as well as the trees brothers and sisters, then to the prisoners in the material of xdifications ptam, lylvas also of various animals his progeny in abundance, many domesticated animals he will find them packed, title; who; as is common to interpreters slowness
it was huge he waved the regions of the diftrióhis, who ftve Verfia fîve Armenia was a diet, here the incredible number of people multiplying avóta
do not trust the multitude The confufus order was born, Noah parenting of all, and the King, in three parts, jux- these three sons, Shem, Cbam Se Japhet, as if he were divided into certain tribes, as each one? three fibi when he presides with the fullness of his power difficulties, diflìdiilque exortis, ad Noah
as to the nature of the whole the heir of the world, and the decision to return rent Not really in such multitudes to neglect the care of men and souls there, Noah, it was like the light of the sky fratrus, so also before all that he led the most neceffary, to pre- He would prefer to take the vines and the diciplines he would teach the worship of religion, behavior norm, and trust in God: Three of children Sem, Cham Jaffer I fell asleep dijlribtttio, he would enter into an attachment to him
next to pre- you were taken by God, and you were given to the times it would be perfect, for I am the end of the Divine Nu- the threat of threats in such a variety of people tate nothing reètée poffe properly he is crazy Whence you are gathered together in one place the manners of the tribes, such as no we can imagine twice
exhortation we believe in piety. Tlayuvtmg Noemi to three sons, Shem, Ham, Japbet, already the leaders of the people I confessed this to the gathering of the congregation, wire in the name of God fanEli Z? gloriofi, Bodie I am addressing you. So stay do not listen, perceive with your ears the Word of my mouth, Verha VerbaVita, Verba futus, which become fierVaVeritis, DEXJMfiemperpropi- You will be thirsty for generations to come. the end, the judge of God's judgment above you, Vefirafique generations complete to go, not doubts the unhappy world before di- Luvium caught, Vidifis together with me giant then the wildness before the flood, tnexpli- the cabin of men in all fceles, flags and to breed through Verity, born ra exceeding the limits at length to that impiety from Fiacrilego Setbiana and Camitica Marriage came about, as God did ipfius whose nature is good, odmundumperden while, to be exterminated by flood and uniVerfial compel Remembering, nifiallor, just how much you want me the son's light, from all the flesh of Veluti, the only one those who have painted the paths of the Lord will remember them with fear and trembling, from all the participation of he chose not to be a that I con- to execute the wicked, the ark that TOWER Cap. lll. que ipfo dictante de Numine, pro fua infinite clemency decreed the confidant, with which Vosfilios mc- the mouth and the wives of Veftras
mani maffa fälltos, from ruma world folos to confirm He wanted Nofiis with what faith religion in a hundred-year-old factory I will give, how many accomplishments I will be fooled by the giants until I tan- so many people of the neighboring world excision, ravings, hard bundles perfiften tes, to one all unexpected cataclysm they perished. ccordammi filli? nei, quan- so to the kindest GOD so before so enter arcane together with omniviVentls nature fub- ftantia ingrejfum, included, recent benefits we perish; as a fatherly university overflowing
Verit brought us folios, and fua unspeakable Providence, 6r difpofttione no- bls will be affected: how me, what in dtfficul- to be acted upon by the divine Voice oracle built: how at last I have extinguished it the human race, we eight cattle to the world orientate women and the world the lady has died. Surely such things are, tta from the origin of the world are neither Vifa nor BABEL the little ones For truth is truth, with jamge my three sons, Sem, Cham, Japheth If only the world's ba- reeds, not even a uniVerfe land, nations queprincipesperatta propagalo in adeò nu- he raised up a merofa fobolus, as one of them we cannot stay here. You should not be in tan- the children and grandchildren of Veftro gatone, he would flee for refuge; You, I say, As if I hope to share something with the tribe I was And Shem, the first-born, who was one hundred before the flood the years of God's creation I took, fua jlirpis, of children, and his grandson be patient Japheth, the equal prince of Csr He becomes the master of the progeny. Cham In truth in the generation of fua, let him gain dominion. By making this unique from you, do not fpu- abusing mixed marriages, fedu- no one was the offspring of Jlirp, paternal not a tyrannical administration; from the origin of the dijiidejitium lawsuits with jurisdiction let him drink Cam The true end of the Divine God by the way nor the kingdom
nor rulers long fubfifter pojitnt, before all things re- I will prefer to hold a league for you, as of God alone. True, living, creator of the world feculls will be seen, so that Seth, the ruler of all things, Adae received ineffable benefits from God goodness and mercy merited in the heart bu$ noftrls long and night impreffa continuous meditation we must swim. I will now go to the benefits, with which I can eat greifum from the ark GOD OPT MAX. contributed to us
you his wife Veflras, no man Vi- You're going crazy uniVerfam tellurvs face re- would perish; think spend, how I will be the only master of the world and bare filled all the world my health has changed, for everything sons and fathers among us from the beginning of the world, tra- Ditone continued in each line from Adam taught the tenth conferVets, banc inti- the most hearty tables of the Vefters infcribatisy let him never forget in your memory there; for the last time in Ve- of others
Jr. I passed my life well and happily I would like to depend on a bunch of peasants. since all over the world, for the fua with his infinite goodness and mercy he loves us fuperftites He willed it, therefore it was done in the end of the faithful, so as to adhere to the same standard of religion which I wrote to you, not only you with great fervour, fed r inden- with your care, you will pass it on to your children and grandchildren the kingdoms of the reborn world, and spread their people and the drink of the Veftrians. Jgitedumfk- He condescended to guide them to the end; ! Go to my beloved, the worship of the Divine God what about the cause of such immense benefits with no one ever at intervals, ora- trust me tions& fiacrifida, which our GOD has nothing ruminations to be returned, folennefacrificium more willingly accepted to him who loved us so much, by which he could force me out of the ark
What do you think? harmony between you, if true The only crown of happiness is in you celebrate, worship, love: what have you done, be- God is the greatest of all operations Vefiras, Life, blessed length lest he should be fertile, to the fertility of the fields it will rain in the times you were, borreaVe- they will be filled with corn and grain pious, O Vintane's abundance they will be abundant and with all things honors of the beabtmin: be true, that which is done, you will not obey the commandments of the way, Klrcheri with the speed of his mind and his enormity you shall worship God, he of you I will deal with a thousand types of calamity of the mind, and a profligate license to sin To be sure of the sureties, which for the very divine nature of goodness and mercy does not drink so neither and his juftity; bac day spent bac of the high oiler, fi sometimes if they happen to you, they will betray me to you xijfe you remember Live happily, Word- you remember my rums; that it may be well say to God, let Juper vos defcend, and what I thought it would be possible to do it through you, let it be done. CHAPTER IV. Te humanigeneris from the flood of the Tower tfdipcation their children, Sem, Cbam Japbetb, the human race propagated fuiffe fupra the earth The text is thrown
Noah was born as a child, and was twice married I will destroy every kind of cattle the earth: chapter X he funtfamilias of Noah near the peoples, nations fuas, from twice diVifie fuggentes in terrapofi flood In this chapter Mofes intends to demonstrate that the figs in the first the world was born, from one Adam, the whole human race the road, a thousand and five hundred at the time of a hundred years, propa- it was open, so that the flood could come new the rufus of the world at the beginning of three Noah ended all the earth, inhabited tories cultoribulque fuiffe comple- as well. However, the number of that progeny, and multiple po- the fertility of the three sons of Noah
first and its origin diversity gen of regions and kingdoms he was slowly writing; no one knows at, the greater hifce did not progress nothing, as the laceration of the tissue was creating; when Mofes in this place, not snow heads, du- ces, and the princes of the peoples to the rest given the works of the relative, lest in the Rattan is not useful at all. to- you can ad infinitum of this kind by extending the time would lose The truth with all this when I entered into the ark of Noah When we were gone, we sent Leotor back to him. Hiftorici do not wonder at reason- Smm
fined there, how so soon, or within people years of fpatia and to the Tower Ba- mtra bel, the flood of many people cation
Rhodotus, Diodorus, and others things are handed down by three men, fi- Noah was able to touch the rivers. It's amazing ri defines, where he excavates human ge- the hiftories of the narrative. Who does not kill, either Nembrod's foal The tower manufactured except for women and children, and so on I took my offspring into the field about armed men; to use 'Belo', that is Nimbrod, Diodorus tells Who does not obftupelcat, Ninum Nembrod's son, as Euflachius relates Tbejfaloniccnfis in Commentary on Dio- I will save the life of Nineven, one hundred what Tower of Babel LlB.
IV r. used forty thousand works These, however, by mutual marriages, both ad if, and this among the two hundred ninety- years they could spread faith, according to and the years after the flood, j the rules of combinatorial art
for we will take into will come. your marriage to the ninety a year easy continuous propagation they could reach the number which is clear from
And here: proceed nies from that, by a new marriage combinations they could reach, twenty-three thousands of millions, three hundred and twenty you have millions; where? the matter is hardly in the mind
can be conceived things? art He would clearly be breaking the rules. But these things in the subject abacus please In the first year the flood nature, had only three children in the conduct of wars, as well as in building it could be propagated in the cities as much as possible three hundred and four hundred years? already the universe is almost inhabited you For if we suppose, with three It is easy for generations to be renewed in these years eight hundred thousand souls grind But as a reader this close per- let it be
Arithmetic calculus we married monftranda Let us suppose, therefore, that the three sons of Noah At the beginning of the year there was a flood, three fi- lios, and beget as many daughters, fin- But in the years that have passed, all I will kill them, and until they are thirty years old all sons and daughters? taking care of children how apt they were, you will find the rum of souls already reaches Le geni- you will come In the first years of his life, Caicuius gave birth to three children genoaffc
rice makers road, will be produced cam. jjs multiplied for years, from the flood, will be given
descendants of children. spread of people. And these multiplied for years; from here to producing propagation of people We will not proceed further here, since the matter will proceed almost to infinity. So that no one should be surprised, credulous, still in Nimbrod's time, when human? made of ambition, of Monarchy and the fummo of things was successful in obtaining the army, a&os fuifTe For Zoroastrians, whom we Cbam, grandfather Kembrod fuifTe, in Obelisk We are afraid of vampires, with through Nin's son "Kembrod's army where? there are two hundred thousand Diodorus Siculus, duxiuep of men he delivers. We have either from ipfisfà- another copy of the letter while or The interpreters of Fanelli were not surprised how come from Israelites, who into Egypt Juffu Joseph transfmigrà run, maybe years, a huge pro- they have exercised genius, so that lias of warriors before the little ones, women liers fenes, with Mofe Duce rum, they have been buried in Egypt. ca- Gap. V. Athanasius Kircher CHAPTER The first transmigration of Noah's sons from Mount Ararat into the flat plains of the submontane region.
On the language, in the first place, which immediately they used the flood. I have noticed next time let's move forward safely first the words make a text here We have decided to bring it, so as to be near the same to the infliction of knowledge we are ordered to weave. so and thus Mofes differed: Hebrsa dritt nriN pKH Sa leSlio. 'yw? ynxa irjpdi oip oywa ni: dp That is: advice of the same; no matter how successful they were They came into the field from the East earth Sennaar, and they will live there. Grxca le-
j@t} h 7rclT(i yh 7ti$iov ty kcCIco- Ideft: And the whole earth was one lip, and one voice for all; It is a slum when they are moved from the office libusplagiò, inVen'ere field in the land of Sen- Naar, and they will be eaten there Chaldaic he has a reading fic
chaMaì-nini in SVddi in Ncna--w nini ca. .jon mn Saan tsmaa That's it: And all the earth was of one language, er speech is one; it is erfatl, when pro- in the beginning, and in Veniffent cam- pum the land of Babel
That's it: But it was the whole world is an idiom one thing, the speech is the same, and you are quiet effet in the East they came to the field in the third ra Bagaded, ideft, in BabyIon, they run there Hilce weaves together Sy- stream It was therefore a land of one lip, eorun- and that of words, or as the Greeks have bet, the earth was of one lips, and the voice of all the bus is the same; or as Chaldaica, all the earth one language, and the same speech; or finally use Arabic
it was the whole world's idiom one thing, and one speech. But what about the la- Let us explain the two things to be understood. With lip-shaped words The lips
What does he know? mitment he went, but the voice was on the line He did not wish to utter any words; when no one does
He wished to speak with his lips open and moving; re- ótè fané lacer text pro language la- bium, I will drink for the sake of it. In uniVerfa therefore the land, or as the Arabic has it, m I command the whole (where throughout the world, the entire Im hands name the gathering of the race nat) was one language: that is, all bo- m'mes, cuì poft deluvium iveque ad tranf migration, an immense multitude they propagated them, they spoke] one Whence we ask ipYimc, which il-g
what language was it? Relpondeo, fuiffe Un-fueratpofi guamfantla, primordial, like Noah and his sons, to be used by the continued Patriarch mm tradition before the flood cerant, so also the proffessor doth the same take care of my children, with other things besides this would not prevail in the world who doubted this fact, he deservedly in- He can be seen to be infatuated. About this, however no one should doubt it he wanted whether this language is the first of all then profuse in tenor and pronunciation It has been carried forward for a hundred years
Why? Babel L TOWER cab V. Why should the doubt be raised to me? If they understand each other, we are excited. mfto is praised. And with this agreement I can easily fill out the text below can be loved, to use from Paulò ante di&is paóto is praised one I will answer; with everyday us "7cxperience teaches, no language from to be pronounced perfectly, so that not much from a purer tongue, which: in the Principality pine! flourishes in the halls, somewhat deflects
and each It is believed that in Italy, the language it is clear; which indeed she properly lin gua fuerit, in the third book, giving DbO, we were going to get But to these prophecies, already at a high the branch of the tissue to be exposed let's get ready
II. the purest of all, which: nevertheless j xe Life of mortal primordials in fub- Milan, Genoa rBononic, Ve? ietiis, at Samnites, Apulos, Calabros oppidò a pri- my punctate dirTert, and yet one and it is the same language, of course, in Italy ufìtata, which everyone is talking about, and the mountains of the Ararat region, many tis peratla in years. Agna hic controverfìa inter- terpretes originates from transmigration understand each other natively; what tion's journey, first from the mountain in the pia- also from the outside of every nation I would like it to be understood that it is hardly dirty a language should be found, which: there is corruption, let it be done from the neighborhood regions and peoples strength five from the genius of particulars of the provinces, and the nature of the place live from the discovery of new words; that it is true of God, that I should not say in the province whether, then do it in the land of Sennaar
indeed, while many cannot take it There were different peoples from the East they are called viffe, whereas Armenia is not eastern, lèd borealis refpe&u land: Sennaar excels; but not in this case a little Geography: Incompetence I will find the authors to tear the text you will be taken away unscathed, little by little ciis prepared, fed not in large qui- to settle this controversy dem cities have different ways of speaking God defines it, as experience has taught us here
Which mm It is therefore asked how to do it text, the Earth was therefore on the lips of one, so- tiumin- nmdemque fermonum, to be understood there would be tours.
did he go I answered, indeed, with a ruuse of the tongue common to all, lèd pronounced Andi ways, which we call dialects mouse, different; to use in three tri- near the generations of the three sons Noah was divided, so also the pure laugh only tongue? among the princes tribes, Shem, Cham, Japbeth children and their grandson verily the home and the plebeian language from the the mixture of men, as in all bus We know it happens in other languages
a purer tongue: ufù somewhat declinàffe indeed, not so much, as not let's do it We say, therefore, that there is no my fgeculi ftatu, of the name of places to be taken into account in the manner of the first of that mountain, Ararat, which Noah and his three sons are in the flood he dwelt, and was propagated by men growing into an immense
into the valleys at the end of the mountains, to the plains He defeated the inhabitants.
Armenia he will be deceived; one smaller, the other ma- jor. She is a mayor
from the north GeorgU y five Cokhidis region, qua: & Iberia, it is called Mecrelia; Mefopota but he reflects mine from the south. Major ve- ro from the northern region of Adare Cappius, from in the west Armema minor, abortion The same three times, from the south of the Magnanimus VerfidU Athanasius Kircher Chapter V. The first ho- no threats ftattm poft the flood ver[iti ter- r#w Sen- naar mo- "They're dead.
It reflects the part of Verfidi; use this paper he teaches: and in this Ararat mountain the most famous it is jammed
when in Noah's ark it was abundant we have done, he relegates Lecì: ore to her mouse But now, in order to re- let's get ready just the train-carriers those from the East in they reached the land of Shinar. That as fcitiùsfiat, I will start the matter from the egg.
On the mountain Ararat the ark conftitiffe, Genetscap. VII. it is delivered; Noah, indeed, from a box of eggs, as we used at first through the plains of the mountains couliffe, not even in one and the same in which place he dwelt
fed now here, now there for wild places with citation and perftitifTe opportunity for not one particular mountain is rare do you think the particular effe, fèdiningen long and wide to the East the ferocity of the mountains eff
itineraries On the third day ArmenUcxt which they will write tes CbaUeus Varapbraftes Vnj ma, id it is the mountains of Gordu; But Vtoloniceus Gor- he calls them, and the width of the curve is He sets the degrees, as ex you can't get a map. And it was by, these longe latéque protenfòs mon- You and Noah were the first of one mind interpreter I found a residence to excoluiffe the fields, and the children in them neceffarii skills intruxiffe
to no one doubt indeed it must; until finally if a number of warriors were cut down mountains gurgling I will come and fill it up those who do not bear offspring, in the plains the regions of the Fuebmontanes places of fcendere compulfus, ibid. as in a larger colony on more fertile lands would base; nor any one perfù give, from the same place the people transmigration the beginning do it, lèd for many years, whether from context hiftoria clearly it is clear when between the building of the Tower the di- Luvium, as a little bit of choreography calculation we will prove
years old fpacium defniatur So it is clear to them hofce years in part housing mountains, partly in the plainer cam- pis, a partial stop on the way to the field Sennaar faótà confùmpfìfse; let's put for years spent in the mountains in plainer places j, on the way verfus Sennaar, that fpatium juxta geographic relations, two men It's a long journey, five years in a row pfiffe, a hundred years will come, who mere far away away from the factory for years The tower How already from the plain of Ararates of the country, from the East into the field of Sen- naar veniffe can be said poflìt, with a smile. It is certain that the giants of Mount Ara rat plains, into which from the valleys they had come forth and entered, once for- fàn fertiliflìmos, today partly ferri- les, in part, later reperìffe, who with in the southern quarter which, almost all the way to the Verficum Sea, fúb let the long mountains be stretched out wildly; hof the plains and the regions reflected rai Sennaar properly eastern eff, who doesn't he see? from the attached paper it is clear In these regions therefore ad Noah spent many years with the nie fua perftitifTe clerum is, that is suitable for cultivating fields, and the multitude of those rising from here and there, even by planting peridones in the vineyards come for to use the lesson of the text he has a rabica
fate èft, when them they would migrate from the East: where clearly teaches
them in this in the eastern field quieviffe, that is, unanimously perftitif. faith from there willing transfer even orphans This confirms the Stram- I will Uh. II. when he says cv rw AV- fjSpict "oMct [XxpopY), 7roMot P òj- mhd bd oig ùJ% oJt67rgAj (pviTcq pctoVùùs, 7roMct o"
Tower of Babel Lib. Chapter many plain fields in which still the Vine fa- ale is not obtained, many mountaineers some of whom are moderate indeed, altqui Valdèfeliciproventi. In this way which regions, which desire Media, fia 'Baslria became when you were Noah dwells, to plant vines
of the whole agriculture the beginnings of art Teach your children, and leave no doubt to anyone else must; I know them, because they are humane by their arts life? fìiftentanda? imbued with necessities of course as well a large group of people An"iui' life could not be drawn from whence fuosinjiru- gros plow to fertilize bant, to grain, vegetables, herbs and others were bringing the results; some people Each coffee is crushed, ad le contra suitable for defending against all air injuries they were slaughtered
then they made others officers; others they were doing things, fans others they were not lacking animal hunters to develop a suitable bus trust
of many smith's art, to every gene- ris intrumenta adeò necefsaria only were applied; there was no lack of pottery in making chalky stones, and in the furnaces baking, lime cement con- constantly busy doing; again arttbut po-
tijjìmum the weaving art of both men and women tmfrimal a weftes lines to be compared ad that men trusted to cover their bodies decently; both
girdled in truth, what kind of runes and gnomes to beasts and men diumufùs, as most necefsarius it was, it is verifiable, that they riae arti lummo futuido incubuifse
or the same reason teaches; women? but re- with the more powerful arts of the law, I will give from the first ruling ani- evils, milking cows, goats, millet, butter, and caièif confi- they occupied themselves with killing; other chickens raising chickens, eggs
that they had the care of collecting; they were not missing, where? in farm art, vi- he delights in tying together the weaves, the linen in the threads leading, but the greatest part of the lottery and he occupied himself with the miniftries of the kitchen; full and together with the daily arts of segromm forlàn care, and the education of children they spent their labor
himself as At the end of the day, the events were held together, hife as leaders of the people, Sem, Cbam Japketb, fub king of all Noah, pra? - there were those who were divided among the tribes they had prefects and the administrators of the things in which he cares food? , not hindered by those labors when abundance fails, committeba- there; and encountering difficulties, I have no doubt that to expedite them as if to the lowest of the human race, in hife regions then assembled ca- put, the king 8c the emperor, Noèmus let them run back; here, however, the behavior of the children and grandchildren, what now, and to be done here, what is to be avoided while y as a kind of public council decided And this light, which of early the deluge of the children of men drinketh rum life and actions we have taken to be said; and although there is nothing about hife in the letters be contained; interpreters, however, do not they touched them fast yet again seems to prefer a bit of reason this should be done in this way, no matter who wants it
everything was transferred to the sky, which Noem the king's high priest, and divinely illu- Who doesn't hate someone else? does he see for to use GOD OPT. MAX. him in the reborn world he had chosen the matter, so also the ipfù to those of an innumerable multitude fleas, and ruled finish with great and incomparable spirits talents, to the weight of the world for dignity tate fîftinendum has intruded.
ca- Cap. Vl. A T H A N A I Klrcheri CHAPTER Stay Noah mountain Kon Pa- out of mountain transfer grace in I will learn Sennaar it happened At the time of your transmigration from the East into the land of Sennaar a deluvio opera&o, aduz annuum, qui d? the rise of Phaleg JEc nations transmigration
if it happens in a rainy year, tametfi to file the record, however much from It is possible to collect the calculation of chronologists we become, I killed her a little before years ago, to the rise of Vhaleg son of Heber We do not believe it unbelievably. That as be clearer I suppose Primitives from the flood people
the sons of Noah and his sons polì: it was taken out of the box, not immediately the flatness of the mountain, as the previous ones too we hint defecendilse, fed for several years, first in the plains of the mountains and there at the beginning of propagation, agro- of cultivating rum, and of other arts fpecimen dedicated, while excre- flying into the immense multitude of children dine, in the plains of Iùbmontane to the crops of to render the jamaptis, in the lower defcen- they gave I suppose he was fertile; certain too and it is appropriate to reason, not genius suddenly want ten thousand the mountain, the road to the land of Sennaar fe, fèd to several battles in education push countries, which? at the end of that time in the name, in the times of your desire, and even Armenia, Media Verfia di- age? they were, conftitifse; where too Don't confuse the right pofferTores, fed the big one in order of Noah first, then of the three to the sons of Shem, Ham, and Japbetb, they were governed by the squires, and by whom they seemed skilled in the arts and experts, and already a hundred years before the flood trained by his father Noah, all pro- the art of preaching to life a series of neceflars, mode ra- They have undoubtedly learned this
before univerfà? the earth is firm would be dispersed they would miss them, at the end of which a human bus? life? to be pierced? system he could not jam, fed from hifce là- tis in the preceding chapter. How much time in the east fteterint, Torniellus certis ex genealo- gia son of Noah collects conjectures, it will be seen as a little poft; aeNembrod however, that is the argument of the uninitiated? in which year He was born when he moved from the East how many years did he live when he was one and transC it was migratory, and the arch of the tower the teólus, he retorts to invigorate. I suppose he tried; faithful exaetifiì- mum Torniellum lectus, who a year the birth of Noah's sons, in the years since the flood ufque ad, fcite lane pul- chr will write; true as a reader as if fynopfi
years old confpicate, append the genealogy here damcenfui, for from this it is clear to give what about the prophesied the difficulty slow down becomes Epilogism from which series of generations of children Noah could be collected. There is a flood so in the year First, life? Noah was born in is, in Tornielli's opinion, another and interpreter, JE- the firstborn son of Shem in the year the world was founded
There was a flood in the year menfè ootavo, Arpabaxad faìius Sem, Gomerfapbetbi's son, Se Cbus son Cbam, life? Noah
originates from the world founded Desire TOWER Chapter V After the flood in the year only Magog son of Japheth thij ScMcfraim GlmsCham, Noah's wife from around the world say
Pofl flood in the year men Noè are thought to have been born Cha- Naan Se Lud son Cbam, an- not from the world founded
Aram son of Shem, Mofocb, in the year the world was founded The flood of Poles in the year men Noah
born cenfetur Tbiras, the son of Japbetb, in the year from the world founded
pbaxad son of Shem begat Cai- nan, Noah's wife from the world seasoned After the flood in the year vira Cainan begat Sa- le, 8c Cbus Nembrod, anno from the world founded
After the flood in the year Sale he begat Heberyvira Noah in in the year the world was founded
i. After the flood in Noah
Heber gave birth to Pbakr. The first division of the gen- tium: founded by the world After the flood in I will build a tower in the year the world was founded
he After the flood in let us be of tongues, and give to the different nations, in the year from the world founded
After the flood in gnum NembrodJBabylon. vì- ra Noah from the world cond. After the flood in the year Noah will die a year from the world con- say
Can there be a flood? Ntnus reigns, year from the world cond. B E L
It is clear that all men are in mnndo and everywhere to the east of the Vbahg ih Orien- set yourself up, also a single language fuiffe to all, and to confussion of languages, which happened in the year of the pole: di- Luvius Trina then moved nations from the East, a little before the or- then Pbaleg j in adeò immenfà homi- had he raised up a multitude, like Noah? duets with the divine light, let me not take refuge in if such a large number were to be found, three regions of the world (known there, near of the three sons of Sem, Cbam Se Japbetb, He divided the three quarters, which one? about a year, as is clear from the map, around or then Pbaleg, about a year the thirtieth beast it happened
and adeò from the preceding genealogical pa- the three sons of Noah with all the sons children, grandchildren, great-grandson, ab- and his grandson's progeny, if desired out of the ark, before entering the land of Sen. naar proficiefereunter, partly in mon- Tanis Ararat recembus, partly in the the eastern mountainous regions na- I have been tossed whose, which? on the table the names are known, not the princes of the snow light, and patriarchs, innumerable which mark the progenitors of the peoples. Let us prove that
Tf quanto- must be understood in two ways pnmam do tmeUì- indeed at the rise of Tbakg, whence He- gen Yes ber his father's name to his son He did not put it in; for at this time, as The interpreters generally refer to the first It is the face of Noah's division of the nations whence in this place it is not necessary to explain that division, which: may the confluence of tongues con- what does it cost? by God's will to Noah, which was infested with Noèmic tapestry it was; on the other hand nor Turrli But who is one with the other they confuse, almost hallucinate, when she or Iphius Jofepbì teftimonio. ct(T[A. QS that is, distribution when it is said to be of ecstasy Noah Athanasius Kircher QpyiKoè distribution of the universal temperature the end of the loop, this, in which I said in the year
he was born But this becomes that, which? want to con- a flurry of languages into execution it was given, and hence Jofepbus uvyyyoiv afe! rliìù fa&hs&y, that is He calls it a confusion of tongues, because I take refuge these things beware has been division nations before the end of any con- was transfà&a by fufione, not also by desire laugh
she blessed the rise of Phaleg, at the same time it touches And doth he smite by authority? lcripturx Genefcap. X V. where He- he gave the name Phaleg to his son, because in his days the earth shall be destroyed. Who indeed obftinatiùs Confucius of languages when the former diet division the world they confuse, they seem to confuse there, when year of the clash of tongues after the flood in years, but in years after the flood, dirTerentia anno- rum happened, and hinted at the hiccevers Jofèphus The Hebrew Jeotan shouted tsr Phalegum genuity who was born while bab'u Uses would be distributed. Innumerable hu- right fantasizing? to bring the authorities here pofTem
nifi or ipfà system of division It would be difficult to have the Gentiles in this way; whence Heber did not give this name to the son of Phaleg as deeply natural as prophetic seems to be different. At least in the book, who Seder woolen e&y Order of starches it is said, Rab. Jofe says this to Paul
ber was a great prophet, because Phaleg was the spirit of the dead man jmminaYity à future Videlicet diVifionetn at the end of Life; to whom he met St. Hieron in Hebraic quteftions, Genebrardus in the chronicle: Voeabulo propbetico proVi- teeth it is Phaleg, so that it is not known in the bac division of the city of the world more fuif- the faith of divine providence and what Imman con- son, or unmarried. Phaleg And so in the year of Heber I washed away, and endowed with what at the beginning, flood32 not an I love no as j jj? who injuftè Ghw omi- they say) "Phaleg" was born; the triarch Noah, with grandchildren already in such a way exereviffe population he would not see it, as in most of the colonies they would be officiating in bringing them down, and if they were close at hand He would believe that he had migrated from this life, divine to them about the division of the World
He opened his mind to bile. Where? beautiful Epiphanius in Anco according to Noverunt, says he, all Noah, Vi- rum juftum, which when the little one effets ipfe ipfe MuVium, his three sons, like those who married him indeed he would try to bring about his children so that no evil should fall upon it, who di- they perished in the flood, not the flock through the dotlrina showed impiety to them, fed Z? perjusjuran- while from Goodwill to each one of them He spent the ergafratre dividit indeed, Velu- thou art the world from GOD confiitutus y three I was a bus uniVerfum worldfubfor- theme miffum s each part near the hearth he distributes clay
ipfi Indeed, the first-born fell for per- with faith and Baótris, both to India, and re- the race of the rhinoceroses, whereof he went among Egypt Paleftin and the region of Ma- red rice
ipfi Vero Cham has reached the earth Rhinoceros and to the Gades, to the meri- day
the third true son of Japheth met run those who fpetlant to the North from Me- day and every way to Gades
sr Rhinocuros But in this way we have done all the favors in Noah's Ark, lib. . deVifione Gentiumy where Reader another division repe- he laughs The desire for hxc is growing with clay years in the multitude of men, Noah nothing else he was doing, as next to those of the Lord accepted (grow up multiply tjr fill the earth) of transmigration that would be the beginning
it happened tan- dem, as five fbllicitatione Noè, five re- gione eastern population growth then no longer bearing, recommend as well as the transmigration of God they are lacking, namely from the East in Oca- a tooth, that is, into the earth, which it craves She was called Sennaar. Nor will I shake it Exifti Tower of Babel Lib.
Cab he knows, huiufìnodi peoples, who ad mincs tranfportandos aptiflime, already PofuhH some millions were running continue mn conti lliato her journey between the east nuato as- to spin region Perjuùs live
ocddSi'" tcrram Sennaar, emen delay.
-rT rcperment, staying there rame: hTue? - enm tantx natìltitudini lùffìcien- In my place, he prepared the food for me, the snow of the earth good, than they were running, as if ready already by nature nutrients to be entertained prepared; for cattle but you, horses, relatives, cattle, Armenian you, transporting herds of cattle, era- tes from strong compactx beams soon were made; and with this agreement, de instead into place
region re- gion the journey was continued were not even with the intention of finding land Sennaar, for neither, than of course no man yet living they would be worth it; whence it is verifiable, Noah had inhabited
they had heard, nor her mum is the leader of all, in this delay to cultivated lands gathering the fruits to animals already infinitely many the hunting of the folds, difertitis la- boribiisadfimilia coegiffe duties, not in addition to those already ex laughing with him they had moved, the food of such a multi- they fail to nourish the gods. Injlrtt- pietitz to humanely as if travel destination rant
led gradually to the caftrametants more, from the region, as I said, in the region where they find it convenient tion, and with necessary things I will give there pitching tents, and coffee they stayed together until Finally, he can travel for many years. There was no lack of intruments if, that land? not with pleasure you can't do anything to any human being just packed, fed also to use rlu- vkaufum cefl"ària, , two hundred and twenty cattle already before, they were carried, be sometimes rivers to be transferred, of whom not a few they met on the way, and at first Naomi providence, boats, and rates, to I irrigate the minibus especially, so of course abundantly wild find out that the land of Sennaar is longed for, from its destruction it was a diet of guar. CHAPTER VII. The record of the three Sennaars, which they found on their arrival from the East, delights ajfluentem-j. C. VII. cultivated plate book
ad the goodness of any country, three requires conditions. It is the first
the goodness of the climate; which where kind having obtained a bond of faith, he ex by making the lumps of earth race could not deefTe. The second is
as continuous rivers and streams al- to the shores fa&is watered The kindness of the air is triple, from everything swamps, rotten more immune to inhalation; for hypheus conditions every region blessed, native mortals, of all things for the life of the NecelTarians abundance and abundance of life fpondet with longevity, preferably fi ra farmers industria, ftudio la- the bore is cultivated. Such a region the ram of Sennaar was not a bull once upon a time, Fed and still we say to Herodotus tefte at Augustine. AJfyria, says A gufl from AfTur filw Sem, she was called
it rarely rains, but it did not rain you y as in yEgypt, fed by the genius of the Accolas 6r by labor he acquires such wealth
two hundred Vulgus y and where extremely ferocious, tre- a hundred mejje overflows the earth, four digits wheat and bordeifolia Sefami mdiiproceritas, the blowing of the trees atto Athanasius Kircher C. VII. tttdtatur (this omnifibi explored, cun-! for I moved the land of Sennaar, the first of all bells however Herodotus to remember who in the world wants transmigration tSfdkiuts cmfuit, I wanted to be credible to them, who from Mount Ararat, and from the plains shakes the land of Sen- nonltiderint, they would be taken away and spread out; palms Ve naar where
Babel- Jcunturex with whom my Vmum conspire. And all these are woven, who re- Gion hife times they fought as Peter de Falle in his Itineraries; who and he said, almost no country compa- rally pofTe with the pleasantness of this place how ancient 'Babylonia
Terfa today they say fæagaded, because of the maxi- the behavior of the rivers Tigris and others innumerable streams with which the Earth is continually irrigated, con- flow, so much with the proceeds of things, that find no one like him elsewhere cat. At first a huge crowd of palms better known? brings out the dactylos, in so much afHuence, that I should not say homi- let the animals dig themselves, je&is peraófca was, from the beginning of time discovered by them, as from XI. Chapter Gen. pa- so
then also the land of Babel the confederacy of tongues, as in the Tower the building happened, which itself is Babylon, from the kingdom of Nembrod To the writers she was called fiabylona; if you want that Cbaldxa, and finally obliging The fame of Nembrod, and of the riches glory
with the growth of both mortals with ambition, Ninm son of Nembrod, 'Ba- Bylonia Se Cbaldam líib uno AJfyrtce name, and read the first movement of AJJyrio He wanted to be called narcham, of the empire son in Nineveh, which he had founded, fetitutà Today, however, from a memorable re- in the event that the building of the Tower lest, by the division of tongues, how many papheus they find: He obtained glory through threats, and still does wheat, barley, oats, millet, and flax such abundance is seen, that at the end I was not surprised poflìt
olive trees they abound, and the great nobler so much they contribute
in addition that from the palms I also oiled Myself they extract no small quantity; They found themselves there in the best of places, in which in- countable herds, the herds to the la- those butter, each of the best meat they are nourished; so that hence Ipecie It is called Babylonia
cbuf dteam they called it is said Cbaldm from Hebrds OHbo p or JSP Terra Cbufdai, five ChaU dteorumyUti is held Gen. chapter XI lerf. $ i
Babylon, which was the king of Nabucbo Donofor the King of the Chaldeans, Scriptura he calls her But these things elsewhere when pro- skin slime We will not dwell on them. Then into this region of Sennaar I will give him the remains of Varadiph (whom I led into the village after the flood of men China Mephopotam region Confettiffe I was angry, with all kinds of delights in Noah's Ark tate, as well as the abundance of things he refers to. Ve- runi to get closer to this country alpine ciat, it is a geographical map with the eyes the reader must be explained. I return therefore
leu the land of Sennaar denominate the same as 'Babyloma elle, lu- don't Sen- we have demonstrated, from the rise of Arme- Naar.
Arabia was carried, to the south of Arabia cis, that part of the Sinus Verfici, and finally a Borea Mephopotamia, which divers it does not lack the complexity of names. Tri- they would find it ready, Ibid runt, to find no other country le polfe exifmantes, in which so many bea- they might enjoy security. Don't really if they had pierced their lives, it is verifiable, those Naomi, the father of all elione (him for prelent then fuilfe of time, no doubt bet) fole to cafes, He built dwellings to be taxed, and to be distributed ciis
others in agriculture à Noè otos, having gathered others together, with other arts to an almost infinite extent a little Tower of Babel Lib.
VII. a small population to be found
ve- wind contigifTc; with the Tower ftiendamque necefTariis, uri first in Armenia, and on the journey of the true earth Sennaar, trained and trained ifle; for it was not for the first time in the arrival of the land of Sennaar, the tower inchoaffe the fabric, or from the ipfo Sacra? Scriptures for it is certain that there will be a flood in the next year the hundredth, the thirtieth fertile to the or- then (pbalegy the first division of nations to Noah, for the first time in Sennaar the device division of languages first years after the flood They happened in the fifth month of the year from the rise of Vbaleg to the building of the Tower and for so many years in the land of Sennaar and its vicinity living in the regions of the fields to which ture? and the exercise of lying down, clear It is clear three times; where? all in the making from the prodigious fabrics which this give the state of the world the deaths of they will be verified. CHAPTER Cheap At that time Nembrod Tower architect And every drink is vixertt. As long as Nembrod lived, Scri- the fire filet, from the calculation! indeed It is clear from the letter him to brabte times peevenifsc, whence Rab- the two are talking in a silly way, that whether it was from to those four Kings
who expunging the sodomite region they knew, Amrapbel said, from the Perhaps they think that the Genevan text proves it. Chapter xiv. {y -73-)DK. aio "f? D m n nanSom: pnj that is, Faclum efl at that time, as Am- raphel G$ex Sennaar, Arioch (2(ex El- lalàr, Chedorlohomor $(from Thidal of the nations would enter into war against Beraa] {I will rule Sedom, In this text Amrapbel He is called King Sennaar; but in Chaldaic it is read paraphrafì Smì The king of Babel is the same it is with the real time Abrabx in ter- ra Sennaar, leu 'Babel no other King was rite
nifi Nembrod j infeaint Amrapbel He had no other son than Nembrod
in no other way at that time, in the kingdom of to Babylonians, and you, nay, against most of the better so the interpreters think, the same Nem- Brodum five Amrapbel from Abraham in fufeepta against the ipfòs campaign tre- by the hand of hundreds of natives, Re- do them, and one Amrapbel killed and they prove this from chap. IV. Gen. I went Poftquamautemre Verfm is bram from Chedorlahomor ûr gum? save those who were with him in Italy. Ve- the runes which exacted these things to the Chronologies Lydia will reduce the stone, he will find A few years ago Amrapbel to trust by no means polse, with Nembrod& Ninum that one indeed years, this one years ago from Chronolo- let's collect the gifmo. Who then Amrapbel King Sen- Naar Babel has been it stinks I fané, as far as my talent is concerned I would say that it is imbecile Ninye King Affy did not fuilse another riorum, (whose reign in the year hsec gefta are) a certain viceroy
five gu- Babylon, or the earth? Sen- naar fìibditum King Ninye, whom de- devoted to the law, infatuated with love then the care of the whole kingdom and Diodorus left the princes it matters; to which one seems to allude that Ifaide chap. X. verf Is it not? the princes are in great need, and lem was Amrapbel, that the Hebrew ex-
speaking in secret, abjconditimi I'm tired already if you, to TSLembrod life? let's go back years. When itacjue
he is dead was in the year of his reign, in the Tower tate to be raised to at least years, near Torniellum, Salianus, Vererius he took part in it; but the year in which he was born it has been, and it is unknown, yet verified They think that it is a conspiracy
him in Armenia born at and one of the transmigration to the ground
where? desire There was a diet of Sennaar, at the rise of Vbaleg, an- no flood at which time already into a man he had grown up years. Again, when from the year the poft dilu- the road to Vbaleg rises from Tables; from this to the year of the confederation I'm sure years have passed and will remain the difference between the years and our to whom let's add an- we, who before the rise of Vbaleg Nembrod yes We have said that we will live for years. Nembrod. let us add to these years of his reign, ha- we will drink
years life? Nembrod. Since then most interpreters in fa- Brick Tower years
some people indeed let them say that they are shaken, ISlembrodum, when was it iniana? ex- He was ordered to be executed, years of age habuiffe which? Cbronological Tables T ornielli, the Salians from the following refpon- tooth For if it is a large-scale factory we would trust intimately, most of them in it we are forced to admit that the years have begun; when no one can help me? expert to conceive pofTit, how I have so little time ipation first to the ground The arrival of Sennaar, so much? by force, end ordering huge things to the factory I will give the equipment of the Neceffarias, the tower to be exalted? they girded themselves with lefe; when from in the birth of Vbaleg ad TWfaci- should I go? the beginning of the year next to the calculation lumjampofitum, they have been pra? terlapfi But now let us hear of the Salian hife, What is the diligence of the Society? fcri- ptore When, he says, the confusion of languages let's make fion in the year bat, both equipment material of the whole to tire to be made, as if the conflruclian river tatis, r Turrìs circiter annos tenuiljey ncque required ouhs mass great- almost immeasurable, work ipfo ma- significant, and indeed not confum- mation, complete completion of the work, fed to advance much beyond the beginnings, And let us confirm this, don't you It is a wonder that Noah lived a hundred years when daughters in a broken box? per- ftitifTe, than TSLembrodeos years a? dificatione Turrls immenfie Nothing therefore, that so many years are given what? it reflects the building. CHAPTER De rnyjlicofenfu, quifub zSWofaica Turris bijloria is contained. CapJX. The scale of the human mind? im- to the becillitate, as from fenfibiliaafcenderepoiTit, GOD OPT. MAX. conceived, not so much the fifth part of the corporeal world, that of things the accounts of all acquaintances holds, fèd best ipfà facra fcri- Is there a place in which all the fapities? Himself speed? divine? the tableau lunt abondon you, so also of all of them, which one? or they are objected to by fens, or by every fen- abftrada lìint per- there is some kind of analogy, wrapped in threads, with a fourfold mind cept, or hiftorical, or tropological, or allegorically and anagogically with whom to the mysteries of the divine rum fácramenta, that is, from living things we are brought down to the inviable, next to it Apoftoli
he said more Tower of Babel Lib. Chapter they are intelligibly consummated y that is
fénfibilefque virtues of things, so corpo- pore to the world he adapted to them; as, whatever in the world obtuse mortals are objected to that from GOD in the inviable intelligible in the light of the world's laws
Hierulale ciVts effcitur: thus through love starch j every unrighteous one in BabyIon the back works. To crush autempi- ritalis Baby loniae adificium perVerftomnes exceptional their ancient Babel is imitated. Whose civitaùs, as the inscription says, Autlores for brick beams, and bitumen for concrete they had This spring is the love of the world the carnal guards more excellent expreTum
it happened Who doesn't fsrippetus fluVio- he sees or writes in the ipla facra, quot tips and names, so many things
so many tears Ugnata effe. Veruni, when these things were amplified in We are taught by the analogical art, We leave the reader with him. Poles: Arcani therefore Naomi was taken by us near Lentius refined historical mythical, ni- hil he retorts
nifi ut nlyfticos fenfus in hiftoria Molaica from the Tower of Babel let's extend the rents in equal measure; that In the first text we have And when they profited from the East
They came into the field Sen land naar babitaVerunt by him The words of this lachrymose text are beautiful tropological mystical intelligence St. Gregory l. about the move rales, where he delivers many useful dilciplinx and spiritual admonished, and so, teaching those who have rejected care, they gave all of that wealth of things fe loving confè&andisbonister- kidney, good smoke in preparing prelent life? investing in happiness those who came from the East and came to the field of Sennaar you, with bricks and bitumen They tried to build a tower. I will put it s. Gregory here are the words of St. Gregory from his commentary in his fourth year excerpts For explaining the penul- fear of that Piarmi's rod: Beni- Lord, bless Zion in your good company, that the walls of Jerusalem should be worn out, to this will read the way
One of the cattle it is either a city of Jerusalem or of Babylon
For by the love of God every child is made easy rum the impulse quickly becomes fubruan while Legimw further Veniffe men those from In the east, and in the field of Sennaar babitafle, when and certain Chriftum Vropbeta He called the East, saying: Behold a man His name is from the east. It is coming from the East Veniffe, who received from Chrift living ill run Sennaar is interpreted as excuf- I become a tooth, their life-giver. In the field Therefore they are raving about Sennaar, even though they are not in it celfttudine Virtutum, fed on the plain of Vice rum, detraSìonum morfibus the neighbors they tear, and in otwfte Vite Volutabrojaceiu you infamous circumquaquefcetor ex- they are swinging God then cut out their teeth tit, with their fatlafimulty Words con- pours
Lord he would gnash their teeth of the ear For their stench through another Vropbeta was written is computer I was truemntjumenta in ftercore. Com- for beasts to rot are carnal men to end the life of a luxurious man. I deserve it who dwell in Sennaar from the sides of the city they reject the state, because those who love pleasures nis inferViuntjdefragili matter of my mind they raise the tation. But those who are carnal Vite abdicated allurements by the works of Virility safe in feipfis fantlification oediftcant, who with Efaiapoffunt say, The bricks fell we will build it with four stones, because they are falling
he gave way to the lapu whosoever has the laziness of the flesh ftritlwris with rigor catch
who He legislated the law of the mind of the members: who
heart A T H A N A Chapter body strength in Manly spirit ro- burexcitat, which sides in bands, with which The walls of Jerusalem are azdifcentur, he commutes. Thus Grezonm. This laconic text while Ch'ilo interprets fic: This offer he said, because he did not tell them to come in the cam- the manure in which they live, fed inVenijfe cam- pum, quickly and eagerly and curiously from them qua? fe- y utpote adinfaniameor dung Itaprofctlo is Initiate not ali- honey takes j Jed ipjejibi qu&rendo bad in- He came, no container, by queue mifcra nature walks in, Jed piles it on the bad guys artibm ir execratU And I hope so he would stay there, he would migrate to another, at ipfe ha- to live in abundance; for the Scripture says that In the indented field they will be drunk in it, quickly as in the country, not as inmates external region:
for leVirn fuijfet ma- lum y fi pofquam had fallen into sins, pro they are aliens, eapegrimf and babuijfent, not for cousin homeflic is:
the pilgrims tuiffent dijcedere y fidibus antea femd ele- was eager to stay, out of comfort ilo men perftfimorum in every Vi- I dilapji the fcelm of yours. For not the wise Whose world the inmates of the world do they know, fed Strangers, remember that you are a citizen of the country and the country. Toro, people I did not agree with them tried to be good fed land ambitious afro inflated
from the name of the childish Tower we believe immortality among the poor They were going to do it
there infamy of waves of the mind would you like to re- they melted
the divine VmdiEla poured into them noting the fwne of tongues. But let us listen to St. Chifòftom
as others here also this dilertè tra&an- theme For when she explained she was alive
And let us make a name for ourselves. Look, he said to perpetuate the root of evil, me- let's die to know the remember fintpofler, such work, while let's gather fumws, let us do as never before be consigned to oblivion. There are also many ho- on the day that imitating them, with such help Klrcheri with rice They want to be celebrated. Ahi fplendidas do- customer rfdificant y balneayporticus, ambulato- nes: of whom you will be asked, why so let him work hard and make fumpts so much, He will return nothing but as an immortal I was the memory and celebrity of the name he leaves But he does not praise things so much. what a wicked crime they are preparing for him: for God's works are wonderful, insult them no- to threaten JÌLdificio boCy they say, it is, of that kidnapper of that of the Jews orphans of the fpoliator. So not this I made a memory of it, fed to the perpetual object to be infamous for crimes even after death I put a curse on the tongues of the fpetlators sharpen the blafphemia. What is this? the way it works his name and memory he who made or pojfedit y do not know for a long time. In fact, fc has things: From this point to they transfer another, ab one thing after another. And today indeed the house is called bujus, eros it will be said of someone else. And so we ipfe Vebemen- we are deceived three times, while we think us at home too much to have forever, ca of course let's just enjoy, isrfive We want yfeve no- silt, to others hey sometimes to them
whom do we love at all? or even odtmusyrelin we are forced to complain. If, then, I love the memory of the past, I will Shall I show you the way? that I should praise thee to all he will make you starch, who will also infuse you with guidance he will give the starch. Your liberality, 6r bestow the giving of money to the poor, with the remains of VillisybalneiSyalufqueazd ificies, things that is, the dumb and the inanimate. wide selection The bread made in memory of the immortal Man it is written like this: Difperfity deditpaupe- with rice y his wife remains barren li. Will one day be rich? of faith his idefty liberality mercy for ever the manfura of memory. And rurfus it is written He will be remembered forever, He will not be afraid of hearing bad things. etlè ab He will not be afraid of bad hearing. "However im- the righteous hear badly among men, of all that Yituperation Cjt
tearing apart I am against the preacher of good things lebrante they say to the cattle, then TOWER Chapter then o kind, o manfuetum bfuaVe, worthy of immortality: whose difperJet di- Viciously they did not bring him, fedperpetuò co- they imitate, they adorn, they protect, and finally in eternal they bring down tents. Haótenus from St. Chrysoftom. Roman They are seen here every day, in- xumfabri r
of the poor; what things you seek, do not find snow you will not find the corpse of a woman infpici fepulta They thought ii ctions will last forever
Well, almost years have already passed, when the snow is not blown by their rapids. Towers were being built, whose waste they would pass into heaven, fed or con- hindered by the fufion of the or by death the results, or the riots of the Belgians agitated, to accomplish what they intended they failed This is an unjust death B A B E L
rum &fubjìantiaó 0{egum other people; and this part of the putaVi I will use my labor. And when I con-
certiffem to uniVerfa works, where they did fudaVeram, I saw Vanity in all anguish of mind nothing to remain fub animal Therefore they must repaint here ambitious glory? in vain exploits building rivals be eternal: to glory they want to gain weight, in building I will praise the divine honor of the church rent in erecting xenotrophs, few of pupils receiving let them lean on their ropes
colleges youth in all good virtues that they set up the training of the arts And these are the towers not of Nembro daea, the fabric of pious minds
whose works reach to heaven and everywhere chance turns the wheel of victory, as they dye, that is, they prepare the fire nothing It is unstable, the firm Self-leaved How many great palaces, all green we see the species of delights whose authors we have denied; use de portTeflinone in poffefìiones diverfiflìmas they go away, so also gradually forget lest all should be forgotten; not even let a hundred years pass, without going into other other transplanted families, villages
let them die. And such are a soldier of the Nembrodian manufacturers, who fuperbiae offer swollen name riam of falling things op- I'm sure you'll last a little while they will perform while they are producing, instead of glory the trinity suffers a wreck of happiness. We learn all these things from Solomon. the most penitent of mortals; while vain He balances the theme of his works. killed God I magnified my works, I built my house "magnificent mouse" jr manufactures magnificient tia incredible, I stopped at Vineasy tos and orchards and trusts of the eacuntligeners trees I made a cloud of water rum, to irrigate the tree
to them to the pinnacle of eternal happiness, beyond which nothing more reflects, that defi- may be carried away But no longer established let us proceed further. What does he think of the worst of the Jews? :Phiio those men who were building the Tower
they desired to be celebrated among the hungry type image their geflìrTe who publicize the vices and crimes of the people they want to be noble, so how righteous men with virtues and benefits fic ipfi not to any one, fed by unfitness no brightness with quick curses threats and fame there Philo therefore passing these words: Let's make a name for ourselves, even if it's different we play he will write in this manner
in- shamelessness! For when you owe To hide the fierce iniquities of the darkness? do not write any text for evil deeds true at least Verifmihn quexrere, ne Vel in the ojfen of good and prudent Yiros to incur the penalty, or to escape punishments Confessional crimes; you dare in it funny to breathe light
scornful of whether threats? divine inflicts dwarven: I gathered my silver and increased it? Moreover, they are innumerable to all eVo Athanasius Kircher. Tower of Babel Lib. I. Caù. lX. ' the news and the teftes of the wicked Zephyr drink Zultió's rum
that no one should kill Ze- wild name But what kind of name pit? Certainly, what sort of fia&is Zephyr conZenit. That Zero contains innumerable Zytian fipe- ciesy which Zobk pofelri will taunt. Inefi for Zobispetulantia with impudence, con- trial with Violentici
you fall with fiaZi- tia, with immoderate Zoluptates immenfia lust, with recklessness violence with cunning malice, with falsehood the harsh, and finally, with the injustice towards the cattle, even against God is impiety. Excellent Zero glorification y to capture the celebrity of the name from us, which hidden i y fempiterne fi be done they would have to be overwhelmed by the filth. They are, however also bodie who Zalde fibi tahbm things let them be pleased, thinking that there was a fever at to get the beefy meat. But two How improbable are you? do the same foreshadowing the judgment of the sons of God and the presidents say, we are tired Why, then, with sins, be Zephyr con- cilia tsr efforts difiipatum three figs? fied He extolled the example of the boris to us Mofes the manner of the incipients
then I was not overwhelmed by the biggest apples, fied ma- nifeflè pendentives, more from the in- swears jr. Everything not the most notorious are the bad arts, which they bring violet diZina ultw Zero is the worst too they think of GOD not to be ignorant of these things malefida, and do not be of that pojfie animadzerfio even to escape Otherwise, where did they come from? effeipandos? nevertheless they said; Before how we are scattered Vrofeclò finishing those who do evil are trapped in the trap he retorted, Zel ipfios of God the matter is made, so as to compel even the poor to understand, I will confide in God's things and reason to be supported
effie jufiity a kind of implacable journey infienfia ma- to the oxen, none of their ficels impu- it is made to pass away, unreservedly and unreservedly. So Tbilo And these are of this argument signification we have to say; why already warm Let us turn to other things. ATHA- Athanasius Kircher è Societ. Jesus TOWER OF BABEL THE SECOND BOOK P F AT I
'VmpoB Noah's Ark and the Tower of Babylon in matters Bumanis nilfamofm y commemoratane dignius peraBum let's read as in which not so much the inter- pretes yfid&- profanifcriptoresy HiJloriciy cPoèta y Oratorefcjue y tum anciently and then the excellence of the gift fumma with praise, ad- certainly I y Jlupore admi- rationey while this little penitìus expenderemynonfemel impulfus y theme so noble and full of glory, I was and despite the ambition of the glory y dominating the whole town Immodicm ardor to adeò infante moltfabricam the first hofce mortalesy even with the indignation of Almighty God because many even men of all knowledge are not able to grasp I just started to clean the pojlerkris y bomines adbuc rudes Idiots, and those who lack knowledge and skills nis work, I will not say that I conceive in my mind and indeed attempt to aufifinU To this I say that I as to the licerity and the extent of the af'fjl The mental capacity of the mind allows this argument to be as minute as possible y and the notice of the truth of the aflrufifimarum y and ad I would bring to light the obleBation of curious geniuses. It happened so- that y to cumpoff about four careers of luflrs, this theme cele- A great gathering of foreigners from all over the world gation of the V1L Society of Jesus, in the Roman College Athenaeum demonjlratione no small applause y from no one except it was ptumfuerit y and adeòppres would contend only with me y to add that I would commit the benefit of the public obleBation to the light. As long as at that time I was hindered by a great variety of occupations in the exe- He could not bring down the skin so the Noah's Ark hiftoriam y This argument should be discussed about the Tower of Babylon and so on Naomi to the sons and grandsons and great-grandsons of the flood from IruBay optimofanèjure how opportuniffimè Noèmica Atcxfuccen- I began to burn. heSor coeptisfaveat SE- Chapter
Athanasius Kircher Section ON THE FABRICATION OF THE TOWER. CHAPTER You are the first to come to the land of Sennaar occupation, Jludis. Secl. I. It is verifiable
the children of Noah I want the first from the East in the third ram Sennaar motion
fta tim confilium of the Tower, and the city ex- to be trodden agitate, or ipfò lacro text while weaving it, Gen. chap. XI. Verf. z. pious nypri ìiwan Dipo Dpwai. db? neither How they would profit from the East iriìwie- they run through the plains of Sennaar, sr have They will stay there. Where are the voices (they dwelt there) a long stay in that land they indicate Grteca, cLTùèKWoun ék, and they will live in the houses of the extremity there And the Chronological system fàt fuper- which teaches
for it was the foundation of the tower Fuiflent attacked the brick, then in the year from the rise of Pbaleg and every place to the confluence of tongues, about twenty or so (I wish, that for so many years in the Tower they labored with difficulty) they would have escaped, that use the most important in the chronological gia is gone, thus refuting it he does not need when we have already learned to use the book, of all better daughter-in-law chronologically rum, interpreter conlènfù, language in the first year of it will happen. Delay So he deserved to be in the first four
bommum What is the years' ipation on the earth òen- sennaar what did they do? ? with what things have they been occupied with artibuf? And how- you want to file a record about them, the reason the mind seems to diota, a huge number of these the whole population of that time pore, to Noah, Leader and King of all, big in order governed if it was That is how I like it.
tla rum for generations from Unente, to find out In the first book we found, move, and say-JÌ redione fìià to the whole human race txmo, cxhikbnt fimul congregate prafediise, which all as a single father, du-Tou" cem fàpientifìmum, and the Emperor, both in longevity and in strength of mind, in overcoming difficulties im- terrified, And if he did not worship so much, there is no doubt about it Else must Here, seeing to infinity lest the multitude of the children of the payment and generosity, nothing else he did, how to transfer them even, and the inhabited world what to do with care and folly to encourage him, at the command of Do- to complete the mini, which was, of the co- across the face of the earth leading, next to it
Grow muU cover up and fill the earth. What Jfe- pbus fufiùs in rais de Antiquitatibm Ju- he will bring them to the gods. In order to be truly greater with the fruit Potokam the business of grace would be carried out, but it is not abfimile, fàpientirlìmumvi-
cut Noah rum in the meantime some kind of politics I sold the account to the heads of families praccripfilse? and manner in foreign countries
which they should approach, in the regions, to po- to govern the sons of fleas, near all things juftitie normative rules di&afse. Qiio- how many generations of men day by day it rose to a great increase then, Chapter I. economy take care of me he taught Noah My skills chankdt taught Noah I was praparan give-, metal- market rtiendorum pouring vumqtte ar- he taught them Noah Great of the past in the factories prodigious expiring clothes iSfolerua. TOWER then, not to be fed so much: to the multitude lack of necessary supplies ret, so as to the same against injuries also air defenses rent, soon others in cafes, houses, trying to riifque deputed for building, others by weaving and weaving others to cattle, cattle, herds and then, so much to the vietimi, and also the care of the necefsarios tos ruiise
women while in the first book of this work mus, the care of the things proper to this jesus to read So that Naomi's care providence, as long as perfect for them tit, nothing to innumerable men by which you feed, with which you confer, do not di- cam of necefsariarum, fed not to lu- indeed, nothing was lacking: because but to execute all this, arts medianica: they were required, verifiably I think he rules the metal art How did you come from the mountains? to extricate them, and to melt them with the power of fire, and to forge in all kinds of inflmments they ought, as stones to a foot to redefine and of terror of lumps property to bricks in furnaces to be cooked
herbal medicine rum strength, to the weakness of bodies but fit to heal, educate, or From this it is clear that, according to Diodorus, Baby- or years later in the rain, rare: magnificence: manufacturers they set up a case, in order to surprise while they have also snatched their lust they could not catch with these, or with the machines, I first started from the flood men came to wonder, and prodigy fa: waste T6vrifjLa! &, as while in the fields of the Tower, of the birds tate, walls, gardens penfilibus à Se- built by Nini's wonderful wife, and Counting the miracles among his heart, we wrote, they executed. Namuti&ro- fetmtx&i paulò poftoftendemuseafa- BEL LlB. II.
nor were they such, that even all of them were not known. I. xvi times, or at most monarchs, and the world powers to reach his daughters be given And the golden Itatuas} which Semiramis is the first of all in the temple Beli raised, who is not surprised? Who for the gold of the ephod was so quickly taken out, to prepare, and not even fun, and piety ilica art transformed into golden flowers did he really teach her? surely no one else but Noah, as before the flood, a Patriar- who had published, by don't have children and could, whom ipfe forfàn also ex iciency ipfì infused by DEO, about mo- and to implement the plan of his day, ?rop2 he had already broken in, winter-loving and you were a great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-grandson propaganda, equal induflrià commu- nicarunc; they want to use their strength fti, long-lasting life: , nor in- they were excellent in genius, so too live ambition glorified by the eternal name
art à Noi? ipfis traditada: , novasinfùper skills with new discoveries
so from Gen. chap. XIV. where Abraham lived the winds are still blowing, Ham Japheth, ìjiù rich in gold
it is called silver fuiffe. What shall I say of Chamo? who in iy- bringing forth the colony, soon, to use in in the third volume We declared to Oedipus, pyra- fear those great miracles of Memphis erexifse, nor an infinite supply of gold
do not use the poor Alchemist fibi fo- Meniant, the well-known philosopher's stone I do led from the mines there with gold nations, and the sands of the Nile we have reported Another Author therefore Of all these there was none but Noah who
which: before the flood I was from the plain Lamech, and I was the grandfather of MathuJala, Adam protoplafius oral tradition it's over
shared with the sons and daughters. ca- Chapter II. Athanasius Kircher CHAPTER Sit down The glass of Noah's Tower was tedificationiprtefenit: together with the exbor- tation Nembrod adprogeniem Chamtearn to incboan- while I was busy with my work. kLerique translators they are afraid him for the work of God, for the sake of men from the river of Cham piety and foolishness, lest I should GOD CHOOSES MAX. invifotentami he seemed to be nodding, not at all commanding I was tired; led by Nembrod ctis, the more neighboring parts of Mephopotam, with the offspring of Shem and Japheth ceflìfle, lest the rash men of the mountains, that Chameagens would make murals, he would see the end. what have I been at that time, the descendants of Cham Nembrod
I am the son of Cham, and the son of Chufi, a giant body fatura pras all relics indignant in the mouth of all; for it was my ra endowed with wealth, and not even a fox I was full of cunning, and of great strength the perfection of body and mind five fine ambition to dominate you fpe&es mind, to dare to smoke, nothing was missing: whence, to use faftuofo, it was no, so he did nothing, as presenting a sample of the concept give offspring I had not begun the business against Naomi He would slow down his mind. But before ìnftitutum propofìtx nobis Turris pro- to yield, first the words of the text pro- let us carry; from now on it is easy for Nem- we will understand the intention of Brodi: words are produced: Gen. chap. XI. Verf. tynb ruìbì nnn min-
tK night ptò arò wine nzivh n$njMi nitìitOri rem) not? arò nrr nonni vtawpii O'obo icjni? noi ny )h eat it And they said one to the next I was Come let me make the bricks, ycoqua- put them on fire; and they had brick walls and bitumen for cement (otherwise leótio- they have nes, instead of mud) they said; come let us destroy the city of Job, and the tower, with Let the law reach the summit of the calimus, let us do it Job's name, before we are seen in the uni- one the other to a large brod of the mountains fpecimen to show follicitaffe, which is to be held at the end of the head they could not, of course, Nembrod's ivy who was aftutia fua, and fimul à nature fibi infîte cuandià, not to say bat, fèd, and those wonderful words illegal as if he was bewitching; next to that Gen. X. Verf. i. vii i)n nnoj-rmnV roi n, nxi moo nuran pious nw pya And Chusgenuit Nembrod, ipfe began effe
ipfe famous giants on earth) tsr ini- of that of his kingdom Babel and Arach Chalne in the land of Shinar. Therefore, these ar- mis intructus, in this tenor of the verb them to the Tower, and destroyed the city father of Etion, Chamaeae, and Chuphiae family the children of the other family nephews, from the other families of Semi Ja- they had already been prepared for a long time, for fum-, which was polluting authority in mnes, addressed, not untruthfully we must bear: although these things in let them not be received with easy praises, Joseph ta- men teftimonio, an exhortation to fúos faólam, piane to be believed in we are led in almost the same way as to guess, , the last time. The exhortation is done. Nem- TOWER
Nembrod to Turrim and the city in- exhortation to choose, to proceed nicii fux the nobles performed. Noviftis, rufflor, noble, renewed tis world's great-grandmother's family, we our progenitor Noah Vrincipes fiuper umVerfias terrumfiemitas in diVifion tri- oxen, conHitutos fiuiffe; as each (The first region to be found, the same fiuofiub- would play command And so from the east plague in the submontana Ararat longelate- that I will expose the plain, become one At last, the ViVentes unanimously agreed from the plains of the Eastern ditla region, long all over the world, into this, which Vi- We landed on the ground because of the dishonor; already because of the Nembrod
of the Tower the creative boom of the genus propagation, to be built You see, in so much daily increase then to break out, like a wild beast the corners of the border region, confifte matter, and to live together; I'm out of my depth more impetuous than your conception, in this most noble together with parents and those whom the princes of Veluti tsr world you bare the earth, how fiubmififiififimo I revere, I am jealous of the distance, Ur 1e I adore nerabundws, confilium, and mind mine bedclothes day I want you to express yourself I cried. A great thing, and very difficult it is agitated, so that it is therefore ripe for deliberation business, which I will not sink into mum fiamilia nofitra prejudice to yield I would like to make it hard for you. Cont Nophies, of all our the parent Ac}ttNoémum confilia drive, you don't know fitted it is moving against the safe town tsr therefore nilnon he acts as if we were a small number, in this place to the Gentiles gathered together urge the transmigration, fool
to all you will drink machines to Will Saiyanus The execution of the torch will be violently inflamed
fethiprogeniem a noflra Cbamaa fitirpe, this instead Like a curse Gen. XI
Shame does not make him ready; no- that the same patio for the transmigration of the order see BABEL L
of mini to worship Seti's execution. I. he will not rejoice, so that he to have served my father, I deservedly married wrongs. Age- while therefore the fiirps Cbamaa, fapientia, nor not by force
number Validiffima, ne You are the last ones to return to the exchange. neither you Words with which to soften the spirits of the poor I was tempted, let him scare me. Who doesn't Vii, the poor country of the world unknown to us here and there, nor by any death Is he going to seduce us with such a habitation? de- He should flourish, who, where to go, does not know before prudent deliberate will spend Let us therefore not rest upon the warnings. on earth in which fortune chooses us to He protects us, we are perfect. See, trust banc, which modòfruimini, Sennaar region even
look at the river of things in Vi- the wealth of your necejfaria; affect ate the amenity of the places, rivers when the flood irrigates the fields they burn yes; this the bottle of happiness mm, and let us celebrate our name, tequam cumpropaginis fitirpe, (fic by the inevitable law of necessity) from We would be in turn. For truth to truth, when most of you, prxterlapfi fear of diluVii I would see them trampled, lest they should fall in this tie
the cataclysm of time with the destruction of all things behold egoduxVesler abacus the concept of danger fear you prodigal children, r immune flower, as long as I don't break my border tlaVeritis, I pronounce I'm going to tell you the truth by means nojfie fiorfian you will trust? atten say, the way bifice I will make you prxficribo Go- not only a large capacity, fied ache
the greatest magnificence together with the immense Tower of Waflitate, of which let us tire him from the top to the tail; fiì- Indeed, in this case, floods sometimes occur storms in the Banc region, in Tur- ri here, like a fialuti noftre port, Vi- let's protect each other. And since the mass is so great We have no material to build on the emptiness We must worship the work of God. Behold how much bitumen instead of a cement fin supply how much chalk, clay, and clods of earth
choose Athanasius Kircher Chapter II. the best affection? how much from confttpatis fyharum arbonbus, quantity of wood? He approaches the river and the river; nor are they dead
who in this information, no inYifo bufu- that by setting up the theater rant Eat? agitate, eruamm creUz argilUque supply, coquamw bricks with fire "Valido, fo- let's give, and I would lay the foundations next to it prototybon bujus from me Jani conce a long time ago help of all prxter bzc about the times, as unfaithful, which Secl. I. fipiritu dutli, or impulfì, who then ye- Bant good things, Arphaxad exemplified skin, which already rained years ago lyp. the journey of ITygnfumine, with uniVerfiapro- Geniefiua had defended Chaldea, ipfi as well as they are assembled together from the East, as it is exprejfè handed down to Geneva chap. XI. verf that is, not from Armenia, in one of the mountains of which the Ark was confederated because Babylonian Armenia explaining the proportions of making rice. Age- j lonamefi not of the East, as while, we will not be idle; help us in the Tables of Geograps we draw up. But ri; Zy do not doubt, the future, without that ad immortal nomtnu nofirigloria, i? ho- the knowledge of jît will overflow. let them dig high gill
others collect the bitumen and carry it The faces of these men are high, and the sides are alujornaces to be cooked
let them bring the fit ones, the unfit ones tall woolen wool suitable for work, population profile of cattle is done, and inci- we are pious work hard t fummà care dilgentia obfierVeùs ea, with which I keys ipfi is recommended for you let them learn HxclSLembrod. Today
like encouragements He enticed the hearts of the people. What? more? easily whatever she wanted, she was inexperienced He was persuading the multitude
which com to defend with a kind of attack crouch, to use to be done in general almost all perish in competition, not ta- man confusedly
led distributed services for the skill of different arts, which im- they lived, worked, and the city, Tur- no to build Veruntam bring here anything of mine to be seen, I will quote the words of Jolephis lib. I. Ant. at Torniellum, where he says: Josephus Cateràm, says he, because I am certain, pre- I will speak of tongues then biani, when Noah flies the city, Tur-. and they were advocating that the text By bringing the nether world it will be made public. Vtden- while on some occasion where the best mouth, of course attached they began to build, but it was as I think bull addition I'm going to fall asleep mole It happened from the parts of Babylonia To the Orientals, ad as soon as possible they migrated from Armenia so And with the common paffu confi- of the proceedings region perhaps too much the mountains and the mountains, the West "Worf. " they would enter like the more ferocious they would stay with us comfortably
somewhat They went southward, a field, a certain level of fire fpatiofam, what is Sennaar? soon Ba- Bylonia was called Efi. Here's what's wrong internal confidiffent, he urged, as arbttror fjf acpoflcros jamValdè very tiom ad multiplied, tyauttos, so as to land the great one
Valde welcome to the flower GOD, who ipfis and ufica ab imito renoVatl Orbi had said denub: Grow, mul- you're writing, and fill the earth
and also because that is very useful, ad Most of all, it is more convenient to live the tower was growing, it was said that they should not stay too long gravita indies defined among the iphios And they would rise. The real bull is so fantìepro- And so he said with open mind to the intent, and to other good men and women he tried as hard as he could inprtmis
as it is believed, through Nem- Brod the son of Chus, the son of Cham, who with ce to advance the swords of the mind, and of the body Vtderetur (for he was the greatest y urlaldè a famous giant, to be drunk in the text of the Interpreter Geneva chap. X) fans too to all to command very much wished that TOWER cab In order to achieve ease and convenience, He strove to hold back the cunts; and because you are strong no he dared openly shared many, who were then in the country, to be admonished, and to Noah to contradict rent, to deceive the people cleverly he did not care
as, first of all, from inVice they would leave, some kind of memorandum and the monument of generosity leave the future and praises and no- mina ipforum by celebrating cunSla they wore a necklace. But while this to please the people and noticing on the plane I did not stone the ground gillofa, and sticky, lateribufque trust suitable for killing, and more abundant to you, bringing out bitumen generously from so available building material, and occafione when they were exhausted, they were all they would build a great city three times that like all others soon in other re- the head of the rtdlficands, model queeffet, admonition and decorum, in they would erect towers, and one they would excite me with so much cunning; that To raise the light, it would be seen
Or eluVion a place of refuge, or a place of refuge. Verfutia This In truth, so o-randia Verfutus suddenly Nimrod proposed, holding back to the and to the confulerefi- but he will return, as and the fine daughter would finish, of course, as a mul- tity of a newspaper of this kind, fi- he would hold the mul occupied and united
difficulty to others longer He would procraft the regions, or even be a prodigy would prevent For he saw them in the same way convenient fecuritate so and the of the city from the ipfismet so much and so much labors that will not be easily borne Why did Vebementius take the cunclos tumper? fe then by intention fetlators ad to encourage work to be undertaken. But this was difficult for the Lord, because don't bother trying to get through persistence there you are wonderfully to the fermons of the song, so that in B A B E L I B. II. They could not understand, and at last they were removed from the work of Seti. I. bus and to the clay lands He forced them to defend themselves. tower au tem began because of the confusion of the Unguar Bel first, then Babylon with the rest of the city Yitate, er his domain is called eat this: , which we briefly read Gen. Genxr. chap. XI. in these words: And the land was two of one, and of the same When- that they would proceed from the East, inVene run the field in the land of Sennaar baby They turned and said to the other nearest I was; I will make the bricks smooth, sr cook put them in the fire, and they drank later xis, and bitumen for the
Come let us make a city for ourselves, A tower whose summit reaches the sky and let us celebrate the name of the fire, before let us be spread over all the lands. He defended but the Lord, that He might see cfbity Úr Turrirri, which the sons of Adam built, jr said: Behold, there is one people and one lips to all, and they began to do this and do not faint from your thoughts until they let them complete the work. Come, then
isr let us base their language there, so as not to I was the voice of my neighbor.
that the Lord thus divides them from that place into that they will unite the lands, and they will harden them city And the name is placed in the same place his Babel, because there I will be buried his lips less than the face of the other regions. Here is the torn tissue, who tamed
to which city and Tower He was the primary author of the creation no remember, however that was Nembrod
to some extent collected pofTe it seems from Gen. chap. Verse X
where he said, making the words of: Iffecoe pit effe powerful on earth, pò fi: few and the beginning of his kingdom was Baby- lon. And St. Auguflinus doth the same thing. li- bro deCiVit. god chap. IV. &com fortify Doótores
raised Joseph who expresses this in very clear words, first Ancient chap. this same history Joseph so writing
Three True Noah's son l you were Athanasius Cafe II. Shemas, Japheth, and Chamas, one hundred years before the flood the dead left the mountain they have taken to ravishing the plain, O" ali- le y recent memory of the disaster, pa- I saw no audeniibws from the Celfwri de- to eat the authors of doing the same
be an example; fields as soon as possible they are gathered together, the name is Sennaar. Ge- by commanding God (fubaud
mini jìe- rio Noah of all those who had been to propagate
and multiplying generisgratta, they should bring down colonies, lest in they would exercise three times the differences, fed a lot by cultivating the land, they would enjoy an abundance of crops; therefore the rude men did not appear disaster involved
I'm offended him they have been experienced by mistake; how true rent juventus multitude, GOD rur- the smoke suggested that the colony should be brought down; Uh In truth, not believing in faith, kindness and kindness I enjoyed the benefits of the breasts, and that happy the city was accepted by the forces of ferentesy di- that's all they were not obedient to him} that it was bad the border of the Colonies, not fa- A stream of light, fed inftdias they were beaten, it was evident how easily they were fent to be crushed And to the fuberbia y T)El that the Nàbrodes roused them to contempt, ready at hand
teaching not GOD, fed of their own Virtue, they are blessed with happiness must and so little by little the matter to tyranny He was pulling the same thing, he thought, as the oxen they failed in faith from GOD, beret, bringing help, against the new Another flood was approaching; tower ìiim fête êtretificati excelliorum, quam Kiem- brod of the gods tiality affected Klrcheri with which the water can touch sr infuperma-Secl. I. he would destroy the fugitives of the day. The people but Nabrodis is easy as requested rabat, thinking he was too lazy to yield to God, and so the Tower of Jiruclura occceperwit, to no one sparing of labor y and nothing to be diligent then doing the rest. And with a huge the number of works, was stealing work someone is in a quamfperaffet: weight loss theme it was so much to obfuscate the height ret and they brought the ladles to the sides mild bitumen iron. This one GOD Seeing rum Vefania, delete that
He did not want them all, when not even before dem defeat to improve mental profeceranty in the meantime, the linguist Rum Variatis, so that due to the diversity they did not really understand each other's advice. Place The true tower is now called Babylon pter confufum tongue, which the bus had been given from an egg; for the Hebrews They call the confusion Babel. De Turri but with this, and with that language, the boyin changed tis mentions Sibylla with two words: When Sibyia universal people use one word there, they built the highest tower, how to reach heaven through it; The gods, indeed, by storms they turned, and each one's own language they gave, which was returned, the Uturbsea He received the name of Babylon. De lo- and those who knew Sennaar in Babylonia threatened
Hesiaeus remembers this way. The priests say that his destruction is perfect. c the Angels of Jovis bearing the spears, in Sen- Naar (He reached Babylon. "To this end" Joseph CHAPTER III. Opinions on the height of the Tower diverge. Chapter III "m JTUlti fant various things about the altitude IVr Ine of this Tower, when
she was high, Mofes did not de- he will finish, the feds say, them it I wanted to raise the fedfenfu to heaven Let us examine these words. He- braeus text he said
ìxìi. S'udì iT-i-nwj hdh nK'i D'ava And they said; Come, let's fahke us citizens state Tower of Babel Book II
QhillJatem&Tvimmj whose cubnenjtertingat what fifteen cubits of the mountain! I. to add, or to explain literally
as his head fell in the fall. To whom he will return Greek lesson
oIkoJoyìg-o) ìoufaìg xj 7W%yov sVaj xz- 'ìm tQ Chaldara rre ly tdd rram IdeftTur- rim whose let the head be extended to the top cceli
then and let us join our opinion. So how high is the Tower protect at that time, when from confusion of tongues, Let us hasten to other things. cumina fuperafic
mountains to be found paffuum perpendicularitcr tall, pu- ISLembrod wanted to know who raise the Tower to palses, where they came to him so that they had already left then a thousand steps high, oh- pus He was hindered. Veruntam this must be proved it was, which is easy then, and not long before the erection has been interrupted So let's leave it those things that cannot be written in any way, you then it was, to do, as I said a little before, no we can, since neither writing
era, nor fofebbus, approved by another The author dares to starve that afTeverally Mr. Hie- it is; for although Hieron Comm in book of the commentaries on the games in Ifaia if let him, by whomsoever it may be said, deliver her in high tudine paffu tenuiffe. The same yet a little fubjungit
What about The diets of the Tower are almost unbelievable Herodotus. Herodotus also by the same cited by Do&ore, tametfi book primoy stopped somewhat before the end, fainting the temple of Jupiter Bel, he says, was in it a tower with a leafy height, and craf- with the sputum of the phtium, to which another rurfus was impofited towers, and from this one another to the east each, but not the heights of others it is expressed; whence (as ibid. (seems to spin) equal clays were al- security, certainly not the top of the luprema fed a thousand and a half feet high fuifTe, it is necefse; fiquidem ftadium each part of a mile is called efTe. True which Tower was brought down by Herodotus that was when the Tower of ISLembrod was in lè- with those will be dropped But in my opinion so, who thought the Tower of Babel buifTe miles high it seems from the words of Joseph the priest deduéla, where he says of Nabrod, that Tur- the rim of the faith the thing that the waters of the flood should touch they could For when the flood From this tower so high story rum orìvo cation
and again from the mentioned w hey division of languages, perhibentocca-J hurri ro fione arripuifTe Poé'tas, Ethnicolque writers, to imagine those two stories, of which Thilo mentions the Hebrew di- we are fertile in the beginning books on Confucianism of tongues: the other of the giants I will tell you, whom they bear, mountains these foperimpofùilfe, as the war of the gods bring
fed by lightning etos: the other about animals the children, who once went together You were a strong voice among the faithful about things, so that men are slow to act connivifTe. Ve- rum because lèmel eternal youth tem àiis epetere aula abeifl then a confusion of words
if you want punished But of the poets, it is not that we should be surprised, since we then it is
them from speaking occafiones hunted on every side, nor to be generally regarded as a storyteller to be had since it is very large In this kind of license, it has been a long time they fell to us, according to popular opinion he- almost a game of Horace at the beginning of the Art of Poetry tick? Titles and Voices Anything daring was a mare tiles It is more surprising and deplorable while it is, some people im- what was the audacity of the pious, and you deserve Athanasius Cip. III merits, as Virilo reports, to use faprà
qaod contains the tales of the land fi- soldier, fables, inquart, do not appeal let them be afraid
say tower building and the division of languages tes, atramqae perhaps a fairy tale, and a fal- limit j ftaltiflìma for ipfis is alive the thought of the towering tower, whose cul- men would reach heaven, nor we are inconsolable his fuperimpofitia fed languages variety fèmper extitiffe, wrong fearing, that also in error they take up the argument, incredulous to be seen (there was only one man whether speech) I have forgotten my own idiom, il- with new and unheard terms in explain three concepts, and they were not able to take them, how I put those tongues together mul} the remedy of sin introduced will be not in punishment, because the natural else they thought, different people are different with your idioms, not in a remedy quit, when nevertheless also they would see the poles of the divine lingas, infinite almost quickly extitiffe, no language unity
let me lean wicked men into evil, ma- lorum caafàm else, since then the tongue mutilated
you nodded afpe you drink and with other bodily movements, no smaller, as with words dishonesty nomnt to bring out the heart And the language the strength of the powers to more goods useful else vi- given, I suppose, to trade to teach, to teach to establish friendships and con- hair loss, and their daughters. Rtfponf10 I did not work for these things to repound For he who does not see what is the mode of difference? they are told from Moy fé, from these, as if to fix the storytellers? Indeed, the mountains to you, and thence to contend with the makers It is very clear, naturally from man Klrcheri them to be done in no way; Tower SeSl. L but the most exalted thing is to destroy, the faculty no it exceeds the human And indeed it is very difficult, I admit, by give the heights to heaven poife confcen-, that giants there And he does not rely on it the Tower of Babel was built he put down fortaffe slanderers
qaod be called Gen. chap. xi. verf whose let the summit reach to heaven. But this hy- I will say perbolically, all the facri there are exofficiors. What, then, should I say? they were standing in front of that building? What game I will destroy human glory, and no external mind, to be touched there a dispute with words Etcebremus nomennoUrum. Although perhaps even some rude The thing is that the Tower may be raised to heaven they would think, aat perhaps in the smoke- those Towers, from the flood, be forward to happen, to favor the poor, to favor they would make a strong cam, wash away the water just ten miles up the mountain ces exceflìfse But how much does it differ? Dissolved Hiftoria confafion hamana speech? , ajeWmk. from her, qaam in bratis lantar
or from this I might be worthy: what locai hominibas is natale
bratis aatem neqaaqaam; qaare ma- it is nifeftnm eft, fableofam efse, qaod de they had invented a bratora for rent; really I'm really a woman diomata, the divinity of various desires, cra teftantar eloqaia I will not continue the division of the lingas fèmper extitiffe adverlàs Wdaftrium let's find out Now it's just love, we have verified the certificate of faith and my mother, before I had left the Tower of Ba- well, just one comma neither faiffe loqaelam, nor plares. Who for if he believes, the populous anam qai ab a man even so living fcenderat bitaverat, diverfà habaiffe idiomata? That you will say how then silent Tower of Babel Lib. IL.
But in order to prophesy for us arga-Secl. Let's straighten the chin. Certainly them, that I can lead the execution of thought
Manly in booklet of con- so c ito j and then multiply be varied three times? Repondeo, not from caufìs she was injured by the naturals the will of the almighty God far away, for whom nothing else is difficult, let alone impoflìbile, no one is weak in mind, who
ignores Then we agree, the language? let the unity of men be few in number utilirTìmam; on the contrary, diversity to many inconveniences. Vcrun- yet that too is certain, in me- morato cafù fuilse appofìtiMìmum hu- manx tranfgreflinos remedy, nul- and another light was found more intrusive if he could For who kills
abundance in bad, something unanimously agreed you, as much obelse polìììt, idiomatic u effort since he perpetrated the atrocity should not be moderately encouraged leat I therefore deserved those men who Turimi want to sedify the city bant, and to live in it, cete- uncultivated regions of the world to leave, which was in every way good to the public, and with the divine dilpofition to be carried away! ; deservedly so, no confusion of tongues between he lives, and thence to other countries He brought them to live there. So be re- età niente lùpradiéfa penfèmus, cir- the comftances of time, place, and in- accuracy of the tension of those men let us consider, without a doubt also greedy tears narrative authorship
it will be a marriage, I admit, a division, and the multiplication of men Diomatus is not a myth, lèd truly, and undoubtedly divinely con- to the son of Efe Fa&am perverse
impiety and God forbid bente, edify the willing, nor their unjust intention, to the whole human race, and to the world a rare perniciousness, fittingly so remedy she was embarrassed. these things admonish those who fear impiety pturas lacras easily repuunt, briefly fintdiota
The slander of the ethnics themselves a certain adverbs liane hifi: oiiam th"icOT"m- Moyfis refutes. To whom, he says, the elders they difplict the inftituta of our people; bomines pious, and only to lay hold of the laws I was carried away, having seized the arms of impiety banc Mofis de rtdification Turris cavil they sneer and make fun of him. Even now, in they say, extolling the precepts of Veftra, as Ve- following the rules? Behold [the sharp ones, whom you call, books contain stories, such as you re- those who carry it do not want to laugh at it. About the same thing The text of the maker: Behold, there is one people, tsrunum it is a lip, and they took the beef beware, and let them not fail of your thoughts, do-u nor do they complete them with work: them Vero idfepojfte, u what they will define in their minds, believe, often give Almost all of the CbakUos, the Arabs, And the Hebrews comment on this ipf they arrived %alhag luper hsec words. ow: i rcwvi tioi vjn n xb ritti Let us build a city for ourselves rim, the head of which reaches the sky: affection rit, those ancient people were curious you some kind of duets, as what the pores of the Sun and the Moon, from which the flood proceffiffe they thought, effent, see with the legs, before polsent (3ambam says in this place, Chami ftirpern Rambam impious with AftrologÌ32 elset given, m' on the other hand, and to trust flat, to marvel at the beauty of the kingdom of heaven there, a kind of violent dilpofition iftius reign cognolcendaz defiderio ex-. Rambam what, he said; Adam came out of the Moon in Nebu this earth, having brought it with dung with branches of trees and golden trees; and liane five stories, five opinions, at least the tradition of Sabor ilse grinds Undefcedereinito, one he cried to the other
come make- tnus for us the city, the Tower, whose cuhnen Athanasius Let the hair reach the top of the sky
where? there things becomes difpofi that, where? lcges, where? governing body that: let's see be the way fît fatal il- of their bodies and let us all celebrate this deed by mentioning the name of the starches among the hungry; let us work as a unit an infinite multitude of people that's fine mouse, lest by any chance I should be displeased immediately they also fail to achieve this. Hence the story of that story we are proud of the giants, jux- Ovid. Affè&ajfè ferunt regnimi c&lefle gigari- you Altacpue congeftos firuxijfe ad fiderà mountains Then the almighty father perfregjt mijfo Olympus
With a thunderbolt, tsr uncuffed the fuhjeSlum Pelion Off Of which indeed up to now alleged it is clear, the responsible fathers want, five recklessly, with a certain impiety of fire, this one a truly prodigious amount of affe&affe. But whether this kind of fabric, anywhere natural potency could be done what kind of ipfi did they mean, mathema- I set out to demonstrate this reasoning the wall, especially when it comes to For a long time now I have been conmlted by divers, we publicly demonstrate that problem we will receive the turos else. It is true that when order, and the end of the confusion of things in let us proceed through the confusion, first, Where was the place of the Tower?
be in they wanted to exalt that sky, perhaps he should have that Tower, how many ra? they could in the construction of the Tower if he had been greedy, as much as he should have been teria, the amount of time in the same day by destruction to infuse it was
let us finally conclude this work then abne, as by any natural power to be done could, such as potiùs or iphius nature? demon and devil with strength rep Klrcheri gnaffe they must give preceding the form of the Tower Babel à Nembrod built? , than twice then his own conjecture, and imagination the nation, as well as the authorities of other authorities rites could be pre-written, we have shown. It just means that, fi Turrim ad Lune They wanted to raise the arch, which one its form, what is its height and the breadth of the we will demonstrate Demonstration From the Tower to the Moon? Exdtandt the sky tw&u. toL ìfì)e impoffibility. Therefore, in the East, they are called this is, from the eastern side of the mountain A-gratto ex it is rare, where there is a great deal of authority in this place" contention, to use as stated above
it was, while they do not understand how it should be from they came laughing, when Mount Ararat, five Armenia, where they had previously lived, multi- folded people, not eastern, fèd bore- wings it becomes 'Babylon'; us è geographical di- fciplina the matter repeated by some fools ctis, so we explain. With Mount Araraty to use from the choreography tet, from the occafu to the east, as it appears here, the long world of Thrace
to other fiioins runs chained to the mountains, ho- the menaces of the mountains they would look for a way out and not find it rent, fertile valley decurfum origin he had been in great numbers at last, through turns and windings, exit to the east of the mountains in the neck bending, at last into the plain below They fell on the mountain, and ibid. , to use we have taught in the preceding they have lived many years, Which country? Desire, Media, then to the transmigration of nations to begin, from this eastern region I landed on this plain, field this Sennaar with the two greatest Afiz flu- mini Tower of Babel Lib. IL
Capili, minibus, Tigris, 8c Euphrates irrigated, and by gathering the bitumen, others set the oven. L Then the most suitable place for building food for cooking bricks, others pro- they found Instead of the Tower to, already in this place, I fled it becomes the universal lip of the earth, certainly all of them men on that vast plain grouped together if it was, to use in the previous ones we are afraid, it is crushing He trembles at first, in so far as he threats within years (for only the length of time between the flood, and interrupts the construction of the tower) they could be paid the yielding of the human race multiplied vifioni, the goods to be collected in the value the people would occupy themselves with the fuftentation. And with these, too, he was so confounded, now it is asked, (they wanted to build a tower the summit of which would reach the first enter the vault
as a Samaritan lion he has, five to the sky the moon, how much perhaps it should have been his height: to whom ftion we will satisfy
height Lune à geometric prior ratio- We will demonstrate at dinner. And so with various reasons from pe- cation within years miles of maths ritiffims an attempt to reduce fa&am to calculus bar to one level of terror merino, yet in this place another compu- it becomes comprable; let it be, as to so then it is more appropriate for us to use it
heart Let us suppose, then, that the whole unhuman to three equals gum (jugular DEI OPT. MAX. pro- in sight of the flood fervent in Yemen prodiifse According to the fictitious years, fin- to another
and done according to the operation the rule of proportions, will come out to the circle of the earth's sphere is equal etialis in miles; when around the ratio of each circle to the diameter trum juxta Archimedes' demonstration he cleaves the throats of the spouses, either male or female, in threefold proportion, i. e. mana for he was years old marriage to which he was able to conftitirTe of appetite
spread the hand could in- We came to Cakuius to people value at ÚTe, in heaven's chronological tables afse- from where we are led to the demonstration A hundred is a more appropriate number predicted, let's keep this much knowledge, that although to someone else may be seen, if you wish, however putting this number out it is the chief, and does not differ from those which We have brought some of the Rabbis. Of these therefore half of the Tower was built let's apply, namely veri- for it is similar to the duties of the community uncertain clafses, feuordines fuifte di- [here is the method of how Mathematical (taxes, as previously divided so that others building cafes and huts
others by cutting wood, others by digging clay, every least true; or triple fu- breaking apart fêtuagefimas first men, true to the elder, and faithful to each other beant, as at of velli, at If it happens as to so to another, prodi- bit diameter of the Earth or more JL mileage
half of which the same femidiameter; perfect What is the world of the globe? will be considered from by multiplying the circumference in dia- meter, it says, miles rium; but the beauty of this will be considered let the diameter of the earth be divided into a third part When you lead the group to perfection, they will come out
miles cubic of the whole the beauty of the earthly group. earthly, it will be taken from the collected ingioi miles Italians in the center of of the earth and towards the lunar globe. Nonh ["Pef
eie tS tube. matics in the knowledge of of Lurid, and the rest of the plane tarum
alpha- -aSiglSgggBI TOWER Cap. 1JX. iphaeras, venerine, since of them, Art no- after Mania Lucu zjr Umbra, cartero- and the works of Aftronomorum full of inventions, i. e. di- ftantias fólummodò from preftantiflims Mathematics
with various oblervations discovered, and everywhere you will meet Paul I will bring Diftant then from the center of the earth u that to the Moon is threefold is greater in apogeo, minor in perigee, middle in squared Moon; we me devils the lowest to noftra demons to find the truth of the truth, di- We have chosen a number that is or Most of the three hemidiameters are the ftrononi had indeed discovered, of whom bus see Tycboncm I(eplerum, Copernicus when? and moderns, 'Blancanum, ' light and innumerable other things. So let it be fête half the Earth? , than a little before found to contain Italian miles mouse After this, I traveled miles, in half-diameters, that is, the distance You will take the moon from the earth, you will have some then, apparently Italian miles, the distance of the Moon from the Earth; be true diameter of terreftris miles, in femi- you will draw the diameters, which is closer to Difting the earth, you will have mil- the moon to the earth difference found And he owed so many miles high eff The tower of noftra
like the moon in the sky would touch Exploratà therefore Turrìs al- let's see how much That issue was in full swing; and the first who according to the opinion of certain Au thorus Let's put the Arab the tower I will guess, how others a square fuiffe they fan, and in diameter fíio, fíveuno side, oóto miles, that is, oóto mil- lia pafluum, fpacium occuparle, it will be its square is square miles bed, but already when near Archimedes ratio, the square of any diameter
three to the same area of the circle at, as to ducìis n in pro- B E L B. IL
which again according to the Rules of of the cone and cylinder dimension in ter- dwarves part of the height of the Tower, see although in duda will give foundation tem of the whole Tower in cubic miles
In addition, with a thousand one geometrical feet that paftìbus it will be equivalent, it will be according to the rules tetragonal, and cubes, one thousand square, pedani and cubic when it contains a thousand cubic feet Let us suppose that there is already one the side of the square foot of the geo- metric to repound, square fence all the stones of this kind boom
of course the stone of the said nu- mere while cubic, who are two in the whole the fertility of the Towers, they will give to the multitude of cubic sides in this im- menfà mass to be destroyed by rest vero in'va- all the money, and all the dwellings the thousandth part of the mouse will remain; The true folly of the tower, which number God is so great that he can scarcely con- he wanted to eat; whence the calculation of this Tower innumerable ablùrdas are made. CONSEQUENCES Sequiturwwo That fi (patio tr'tamOnfitl. four hundred and twenty thousand years continuously to four million the bus of people will be busy
The towers of Feptimani were one thousand miles away he rose round about, the towers di- The 5th season was not over. Followed by fecundò. If all fylva- Confili. rum all over the world whether they were brought to a place, and to- tus the world in the mud, feu ar- gillam ceflìfset, and the ocean with all bus Athanasius Chapter III bus seas and rivers on bitumen; nor wood for baking bricks, nor for ar- the earth is a small globe, nor to bitumen. the ocean would have flown. New therefore to build the world, and this double the size of the liane fabric ex- otherwise he had to walk. CcnfeB.
It is followed by temptation. What if I became a knight? miles on the river every day Slope screw? afeenfù confecifseto- a space of years, Tur- rice has not reached its peak. ConfcB. The fourth follows. put this tower Give to many people fenders fìrperafse the earth; which I am so proud of. Let it be a tower a b d, the earth ball b e d e, to be centered Of the world If, therefore, all the terrors bus to complete this device it was not sufficient, therefore come from somewhere else the vines fìppeditata material Tower de- shown? greatness above the earth if it had been lifted up, it would have been necessary, the earth I R C II E RI only outside the center of the university, wvpo-SeEi I. to go out on television, how great was of the weight of the tower ray; which excefsum juxta Statica: le- when we found ourselves, ten to connect the medians, we conclude center not the gravity of the terrestrial globe already ino, ledin I went to bed, and there when to gather at the center of the world; that be so therefore the whole earthly group outside the cen- trum univerfì, with the threat of the whole Mun- di extitifset Leólor examines the fip-uram and the truth of what I said the mouse will find So it was in vain, and flowed this is the presumption of mortals
such a thing I will not say to think, not to attempt it indeed you would; so that, therefore, it is due the rashness of God and man I will live, while with Ccelo to enter into war let them attempt it first, GOD a confusion of tongues so reckless He was determined to be punished. CHAPTER IV. Chapter He was approaching finally pus, which Nembrod in execution He would not lead them, which? already many these years he had conceived in his mind, àe Turris high
where? top of the sky Great-grandfather tinereet, fabricator; why do you care system of things
(iTurrimtrlqueundique exrnhnrta panenomi- damned by the multitude of architects, as well of farries who is the most from the daughter? be stupid genius all the conflict was open to them rushed, them in everything, where? day and night makers they would concern themselves with the execution, as diligently intruded, menfìiras to- your device? praccripfit, module, fr- ve prototypon è wood, or clay effi-
so that they could direct it he was shocked indeed it is verifiable, him How powerful was the judgment of the poor, so great? don't rush the work with a kind of refinement, fed maturely, and with a deliberative mind for many years alTe
and therefore the architect certain clans, whose other foundations tis to rent, and labors of labor they would trust in directing, others work in mining of clay, wood, and wood falling, to the bricks already in the ovens giving in, cooking, occupying there; some of the works, both in bitu- picking mine up and the fax of the rescue
then in the iron intruments, that is, mar- plates, hammers, spoons, trowels lis, gnomons, harps, fimi- book to the fabric of the necessary supplies they had to take care of preparing their minds; no those who were potters and smiths were wanting wooden ones suitable for carrying a foot, de- thence fcales, and machinifque, to the bands of to be lifted, and carried to the ex- to be crushed
because in such a large number of laborers you Atkjinjh Km s
that's all cab tudine, èommeatus, five food an- nona proriùs necelfariaeratj cecono- it's a bit weird tos ruhTc, who sell everywhere un- say I will cultivate, not even a big ca- melons, of horses, and the like in a crowded place the lever, the time of the work they would under which Therefore, by means of these minifters, na adìfi
from fl- prm indeed mb form ro- tundà, or, as others go, square (we are successful in the round) they placed them near the perimeter the amount born, then the foundations form the fabric or The first they were dying; And indeed at first, for pri- conliglamo folario, five floors, am- bitumen, leu peridrome to which vo- they floated height they exalted
through which men and animals with bitumen later unfurled easily surround they can, the entrance to the living room to avoid predation of animals infrutótum; then to this peridrome a plane from the lowest tower of Bafi
fire spoon, frve heiix fat lata paraba- there, by which I bowed down, and how much could be done, taken by road, easy the mouse was given to the wild animals. It was but this was the first fubtru&io fiibtus various chambers, receptacles, fornication owl, then at night the rest of the purses, and then to the cashier provision to be stored there. As the first floor of the Tower wallet, they were beginning to be fruitful floor
next to the quantity if you please, to which from the first laugh through the cochloid lens, five Helicus was granted to be fertile relatives; fic from peridrome to peri- the road, and from the hill chloe'des ad fingulis afendebat ul- that to that height, than GOD ipfis permilìt, while in confusion the language let them fail at the work begun extruxijje from matters clean There as lé&or luculentiùsSe#. I. The construction of the tower was contemplated here his not even genuine, fed as we are not able to conceive with our minds
lineation to be applied to the ceiling. It should be noted, however, that before fabric Nembrod, first mansions, five dwellings, and a house he began to build, lest such a multitude I am a god of men, ornili- a region that has been blasted by the blows of the air, forced to stay He built the nation; and the liane I judge the city of Fuille of which Mofes in facra come do give us citizenship Jr. Tower. but at first some rays, impo- qmm lit houses at the end of the order difpofita, Nembrod fed with architectural art Tower extrusion is the most common made
for then Nernbrodw fúb at the beginning of the Kingdom, make it better hence the form and beauty restored, ad Eupbratis Tigrifcxo. confluence of conditions he says, as much as you want about the year to be planted on the branches, ficentiflìmifque fabricis, as little as possible it will be seen, decorated Neither pu-
tet le&or, the floors of the day&ae Tower built up with continuous folly, quin nay, in huge halls within, room bus restorers provided
through which? from the peridromes within it that was granted To which but the height, prophesied of the Tower exulted Nembrod, before he they would fail with the projection, tus filet: to enjoy various true auto- rum in the preceding allegations pine nuts others to the height of the mountain others to a thousand pafTus, they do not delùt, who at a height of four thousand feet ere&am fuiffe are considered, of whom it will be done in many cases. I read more her, where? ipfi brought more, embraced He will be able to And this of the Tower of Ba- Bylonic device Mficiant. SE- Chapter I. Athanasius Kircher S e C T Setl. ll Of the futupends, 8c of the prodigies and of the cities, then the tower, gardens and miracles, à 3Yjno, from Cbuji&liis And Semiramide desires death in the embryo CHAPTER from Nino From Ninus, the first of the Affyrians
And from the noble cities were inhabited, that I came attack the whole world bus because of the lack of equipment easily ratore, varice lunt and tribute impofito egem eo- Myno. croSj and apUj profane authors, nar What kind of was Ni- not T{ex reasons We Herodotus of the Two What about him? let us slow down, let us open to a few. Therefore, as in Noah's ark mus, we believe, thisNmwwerTe him, each Holy Scripture Geneva chap. X Verf. Affur, who with It is said that the army went out from the land of Shinar. that is, of Babylon, where he had reigned three of his y fuba&is Aphyrus, sedificafTe The cities of Affiria are named there And you will have one of them left he called Ninììnn by his luo name, in which I was transferred to Babylon by the covenant of the kingdom, and afterwards Affur, that is, of the Affyrius He began to be called a king. Cseterasippius Nini received very many things, and claras hreviter from Ctefia Cnidius re- Diodorus cenlet DiodorasSiculuslib. il of things
antiquarian, chap. i. where it is said to be: We are he is born ISIinus
who his gifts letters they would betray It is nature warlike, and eager for power, when the first robust youth, of the seasons, armorumufu, to the patience of my labors, go to war he will train, he will train his army, and he will make merriment He entered with Aricus the Arab ge. And you can a few fubjungits: Ninus therefore an Arab GtSge, having taken refuge, led the army to the front The Babylonians of Arabia: let's stop them. No- while Babylonia was founded, fed He killed the captive with his sons. From there which Armenia? cities in power
you will redact it, Barzanes odd bus, with many occurrences of gifts faith
let his kingdom be comforted becomes To this NinuSj ynagno ufus mind, Ar- Menia reigned again, supplies soldiers obtained In the Middle Ages increased Iribus transferred, when Farnusex met with the army
r fagem vi- llo Vittum, with his wife, and the p-Bum of the cross liiscafrtum, ajfixit on the cross. Vrofperafortu a$xlt- tptum the desire of Ninum was exalted took of the whole Afta? , which is between Tanaim and the Nile cet y poti tineche fruitful thing indeed, as più- the ambitious rim of the elders riches And so I chose some of my friends The middle impofito, jpfe to the rest of the fubji- to kill Afia, every year ten and five, beyond the Indians r Ba- thirds power he returned Tuvnas
nctrtiTegio- Jingulas, and the number of offenders slow-moving, Ctefiam Cnidiumyé- skin, we will tell in a few words: he dismissed them all maritime and related nations, iEgy- ptios, Phcenices, and the interior of Syria, Cilicia, Pamphylia, Lycia, Ca- ria, Phrygia, Mephia, Lydia, Troas, sr Phrygiam, which is fitper Hellepontum, Propontis also, and Bi- Thynia and Cappadocia
These nations near Pontus go to Ta- for Tower of Babel Book II
for he made the river a fu# of control. He added under the command of the Cadufians, Tapyros, Hyrca we, Drangas, Dernicos, Carmanios, Rhombos, Vorcanios, Parthos, Per-
one They are called Calpiae, and many others, which recenfere the inftituto work prolixius ejfet, u noble nations. So Diodorus, to use fìi- for which chap. IL from the same Ctefia reports, He had the same Kin in the army fùo, a foot to a million hundreds thousand, two hundred thousand horsemen, cur- but the mowed country, a little less than ten thousands and hundreds of thousands, and füperaffe, etc defeated Zoroaflre, King of Baftria of us, who with an army of four hundred thousands had come to meet him. with wrifc and these things are spoken by Nini de Zoroajìre Tavi&oria poft founded NiniVem y to roafirem- Chapter
Athanasius from the words of Diodorus Siculus so Cxterùm hunc Zoroaflre eun- then ftiiise with CWz son of Noè, reports Derophus Anmanus book III. . (to fcri- bit foannes glossy book II. chap. &us in ObelifcoTampbilio ipfis iubfcribimusj and he fubjungits the caufam, which gia: and reeking of poison, Zoroastrians no the mind is gathered, whatever is against it said Tornieus. See Belifcum Tam- of the eye Indeed, in this, as re- we took, Diodorus Hiftorià, four ad- he refuses to turn In the wild, iplumfuppo I R C H E R for a long time he sat them down. For Abraham tem- Seti II. in the pores, nor in Egypt, nor the land of Cbanaan appears I was bid To the kings of the Aphyrians I am certain it is, that at that time he reigned in Egypt Vbaraone Illuni, to whom, hunger in Chananaa went urgently to Abra- ham, to be transferred to Geneva chap. XII. at PaUJìinos Abimelecb y Gen. chap. several others in the cities Chananads Rules and from the entrance in the ipium Chananceam no Mention is found in the fair of Geneva Nini, or any of his successors, that to spin, that Ninus with his dead father Deh, it would be very strange fi ipfè, or another who had reigned in Dabylon, or at Daby- King of the Aphyrians had been lord of the land he was exiled from the lonii, and he must have had to bring in the light, or thence he will go forth, that the faith of the Kingdom may be in Affy- He would place the dwarfs, and therefore Dabylom bearing it unworthily, they failed in the abyss. And I'm more comfortable writing this book of him Finally if they are true, which one? of Diodorus reports Nino (as most credible, and to be received otherwise Vererius brought book in Geneva whether as if not only from ethnic groups, ièdetiam ànoftris ecclefiafticis au- born, where: Geneva chap. X Verf. not that approved by the tories) Obfuscate seems to be inferred from these words
I will be able to draw some arguments from here Alsur was plucked from that land, sr tired j then adverfus ipfom Tererium, aliofoue He took Nineveh. Another is that God Exifminantes, about genealogy later for Babylon had not yet been founded, ; the generation must be brought down must be explained, that is, for not yet j nem Cainan, which: in the lake of the text Gen. it was finished and washed, in that way! It is not found in the common language; also divided and in that multitude, the vine of tongues must be placed in the spring and the magnificence of the austerities, what? lust for Semiramide Iphius it was broken with or è fàcro text Nembrod is open The city of Nembrod and the Tower my very first
the arch-like world first of all polt deluge mortal archite&um, and other prase- three Babylonian cities, Babel, Acbad, Tbaleg, and the rise of Abrabce in the year life: Tbare; for in this agreement the last days of Nin, from the flood they will not reach a year. For from the flood to the rise of Tbaleg (spent generation nor Cainan) are counted only ErecbjSc Cbalna extruxifse. Whence St. Au- j then it was fada, at the end of the reign vkx Ni- Guftinus lib. of the citizen of God, chap. i. ni, the years of the year namely he said knowingly; Some consider this condidiffe i Nini, who make in fummà years Babylon, which indeed he could inftau- Of course, in such a short period of years rarely When, however, or how it was founded] was, in XVI. we said to the book (I wondered whether it could be multiplied to any extent, chap. that fiction.
Further, what God said so many, and so many provinces dorus from sEgypt, and neighboring regions let them be filled with disputes, and Kings so mi- it seems to be explained by those who were thrown by Nino the Meroibs would have an army
on the contrary indeed, the self-calculated generation must, so that either not fully, or not
TOWER OF BABEL LlB. II.
the multiplication of men so much rejam else avotam, such as Ninus roaflers between le bellantcs, to force valuc- rint excrcitus adeò numcrolòs. , such as we wrote down in the procession. But as let us return to NimVem ìNino condi- as well, that I should not be curious about things in this work let us see ourselves, here city registration Leufjunga. cab not Cainan
as in the Interpreters considered, and polished, the division of language Rum incidentally anonymous44 life Pha- kg, birth Jbrabat inijoaeta- tis Tbare, as we do, far from biopoftrema Nmi times occur not long before years after the flood, as may be seen in the chronological tables
and then it is much more credible, if it were possible CHAPTER T)e tfdificcttione of the city of Nineveh mànce ejufque vajìitate. Chapter II: I We did it they vary from the seasoned world fuilTe civitates', in immenià vaftitate provided
lucceffu times a built by different Kings, as to Egypt from Membbi, Tbebis, Helwpoli tra- ancient Egypt ptores, and we how fufirlìme Tomo I Oedipus we are afraid of. He also mentions then Marcus Vaulus the Blue, then the other Fathers, wonder about the great states in in the kingdom of the Smars, of whom you read
be pla- cet, Cbina noftram illuprata not de- They also happened in ancient Europe The dominion of the Omani cities is incredible endowed with greatness? , like %oma, Syracuse lust, Carthage, and the like, and the moderns times
%oma, Cairus, Varpiorum city of London and cantera, fed to the greatness ISliniVe they will take
none I find Verùmut these are the most accurate difcutian tur, from the beginning of mom; So they went to the capital. Verf. fic is said: Dnx? rhm yj; yn nirji great GOD, a journey of three days; where Greek has a fic
7TÓKiq fjLècthY) 7W 0g(iS rupiah per liter O$Q it was Nineveh diritte maglia DEO, cap. See the journey of three days Chalktaa has a fic. pav And Nineveh was a great city gna Koran to the Lord
travel of three the day rum City that is, GOD; by which what is great in the manner of the Hebrews the mountains of God
high-spirited This rather surprisingly tor-? aria
I'm going out who translators, while the magnitude of Nimves nor do the cities seem to be wide open to comprehend; whence various entertain culis, and like this three days' journey transfixed they seem to explain For some receive it for three days journey of the whole city environment; not no one thinks, a three-year journey so intelligent ligatures, as in all things, and clays pervading the streets of the city
three days they should have been shocked, indeed very much so hallucinate, when even in one? Ro- Mana? walking through the streets of the city, more how much can he spend in three days, not tem in an environment that fpacio law of hours it can be easily accomplished; nor here, as like liquids, a journey of three years from the sea In Syria, where the ropes were vomited from the pile, and NiniVen, the power of light, with the Phoenix when the coast is more than three hundred miles the bus from Nineveh is missing, even in the context of the text the opposite seems to be the case, in which And Jonah began to enter the city one day's journey. So it was a three-day journey to buy must be understood as a city
that from his first entrance, one day the ropes were the same as the route he would complete the whole journey in three days. The rabbis also play a lot of tricks here.
while Athanasius Kircher within the walls of the councils, feddefub-S. II. Caj. II. while Jonah in the sea JWwi eatum say, as of the sea
Red jo-cinior cilet, Ica with rbccniaum ce ijje tbrmirn as to the wine of Greek voices are touched let them speak, nor the power of words in for I am here taken from Collins ifvjjiujav they have understood, a mistake I was a fool to them ignorance to be forgiven ed. we know
it is because of the relióts of the hife pleas, we say
verunia The true self registration fees must be understood lècundum dia- became the city's capital, as desired from the registration will be open: for there was a city in various the streets diva, of which two translverfàe into long wide, precisely they held a place in the city, in which They were not the dwellings of the magnates fecù
feitè demon he Curfm is called, because in it pre- the chiefs of the city, the princes themselves and the famous entrance feet gives pounds; which a parade of cavalry should be presented, to use they will give a return in miles thousand cities, whose borders are either at Vbali- feosy Sabinos, Tybur, without in Tufculanos mountains
Vbljcorumos re- firewood Ojlia Tyberma, Se Centumcellas were stretched out, and you in Amman Marcel- One they must be understood as concerning Nineveh it cannot be said; for it was a valid city to close the walls on every side and on every side, we will use it from Diodorus. Let the side of the quadrangular city be greater near Diodorus registration, feet, where? in pafTus tefòlutaiSive,
for npafsus one ftadium conft- they are So shots per divide, they give miles infùper opals: and so many miles of one had the length of the greater side he grinds from the coal; but the less side It was also done in other large cities fblet; and such a fuiffe that three days which street in the city of Nineveh? ur- he was dividing the bifurcation, and by whom Jonah, like the main road no the journey of the day was completed
of Nineveh He preached repentance. For in order to re- étè Ralbag Rabbinus: yy S vgso D'O' that is, the futi Ni- snow city marna three later from ex I tremble to the end. Verunia, these things
true else understand are worn, an ichnography of the whole city, near the deportment of Diodorus, before the I have led to explain the los leóloris, as from right form shape
length width, sides and many towers with confidence, easily and unbelievably, And I will punish you the waste of the city know As for of Ma says: One house is a city, a city with many towns Romans rimcl daudlt. city center I don't want to be hidden here
things, less than yards in length of the smaller side, and it will be the circumference of the city fathoms; these sides, my they will give themselves greater ground in the duel miles from the city, excluding minutes. From this calculation it is gathered first, Magnificent
tudo Nini the greater wall NtmVes miles vesLa- he had length, I watered him that same difference, which is internally applied, mani Se Tybur
for so many miles of this kind difference we crowded iftifufmode travel experience river, although generally miles indeed most of them hold; when, in fact, less side of the wall mile gap we have found y will have a wall bur Se Tranefte
be on this side let us transfer the law, through Tufculum, and both in Alban, where there are thousand liar The Romans were miles from here. we will have a square, which ma- He will take over a part of Latti, of which that is to say, the area will contain four miles drata t7? o pafsus squaretos. Unde it is clear, NiniVen, the greatest fuifTe civi- status TOWER OF BABEL LlB. II.
Cab, II. state and to be integrated into any province Anuria
five Affyr'ne, within the walls of those to conclude: beyond those immense walls Moreover, I was in the city of Diodorus ck, which one? or from the Euphrates, by the trail region and every ad Niniven they reached, without going beyond Himself the tiger
to which Nineveh was adjacent to Me- the borders of the region of Dorum and Elimaidvs extended, from the relation of journeys, the worst waste
which is still there be seen burning in the flames here and there they demonstrated everywhere. Neither It must seem strange to anyone, when Ctefias at Sabellicum, totani Afiam in she was summoned by Ninc, oc- and bring back the whiskey: Ninus, Diodorus stubbornly, to inhabit it he drives to a greater extent
AiTyrios, t? indeed more powerful, from rcli- who breaks off the Volunteers of the true nations, by the name of Juo calling the city Nina
diViJìt the inhabitants of the fields. Ma- For it was Babylon, according to Strabo it refers to words
in the field of Anuria. His position was, as in the previous ones we said, on the western shore of T'wris prepared and using the lacron of the definitive a great city for three days, so too the length was easy to Eupbratis extended the shores, and almost the whole of Me- fopotamia latitude west he wanted Then the whole city by various streams fomlque was irrigated
to use Herodotus Diodorus, they deliver to Strabo, lest he fail what human life? so much it would be true The towers I was in it
Diodorus tells, which indeed do not mnes inferred from meenes fuifTe, or from there It is clear that one Tower does not differ from the other The snow had to be feet long, to use ex Calculating the circuit of the city fathoms, it will be clear. When therefore Diodorus de To the towers of hife meenes- inferred nothing say, verifiably, they are partly in me- with them the main gates of the city partly in the main streets of the city which corners, partly even in the suburbs Nineveh was built. I will sit with her, Seèl. IL which: its first foundation by Nino they concern the milk, let us proceed. Porrò Ninus, as Cnidius tra- Ct
Fired us. he says at Sabellicum
Baciirian war Iubaótis, the army rich booty he brought back to Ajfyria in short about the intervening time, when I already had a son from Semiramide, who did not know his father he was called mine iplè, under the command of delivered by hand to the choir, life is deceflìt. to be spread eli: made of a pyramid. Gè-. Vyramis I was nine years old
(which Nini paiTus they do) do Ipaciofiùs evagata media pla- they mention no foundation, some Uà- days from the city of Nma. Royal that beauty remains for a long time in lustful luo a rush, with Nina the city of Ipla there it is time to intercede
or certainly not much as the Kingdom of the AJfyrs ed from the Middle Ages: nearly the same Stra- bo says of the beautiful 'Beli in Babylon, the snow that in height his dirTerat r$7fhfoyM. lu& AXètz(tvJ)o& Kxtels luu'iyov (e 7roA- Ay féovQ. fi S-agoiv fivgtoig dvf&ai hìoìv fjibuuuùV offiilèXiGoy, cétyfèrifJUL fi n HCM 7èX#SlY} GWUilSidi itS (èctinhiii There is also the cattle of Beli, now eVerfa,
it is called Xerxes. Pyramis qua+pubwa dam was square, from the side coBiliftruBa, ft. in height, each side of which fta- it took a long time; this Alexander rarely wanted y fed with many things to he will show only the land of ten thousand people it was the work of two menfis) that he had begun, It was not worth to finish, for that Or the disease Or A T H A N A Chapter II. Or death overtook him, He took care that the rest should not be neglected. took army Ircheri Meanwhile, I am returning in Afiam5ec7. il. All of them are superior, glory Nineveh And they destroyed a part of the city expertly, a part! And when he had done things, he would have understood them very well, and he had been prepared for them. the time was wasted, Ur neglected the Macedonians Beni also decided to build a huge one? to whom nations especially, like Seleucus Ni-! equal in size, nor was it before
I sing Seleucia to the Tigris founded smelled so much three hundred days from Babylon a thread exam I will continue that Pyramid of Nini Mau- ml nL oil deputed, nine hundred years not heresy uitfc, Ctefia tefte, rightly one should doubt that the future will come. And so the coats on every side rice zjr twice, which for so much work Jpecla- having prepared the river Euphrates he gave This is from Diodorus; where, however, to him contradict all the ancients, mo- last writers, she is not a fool He will speak of hyperbole; when brother
{ed fìipra Tigrim founded for the menfìira of the pyramids becomes, as al- j fuiffe
we would like to say snow, that his measure one of the four sides iùburbia from the Tigris to the Euphrates that, the area of the day neceffariò of the pyramid They extended their faith, as a little before,
should have had square feet, five And we have hinted elsewhere too. square meters
where? fpa From which destinies we have truly deduced Qmtem- occupy an area of one square mile ci poffe seems
Nineteenth year of the reign paffus, qua fané major in! ipfìus Nini about vigefìmo
to di- pere Nini and prepared The world was not alive. Whatever it happened
we put it among the stories when or the ancient mountains height fìiperaflet, juxta relatio- but I was led to explain it to Diodorus mouse of this figure more reason See the congraam related by Strabo in ichnography of Nineves. So in the year about his reign sigh, no one founded the city of Ni- for five NiniVen
throw up mouse, which of these? (crypt left Dio- the back of the ancient Sicily li b. III. chapter i where he says of Nino, that he may re- desired The Babylonian kingdom
want fuDacìam Armenia part, and that I was kindly restored to the King, and killed the King of the Middle Ages
raised up fortune, brought to mind, the whole of what should I become? lies between Tanaim and the Nile I am to reject command Why something? from media friends? forefather ipfe to reli- how the Afiamprophet was to be shunned
years and ten years, by the way gift Ba&rianos return to power go then the Baotrian war fed local difficulty
at- that at another time that expedition it is the same, that it may have begun to be built. so dem he wants the kingdom's injury to be transferred to him Aphyriam and recovered (Babyloniamj I have defeated the king of Media, Afiam for years he had already fled ten and a half years ago. I will go on the size of this city the same Auólor proceeds there, di- I think: it is not the size of the sides it was founded on vine, and it was uprooted. For two? parts of the wall were longer to the rest
as we had done a little before. The side of these. 'mqmt. auodlibet, in length big
tudorbù ejtjtadiorum brewra Vero jtadiis And the fane Jpe fua never frujlratus it is For there is no city like this in such an environment so great was the magnificence of the wall. The height of the walls is feet, the width, with which three chariots were to traverse the valley; tour a thing of the height of which is feet. It forced her to dwell on the greater exparte of AfTy- rios, and indeed more powerful; from to the rest nationibws Volunteers ajjumpftt, à name I was calling the city Nina: agropropin which he divides among the inhabitants. So Diodorus Do they agree? of this city He brought the boldness of the same magnitude, when which ones? Facrura reports about the same Jonah chap. III. verse with those words: And He was in Nineveh the great journey of the three my day TOWER Chapter days, presumably in diameter. verify for it is a thousand, phonarti preaching poetry strength, not about ambition, fed by the middle of the city; for fi fta for a long time, as they pass, eight miles it is a part, of course, of four hundred and eighty these feet make a very slow journey, that ordinarily the feet three days or four They will take three days to complete it. Hence it is clear
Geneva chap. X. Verf. as if by antonymy a big cup By this item about times, pro- the same Ninus is very because of his enormous power, the kings of that time having obtained the name of monarch, the first which is the diet of the Jjfyrios, the Monarchy erexifse This is us, anyway and also of the other three chiefs monarchies of the world, re- ges iìicceflìvè, in their own places, and tem- we will register the pores not because in- I tend to be lazy he becomes the Kings of foreigners weave a chronology
since at the end of the day ordinarily while, gives the most quality, qua- The issue is the information of those four principal of the chief monarchies, $vatuor rum, of which Daniel mentions, chap. II. ftatue that great your Na- who had a golden head, chest noforhj- arms of silver, belly and thighs Akata. ra from XYQ? iron pipes; And ch. VII. Verf
lub figure of four beftia of of the sea And Zachar chap. Lew the image of four teams
from the middle of two mountains of those coming out. for now military service diverge from them re- the direction of knowledge
properties they are to be sketched, to be drawn with them there is no need for it to be explained in a few let them, and throw the same to the fufius now I don't know the service becomes I will continue with these the first of the monarchies was that of the Jjphyrians, the other Terftrum, and the Medes, the third GrcecorumoxtiomanorUm: how- as of fecundity, likewise thirdly ri E L
The son is dealt with in the same of Danieli Secì. ll. chap. Vili, throughout, or the shape of a ram, the goats, in vicempleiantium; ch. XI. where the monarchy is briefly mentioned: The destruction of the Terfarians, and the kingdom of the Gneci the exaltation, and the praises also, and soon between The leaders of Alexander the Great arose; only four of these clear in made of books tion, not that he can give another end: they will not be erected, (vi- for we will give the power of the Turks it was Romano fucceflifte, I want it four he only Cbrifti's kingdom they had to go ahead, because in this world I give each one to the last day of judgment, Se henceforth it will last forever in the heavens it was, that I should be openly lignified' ch. danie- issue II Verf. Se where it is said that a stone that pierces the flesh, contra- He lived four kingdoms, he was made a mountain great, and filled the universal earth. Indeed, it is a stone he, the figure was Chriftiy next to that Apoftoli, the first to Corin these chap. X. verf! But the rock it was Crypt
which declares itself more openly quoted Daniel ch. verf44 where explaining the aforesaid God will suffice, I say warm kingdom which will not be difiipated in eternity, r to the other will not be delivered to the people the bus of the kingdoms, it will be puffed up for eternity; this but the kingdom, there is no other Gnum Cbrifti, Se fâncl: e ejus ecclefie Therefore, as I said about the aforementioned four Kings of monarchies and their ju- gi fucceffione, quando Icilicet, Se quot let them be said to reign for years, let us do it own places For it is true, when this argument Nembrodica hiftoria was instilled in the mind was, TSLEMbrodvzm the first in the world He was king while the Babylonians entered the kingdom she shot; But Ninus was his son, of the father Ajfy was the first to set an example the founder of the empire, the price of the work I'm afraid I'll hate you be continuous tos, to or to years or dine A T H A N A Chapter II. dine of this monarchy fucceffers next to the best of the chronologists I would like to add, not anything belonging to noftram We would see you soon, and finally Sardanapalus
at the time of which Jonah for the impiety of mortals he preached repentance in Nineveh, which when the King will accept, threats about the destruction of the city, help repentance he will divert himself from the burdens; it happened that before my nis iplé poftea reverlùs to vomit, fceleflum priest's life? smelled rep He is afraid, whence the judgment of God is all over ISLINUS Semiramis Zameis TSLinyas Arim, the fertile king of the AJphyrians. Analius
Klrcheri softness among women hxxxi- Sel. II. feffus, when he could not find refuge, ex- makeup please, the poor man together with his children of concubines, and of inestimable gold, nation and abundance of precious stones out of desperation he threw himself at him, and together with the death of his empire AJfy- Artabe led the riors to the Medes and Terfas fub Cyrus tranflatum fu. it Kings AJfyrio rum The table shows
But the kings of foreign monarchies to use aliens infused with us, so leave some of us went down. catalog tf{me empire of Ailirio rum, who brought all of us to Nino and to and fro to the last Sardanapalus the recognition of the fanguinis bereditatepa the third government is addressed. Dilu
Abraham lfaacy Jacob given to children Memphis in Egypt. Honey, Samuel Saul. David's time Sardanapalus Solomon. Jonah the prophet
The empire of the AJfyrios lasted for Kings according to the Chronicle of Euphebius ca- Moses came out of Egypt. Jewish time. Jepbte
hair Tower of Babel Lib. II. CHAPTER III. the Tower in the city of "Baby Ionic" by Nino Semiramis centumferè annispojl everjtonem Turris Nembro- xx extruBa Sett. 1L How ambitious illus, and the arro- of the human mind "Giant mode they don't know
so too Nembrod an example liver "Kinm Se Semiramis his wife to the first mine? magnificence? show off or food? , and other officials, and public they were destitute of these comforts; re- liquid? but the towers of the bed
the former they are similar to him as regards lymmetry, i. e according to the optical laws of height, in proportion to the mass must be to perpetuate the name driving; for I am a lingua franca? the towers follow acquiring glory and immortality they would have followed the former, all that tower mo- form I will give
above derelidae The tower veftigialèd a hundred about the years of the pole: rum, and desired the death of Bel) of the city of Ba- by Ionic? the prodigious magnificence of the ancient tate deltractà, a new one, than in lè- with those we will describe
not even to that extent, with which I am He had built Nembrod, i based on the maximum use in the figure it is clear, the height, and most The fabric is visible. But it was from covered with towers, of which the ma A B, to be integrated in the circle that ed, palTus, five feet, dia- the meter contained paiTus, that is two nearly a hundred feet, and as many in height Is it the first time? tower; by propeller, five the screw, which the universal size of the arti- so strangely, and rarely complicated, the slope was gently carried afcenlìi, as men and men without any difficulty reach for his comfort they repulse Other things in it are here hence, the elegant lane work so conftitue- they were exhausted, as if exhausted by the heat, and rest in peace both the plain of Babylon and its regions surrounding prolpe&us lummàlpe- the joy of the worshipers was evident interior but the rooms were withdrawn
archives les easily at eight ftadiorium, leu palTuum, or one mile high he lifted him up, whose immensity issue support? no foundation he could not match the elTe, nor the rushing the bed was so full of air, He could have lifted up his height, so fast supported by hypomochlio; as a ratio therefore the whole tower should be reduced You have to demand a certain amount as if by right it was due; nor yet even this move so he was able to fly, when he was near her, which he referred to, reason, or vehe- with a slight blow of the wind it was possible, as experience teaches us. Ve- Let us now quote the words of Herodotus, with which vines he will bring down the tower; òv tQ UpH 7w%y& g-tùèog oU 7rv%yj Sh&iiwi, ygji tTtp(&j. .fjLciKa. Yes that's it)
ìoòOm kvxXoò noivìcLg Trvqyng untrue 7roiY)lctf, fiearSvU H dvcL&cLGi-' Ì? i xatfgLytoyYi Hcm S-cocoi dvcL7rout JLM tIgi KctQifyvTèg dvcLTTcuóov- tul oi dvci&aivovlég. cv raf rsAli- tcuoù 7rvpycd VYiog iTVigx fJLiyag, wwfi one xA' (jLiyoiKn kÌHolj Sj ìg-fùùfiL n, Kg) n Tyi. mcL clkìSoa féV(rtY). Athanasius Kircher Chapter III in the middle of the temple Turrisfolida fimul, y altitudinefiadii, to whom other rurfus to Oklahoma each way. fornefecus fcaU in they are all around the towers were assembled. In middle school fight, and be happy in this, in which licet to trust in those outside, and to rest; the worst of the tower's torch is another, in which leSius eftfplendidèftratus, appofitameiu golden fa And this is the Tower that Ce- lebris, than the profane they are not able to give, and she is among the poor they pose as wonders of the world. I wonder, however, in Diodurus there is nothing about this oótozonia The tower is found, the snow forfan understands the game
(The temple of Beli, which in hife words Turw will bring it in: In the middle of the city was the temple of Jupiter The temple of Bel Belo was erected by Semiramis, whose size nor those who write because of Vetuftatetn, nor that they convey any memory in fiction: coyu let it be, however, because of his surprising height from Chaldads both east and west the tooth "Worfus, the offering of until they are done. That's from the side
and with the breath The smoke is made with great skill and great expense. in the fum- Slum, the hifummo of the temple, three huge golden ones Tuntva-ftatms of Jupiter, Juno, Opifyue erected, riafupet- auraur Tovis still exists in length A golden rose
tfjiatua. aum quadragmta, a mule the weight of the slow; The final weight in Seti. II. a golden fella, to whose knees two ad- blowing lions, juxtaposing silver every one of the size and weight of the nation it is thirty talents; A figure of Juno of the outlying of talents To these was common to all nufaSìa, feet in length, and la- protection y talent pool
carchefia talents the same that Vafa Vaporaria, both talents and three bowls of gold A thousand tons dedicated to Jupiter, tsr two hundred Ba- Bylonica hung, and each of the other tons in which all things are perfect
they stole away, and the rest of the ornaments as well they are consumed in time, as well as by the oxen deleted Herodotus tells the same thing
A tower inside the temple 'Beli ereota oótozonia, of which Diodorus filet. with the predominance of the temple, the five towers, golden three ftatus effete; Herodotus however, he mentions only one when do not proceflìffe the rent from elsewhere, mini perfùadeam, nifi or from various au- the praise of old glory, or the relation not different The truth about gold the abundance in the first days of the world more will be dealt with below. CHAPTER from a magnificent and incredible city than in Babylon Semiramis he roared. Chapter Nembrodum, before the Tower mentioned a little earlier ram was attacked, the first citizen state extruding He reports to Geneva but the size of the filet will be made textusj undeverifimilevidetur, fuiffe the city is very rudely exploited houses from the same material, which in used to build the tower, by the way done; when indeed this Paulo every day experience as a guide, in the manufacture of majo- the importance of walls, towers, and palaces what to erect?
utiacris powerful with intelligence, and every day to new things to architecture the discoveries of the spectators, the mind ad- they would throw it happened that the glory don't be fooled fblent monuments re- dissolve which I took as much as possible the future writers, and the hiftorics were amazed at the fates they could not; such were the cities Ni? iiVe à Nino in Affyrta, Semiramide in 'Babylon's construction, which human faith nav
The tower Chapter for five liimptus spent in it, fi- ve works the multitude, five deni- what a portentous conflagration Nem Ipedles they seem to be confused. Don't to say more than faith deserves dear, I will quote here the words of Diodorus Siculus: Sì ÌZtfilyyifjug xra cpvcri l&zycthe- fortitude
Pi7U[A%lJ$l)n Ti) SÓf] tv m7j (Òi&CLOÌK&lÓTCL CSTiV V3Tg6go%, , oBiMdfjLivn Sì cSr tívitcls, Go tIuu %ofìY)jicw
OTl4jCtO (TWuiycLp aVtfW r ficLoiXticts (w)c Tiw Tiyoòv TìhtiWi CtvJ)où)V jUAJejLÓLfcLS Sì&KOoicLS. Vojl Ninam from the Middle Ages destroyed
by which at the time of the reign of the Alsyrians they were conquered, Semiramis, a woman of great spirit, desirous of Vu rum rerumglortd to excel, the city in Baby- Ionia founded, widique opifcibm, and the and the sterifque to such an extent When they were ready, he added to that work the completion of the entire region of the people of Vi- millions, fjLvolOLq Sloixooìcts, they make people. IJrbs from on both sides of the Euphrates, as the middle between flow, built, whose walls surround the day three hundred sr fexaginta were completed
in many towers, sr It was such magnificence of the work, that in the wide wall tudinefex uneprodirepof the horses of the chariot fent, an incredible height to the audience, as Cnidius Ctefias says, as Clithar, chus y (sr who with Alexander in Afiam they prophesy, they cry, three hundred feet they also added five boxes of rum every year a quarter of the wall was washed away, so that a circuit of twenty-five days, as many days as a year contains Walls from bricks, afpbako given the height of the yquorum, use Ctefias Cnidius reports, pafuum; elbow high Rum effe report Jatitudu amploerquam in which two cars were driven. So Diodorus. Examination That great lane prodigy SSmavni- r
they are working on it to reduce it to calculus, fC Suiluam ea Su Diodorus ex Cte- A B E L L B. IL
ft Cnidius recites, true else fibi perfùa-Se#. II. be able to give led because the matter is full of curio let us see whether ho- threats to build a state of occupation they could Mums tefte Diodoro in cir- with whom it was years, but one ftadium contains j palsus, which one they complete the eighth part of a mile. Let's assume that the width of the wall is about yards, and the length of one foot gods fallen; these things being drawn into the law, they will give the superficial area of the wall in the palps, so that some men are called to the fore they would obtain in it the imperfection of the walls fi conftipati ftare pofTent; how- I therefore give millions of men what? as Diodorus says, am ftadias had been in the city they will give palsus in around, a quarter of which will give paplus this number is four you will give perfection of the city
neither of Macnina, nor chariots, nor cattle for the sake of men whether they should have a fine seal. If so the entire surface of the city they filled the sky, how many times hold thousands of men, whom Diodorus in the building of the city they were busy he says, they could have been able to liberate it, if anyone could to catch let's say it's snow bros and all outside the city even within the distribution of work oc- cupalte There are many interpretations in this place I find Ipnalmata, which are clearly in- you are shaking, nor calculus when, nor architectural art They understand you. But prolè- how is the thread of the hiftoria of the city of Babylon nothing What does myfteriolà mu-, y' want for me for It is certain, 'Babylonios, Ckal-HJ oljir- gods he wanted the building of the Tower
use iplè Diodorus teftatur, only oblèrvan- the art of hard faith, as well as for perpetuity
your Athanasius Kircher Cap. iy. the clarity of your Babylonian sky, lè- and purity, and because of the high tower health
he lay down since it is true the rings in days were destroyed by Noah's son that (For Noah Aftronomy taught them, the devil from Jofepbo we ftravimus) they had received, as they were glo- things I wanted so also the surrounding walls then P as if in a circle culum, leu Zodiac, in ftadias, which were like certain steps, ad memory you wish to present to him and as the inventors of Aftronomy often they gave
they left him in ruins. Verily it is also a thousand they had made a bus, the oblérvations of the leaders, as if in some newspapers, later to the rivers, some of which I find the inscriptions in Eupolemus vetuftirTimo To the scribe in Euphebius, who says, the first lácerdo of Brabám in Egypt teach the Egyptians Apstronomy; And indeed Abraham's Aftronomy I don't deny it, but his first in- fuilte the wind, admit not pol- long before Abraham rum Icientiam from Cbam, Mifraim, Se Cbus brought into Egypt from Mercury Trif- municaffe, whom and his sons Sem SeB. ll. Cbam, Japbetb, to use in the preceding we taught before after the flood in Inftituifte aftronomic precepts, then both by him and by his sons the rest left to poverty, thence pa- tet, that the wife of NembrodSeNinus, Semiramis, when from the precept of Cbami, So
Cbufi's parent he worshiped her the most runs, or from the wall of the city, which Se- He had founded miracles, years ago cycle to the number of days of the year dilpolitorum, mystical lignification
it is clear. This indeed the art of making rums then in Egypt was brought from Cbamos by no means He did not make progress in time, as if there were none almost as long as a nation has existed, which one? from the gypsies Not the foundations of aftronomy he received, as he most abundantly in the Oedi- after we have delivered the Aflrohgia of the Egyptians, The golden circle in the Temple of Iman divided into twelve figs, se qua- Drantesin Tabula Bembina Ipectables with other harmful uranometers they are clearly woven. They also report Sy- Jonathon other aftronomic matters megifto, whom they called Adris ideò, mi- [clear, from his parent in Etban, the land of the Syrians, He was richly cultivated, then in Obelifco Cbanaan, to found new colonies Tampinilo, then in Oedipus, Tome de lamandatum, where and the first peoples Aftrology of the Egyptians fufiffimè de- fibi to be blessed knowledge of the arts we would have shown So the first vo- riarum, potilfimum aftronomic di- the pupils, which he had received from his parents, But Abraham was among the rest destroyed by him, the Egyptians desired it He taught himself, in spite of his poor knowledge the tradition of the greater right Cbamo, Mifraim, all the old rescuers are gone more important Rabbis, albag, so, Henocb from Adam Patriarch VII. a year in days, the Zodiac in Logs diftinxilfe The Rabbis add, di- it was Enoch, with whom he used the tears of Geheph he says, he will live years
and it should be written. But these few admi- for hundreds of years, j fteriolam of the Babylonian wall in fta- incubuifTet after years of division, analogous to days of the year, Ipacius, if he had been abducted, would walk away I would break to be explained let them work Enoch with D E O
whose admirable works are already, as it were, to be said, to the rhombus. he was so confused Hcnocbum
Porrò were, tefte 'Diodorus, in the said rfe but she, who was cast down by Adam into the wall towers in number, of which will learn
son of MatbufaU tradi- height and breadth magnificence say, then through Lamech, Noah com- they were level with the walls; air vero lò- light TOWER Qp IV# lummodò towers were founded: they were, God- dorus afflicts the caufa, because of the surrounding swamp frequency of intercourse which: to use to cut off all access ban, so also to them the city from that at the end any tower structure protected by fate would cry But I fi throw to use li- I will say, not so much as towers, i. e. as many as the Radia of the wall He obtained, fcilicet, I was built let those towers appear like a mold some additional terms the ftincìione of the ftadios conftituta, which lustfully within the swampy earth, fon- damn weak, and much to be cherished: odd, focceffu time labefadatx, or let them fall, alas! leuffederint, quem- experience teaches us very well
architectural art rules for they will write The rest become true source, which: of the founding of the city of Hujulmodi by Diodoms Herodotus tell us B E L L
become a great fabric, ftupendams. n. let us fear, but not too much with this credulity bring us who di- he wants to burn the matter with the coal we are looking And it was said to the first country, to the building of the city of Babylon summoned by Semiramide I'm sorry times hundreds of thousands of men, who wall themselves He surrounded Babylon, a circle of ftadiorum fuiffe, qua: divilà per they give feet of one side of the city, than he says that the rodotm is square to the fuiffe; in le ftadas squared, of the whole council capacity within the city wall base in (this figure is clear; let us I've already made pieces of clay one how then ho- threats within this plane we have said that we used fopra, how so many houses, buildings, towers, palaces fans engaged in manufacturing
packed If he wants to be told, the follower will judge Le&or. CHAPTER
T)e Tonte y two royal Talatii in the opposite places of the city k Semiramide exjlruBis. cab V. PE by the wonderful work of Pontius, whom MSemiramis fopra Eupbrates, me- he had erected it; let the reader hear which: of, and the two royal palaces opposite into the parts of the city
let him say Diode. Diodorus co anno abfolutispontem, quapartefluVius it flowed more narrowly, he was ashamed, ftadiorium quinqucjdcft ózjpajfuum with a deep smoke, art in Vicemp des twelve difiantesjacles, stones #dif- iron logs mixed with liquid fattoplumbo conjoined. Before the columns ad the rush of water to be feinded, curfumqueflu I was forced to check, the firm los, from which all water flows from all sides being full of power. The bridge, that thirty foot while it was wide from cedars and cypresses and he joined the snow, the work of no one more skillful their y que à Semiramidefaclafunt From on the side of the two rivers, the wall of the three hundred and fifty, equal to the sea of the city protection from both sides near the river On the side of the bridge two tedificaYit, quee They were a slum in a large part of the city
It is evident than the defenses of the city, Euphrates through the middle of the city, in the south, the Verfus you Another truth to the east, to the west let the other fail, both with a great work fold surrounded by walls The other then the inner circuit of which I learned still latentbws "Varia animatequuequefuo in color, to express the closeness of nature fu'er The length of this draginta, the width of the sides three hundred, al titudo, ut Ctefias feri bit y paffuuum quin- forty At the height of the tower The score is elevated. Efi& the third tntimus circuitHSy who contmet the citadel, thirtyfta- of the gods Chapter V.
Athanasius Kircher The bridge of Babylon at Semiramis or, as others, à Nitocri. Seft. ll km DESCRIPTION BRIDGE OF BABYLON This bridge (made by the Gods) was fidias long, feet wide, GH
fic said Semiram. He had not cast a bow He built the faithful, thrown into the depths by wonderful art, stones to kill the firm that they might not be destroyed, with iron hooks he painted it, and filled it with undiluted lead. But before the column
They would welcome the river, angles (which round step by step they would have been born out of the waters) The columns were twelve feet the killing of These were covered with very large beams
A. the environment of the gods. The height of this building and the strength of the work of the Jiiperattfekundi wall. Ine- rant diVerforum animal figures in the rivers and walls, too, in color, tural He was an injuper of all kinds of anirnan and hunting, the size of which is four was exceeding the cubits. On two occasions Semiramis con- was shot from a pardalimjaculata horse, jux- and Vir Ninus slayed her with an arrow And he had erected three gates, things from spin fancy ornaments. Royal Ficee she was more excellent than the other The eighth part, fuity both in size and or- born For the perimeter of the wall is less than thirty feet to- dia from the side of the stove was completed, instead of animal Nini and Se- were blown to ashes wonders, prefects Sr. Thursday infuper, which the Babylonians call Belum. Inerant acies flruBct, Var'ueque Vena- tions to the Pleasure of those affected. In place Baby Ionia? more humbly lake quadratic fograpbm digs out y cujusfingula Iatera from the side of the pot, b e d and yielded to him; there were two hundred that the depth of three feet, ad which flwnine fuperinduclo from the royal jojpt He made an approach on both sides. From both sides of the truth part, from the side of the furnace to those afpbaltum fupertnduxit to four cube Tower of BabelLib IL
But they were the width of the walls of the Vigilite side, al- protection foot arches twelve Seven days work perfeSlo
the river into the previous curfew he returned. decided to them from on both sides doors deny
who fled to the kingdom of the Perfas Throw away CA Cap. Vl. Athanasius Kircher CHAPTER Se8. ll De Hortis TenftUbus exjlru from Semiramis in the Habylonic campo Twice who were numbered among the wonders of the world. don't believe bilious! of the soul size
in Semira be afraid Gardens pencils So much it was in the heart of Semiramis strength, so much ambition the ardor of the creator, so as not to rest it would be seen in a puff, until the glory of 'Nini husband to him
he would not be fooled, perhaps quaret She was the first author of I was crowded into the palace control (battery of the city, and he would build it. But what kind of hujuk He took care of him; here to his heart the wonders he knows, the unheard of things rum, and swollen with the love of those who love faithfully accommodating, it seems perfuafiffe as to the destruction of the proper gardens every flower, plant, tree thrice of the whole kingdom of the Baclirians, of which see Diodorus book I. chap. whose soul mum, all women's shame Islinus, amazed at the girdle of the he married Under this the early world Emperor TSlmo, Emperor Semiramis three
And March, putting on his spirit is done, which does not condition the female He would make a fool of himself
fed and so steep so fùblimia really ctslol j ezmrcL it was worked, so that the truth che relationship is to be believed, poftfè ways ftrucliura if the words are de- Diodorus writes. This garden, he says, Fungula luterà extended to four there Jditus Veluti was on the mountain, adiftcik one of them extructs the other, so as to his chest was long and open; teftudines in they were Pholopophites, as Hortipondus fuftmerent? from there they will grow from one place to another built at the time in greatness; for I was more important, in which the Gardens outside the walls it was contained a cubit high they stood out; their breadth was a foot muripars great impenfa of all the Gentile women they were about feet long and the reputation of many heroines he was fighting: they were stone-hewn beams the fenders seem to have been left. But when the laudinepedum in width; I'm sorry already in prxcedentibus de Turri odo- For patience oftrau arundines afpbalto zonia, and the city of Babylon empathy he is gathered together, he is already retrieving, as in the Gardens dme ftruBi; the third lead we defcribe his pcnfiles equal paffu. So therefore says Diodorus lib. III. chap. It was isrpenfilvs Hortus juxta ar cem, not by Semiramis, fed by something tf{ege Syro as much as his ungratefulness whatever Diodorus wrote here bat, I was wrong, everyone generally the old writers bring that no pride should flow to the teftudines; beneath which are receptacles, with which I swell it would flow out. Burns gathered in the bocpatimentum deep like the roots of great trees the bus of fate was making the Garden; I enter tall trees of all kinds when they returned the light also came to you They were immediately preparing the feasts, as in to them This was the only work of Semiramide, and the diVerforia were drunk; beside the water it is to be believed that when that Syrian King whose name it was in the end, in the principal king's hall, whom she should use He advanced in great favor in such a way that that of planting gardens penfi- Duftws secretly manufactured rkabat Hortus. So far Diodorus It is true that these things the registration becomes more obscure than that of it the true form of the factory is to be conceived, his here the scenography through the eyes of a eater, jux-
The seed of XI '. ir Cifri
Semi-branches Axcxs cleriiption Juas ex laraavo Poniis H&pow aJfiut'aon mojms vnp-enfis, Semvjmis cxtiux. it. Qur ad Oceidsntemjibt erat, jrrout]iodoiiis Sievits recmfat; mg artifiùts. Trinata aiaJntus So fiaktorum, etyo Oraytorum, a&ts moenttus ex coda latere- eraf. THo-ris
at 7o Oravtasjùrae&at-. ilter lomftts erat-, in carisprimo jr. nu&s, vraterauaniauoa, in crude aSuc latrrihis emms aeneric ammanitis eolorunt art
adyeriittis femliiudznem, contóteaf-. "yours finally wall-us, and mother the castle cirewn Jans
txan lahtuJme no end turn iliic erat- vartorwn full amman&um, grandmother maanituame Cured to exceed St vtter born Semiraii Jtao
txan laatJme naked Jiructnram being the most hunting there was a variety of punishments arzimanJtum, ava1 maanituame
Cufiitosr let him leave t aac Stymrivans blinded there T'arda&n. Jailing, and the prophet for detv Jitù- omffd. -ma. at the request of J'ictsris TO T H A N A SI I R C H E R what Cap. Vl. the exact wording from Diodorus the traditional tenor, to be presented cenfui Exofitto fiugularuni partimi. Totius Horti four quarters acres in length he was drinking
so as the sides of the qua- they would extend the space of a hundred acres. What, then, is meant here by a bushel? let us consider y To use menfùrà? of things they go with various occassions found
so it is also difficult sure de- to attribute the minor tenninata, ob menfurarum; , to whom do you diverge? nations they use different varieties. Sacred Scripture he says, acres, half a field, which a pair of oxen can plow in one day, as He- He has a lesson in bras: .Ttw im myn 3fnba In a mediojugeropar of oxen of the field; to whom VUNius he will write It is true that days are not hours a? quales fèmper twelve, fèd pro di- turn to reason climate change that, the number of hours is calculated; hence also the doubt I will not be able to nose. Hieronymus Mathe maticus, he wrote to be contained at feet; Quintilian feet in length even, half the width. pafsus: they give one fatium; So it will be SeEl. he one side of the Garden is feet, that is, pafsuum, which one phtadium, and
will give hundreds of thousands forty thousands of feet of squares, the area of the whole garden. Within this circle were four area? A B P X is feet long. LMNO, &NODI first but it was raised from the ground cubits, five about spans; fertile cubits high, spans; thrice na LMNO37 cubits fîve spans; quarter next to Eupbrati, cubits she was tall, that is spans; and in in this area, all kinds of plants? , flower thing, and the tree divided into five
the threads were seen, and the most pleasant pe- horticultural work, in the shade unbroken? They were not lacking here of the springs those who fail my delight forwarded; water? but by machines hydraulics from the Eupbrate in the high, as well in the fountains of heaven, then at Hortumir they were led to irrigate. And the whole struBu- this ftruótara fìiftinebatur S alci's arches
wide interftition of bricks to be carried out with the most powerful bonds Varrò lib. Acres, he said, I will be, that the proportion of areas fibi co? ren- has two square aBm; square peg each of whose bows, five for- tw, whose side is feet and the length of the whole snow had a diameter of feet dem Diodorus lane at this point but the arches were one from the other what kind of garden square feet, to be seen in OP. Infù ciem, fèd the length of only one It is to be found in the lower part of the Garden to be fattened, or from this it is clear that which device was placed? throughout the circle of the garden in the frame of the feast, by the vaults were so adorned
four acres, in which? side lines with effect in the various halls of reception they stretched out, understood the length but as much as one acre A Babylonian must be made by the feet of one the length of the side Ronymus Matkematicm two hundred feet la diftin&a and then through the arch of the gates, then through the left, they would receive the fmgula;
and this in proportion to his height they were expected to be the same in the rest of the area defines j when therefore one side of the Garden, of the five plains, the first, the fertile, four fathoms in length, and a third fùbftrudion. Never mind one acre at feet na? c with the time from the injuries of the air there was no doubt one side of pe- They would receive j damage
those big in- while, quiinparTusreductidabunt It was paved with stones, in length feet Tower of Babel Lib. IL
Decription of the flowers of Semiramis, who are called penfiles. On one side of the city there were gardens of fuppenfi, almost conjoined by the river Euphrates, who killed the miracles of the world. It was a figure of the sitios; square; four hundred feet, through every corner, with which they would correppondent fertile ter- yours AB A. C. Inside were four Atriums of the Area, feet in length, and Jaitudius, so that one would remember EFGH. The first was raised from the ground and a half cubits E. The second, twenty yards. The third, thirty-seven cubits and a half. G. The quarter next to the Euphrates, fifty cubits. extract it water from the Euphrates certisquibufdammachinis doshorts H. The whole of this structure was decorated with brick arches
fibi cohcC- with rents killing fruitful proportion of areas each of which was feet in diameter. NO. And so one of them was separated from the other by two feet. O. P. And this, indeed, both by intermediate confirmation, and by com- in the manner of the servants of certain exftru&arums there. The upper parts of these shops were originally built of large stones. bus, feet in length, and in width as in the first floor he will see Secondly, the whole of it was covered with great reeds, as in a fertile area is covered. Thirdly, all those reeds were covered with large sheets of plum beis, which; defendrentfomices from humidity. G. Fourth at last
cultivated decorated with flowers and plants. The degrees of Diodorus are not mentioned
fed from Architecture; rules They are thus prepared by us, and the letters IKLM. defiled Feneftra; marked with the letter R, there were as many apertures through which they entered the fungulae areas were given to live. Athanasius Kircher Qp. Yl. feet, and four in breadth; which: first with reeds, then with large la- they were covered with leaden threats, lest they they would suffer damage from the humidity of the earth, and planes, fubftruclions where: then through oblong canals, leaden ad extra Honors On a truer level, tell me now Zr'umqZ' art covered, the best, and the most ferocious inftrtioin the earth was piled up, so much? height tamed so that the trees can take root uBo
at the end of the obstacle they are able to spread. Strabo- Strabo in the same way Gardens will bear registration I promise this: Cam They would see the artists arbo- the things which the last plane is planted They wanted not to have a fufficient land poor
all the columns of the fiubfiruBion, whom He calls ipfietalos internal data releVifi- fe y eofine as trees planted above roots of hijcecolumns to the first square trt form confimi! is jefe gradually nuata, make a firm confidence there He adds Diodorus to irrigate Garden, water from the river Euphrates I was derived from the secret channels, which, indeed, is not a trick of any other kind he could, nifiillud, by which he wheeled through the treadmills: benefit, poured water into the tower: they would raise the height, and hence by ly- phones divide the same tree into different they would Let's see. I will take the first lowest plane so he was confounded, as if by fire would be given to eat, and hence another: Ica- la: to the third, and finally to the first however, none of these let mention be made of the Diodes, at the same time induftrià icalas conftitutas y or ipfius architectural: rule: for us, become de- They dictate the builTe. To the left is the letter R. no- father: , there were so many openings: , through which to fingulas to grant prohibited areas there Atque ha: c eli lumptuoia illa Hor- the chest of the penfilium ftrudura, how not
a few days after the departure of Diodorus in this description of the prophet
eyes curious to be explained to the reader rati fu mus. Has au&orum veterani lectioni, SeSf. IL when I used a little bit of fudge I found the exact weight ntati not conientane nor conceived the polTe of the whole itruclure ni- if such a sum were to be appropriated in another way chambers, arches, peridromes, halls, gardens, and fountains rity, to all optical projection whether the laws should be expounded to the eyes curiofi lecloris, which in this preferred fchemate we have left in which past optical projection, almost the same here fpectant. , which: in the preceding fche- mate He did not lack here in Semiramis gna: the ambitious glory of the mind; indeed beyond other cities, which are more noble Aphid rivers, like some stores founded to carry on trade. Moreover, from the mountains of Armenia, he says Diodorus, throwing the stone away, in motion feet in width ipiiììtudineque this great cur- carried by the multitude to the river, and the ship sank, Babylon lit? and erected a more impressive street. The thing wonderful to the beggars, whom for they call me obelifcum
among the fat the wonders of the world are and it was this was the first obelisk in the world, who just like that of the Egyptians to the kings
To the sons of Cbufi, the erectors of obelifics gave the origin, of which see Obeli- obelisk figum Tampbilius y Se Tomum IV Oedipius mid'
in the fertile The length of this lone of stones from one bundle into an obelisk erTor-mmum who mati, it was, as from Diodorus Paulò before allegato conftat, feet, of course
who they give refbluts in the palms height cubits, breadth spans; which indeed He ordered all of them to have many fenders obelisks, who were ever in Egypt
lustful ww'tranflati, hereótique fue- run At least the obelic Thebanus, whom today before cry out Saint John Lateranenfis ereclum we see
more Tower of Babel Lib. IL
who by the judgment of P#w, in] the hearing VI. eomm They were found in Egypt, it was important Merchants, when all whom via kinship it's here With Late ranenfi o belifco the monuments of Egypt by fire and error coniùmpfiffet, this fblom re- Compa- the verity of the movement, he left untouched. But let us now compare the one with the other. Lateranenfìs obelifcus has pal- mos, from the to the last pyramid the peak of the gods; Semiramas vero pal- customer; where? separated from each other since it is spans longer than the Lateran; he has also the Lateranenfìs liicus one of the palm trees But Semiramas which? taken from each other
he will give the side of the bafis spans wider obelifco Lateranenfì; whence im- a small amount eff it was necessary
who How can he not see? how indeed, or for what reason frog by which machines through the earth the thing deve- à place of the mountain, from which he had been exiled queljuibw a(l Euphrates river, to the most mil- machine Who knows if the liana will be brought down? ta- Qiodorus met two of his chariots say I certainly experienced, in trans- lation obelifci Vampilis from Hippo the Caracolla road to the Agonale forum veóti doótos, this should not be done with cars at all if I could have believed, of these agile fcytals I would promote the movement to the river, then the EXIF time; then in the ships hylon He was blown across the river he says, where faith seems to waver again; where? for such a ship? to be sold? no matter how much I had a belly, I was efficient let I say therefore, neither the river pro- the fund, nor the capacity of the ship so much? carrying the weight proportionately could be given They approach the river hidden snows, and the inadequacy of the soil, which or a huge ship's weight prevailing fubfèdiffet or broken by too much weight fuiffet: therefore it is true, such a contabulation of huge trees nor, what they call fences, more jfàgy- He was carried away to Babylon read In the end, these devices are so in- Static heart? not unskilled spending while I leave; as hence or from hereafter
do you recite archite&onic? fine arts to them, by 'BabyIonie' artists, exhibi- tis, let it be clear, they all that for the manufacture of neceffaries, ie Static? , Hydraulics? , Opti- ca? perfect, at the end of which nothing some records could be made, I had notice, and so when JE- Egypt and Babylon pemm exhibition, . see concert they are look, where? of the present and the family in the 3rd volume of Oedipus, from Medianica ptiorum, we have done a lot But the rest of Semiramide's gift Diodorus lib. cited, ch. oc w nice. where he delivers, the same magnanimous Libya? sEtbiopiacpic part, in the domain they were redefined, and the war carried on there geflìffe with a variety of evenness, and where neceffitas he demanded, unheard of level, and fill the valleys, Sabellus cus from Ctefia reports. And briefly touches on the fufiinm in the place cited, where several wonderful Queen? by virtue of this, and He breaks through a few teeth and that first of all, that it is a ritual
she is still immature roque ad bell son li fùftinendamcenlùitdonec, finally with things preeminently given, problem, which one? he would also precede men by virtue
to whom therefore no one deigns to obey clear And so in the year of the world my diet? In the defining year of Semiramis, Sarah died at the end of the year xoris Abrabajizctttt eftjdefuncliam ef. fé Semiramis the Queen of the djfyrios, fì- indeed iffa (tefte Euphebius in the Chronicle He reigned as his husband for four years dragged by two that deliver ì)io- the book of ancient things kicking in pita the fifth; from Trogo Tompejo Juftinut about the beginnings of the book in the year of the world by which Athanasius Cap. Vl. which the Chronologists say, the same re- began to know, in the same year of course, where she was born eli: Sarah, from whom to this whether chronologically I don't know you will find He was twenty-two and forty years old. MorsSc- Which queen is this? on the other hand, because The most famous glory of the gay world with the strength of a manly man, gifted, unhappy however, it is ugly and unseemly Juftinus wrote, "Lupra. " in the quoted place, dic@ns, it to Nino mino- indeed, if his own son had been slain that although the old woman (for she was two twenty years old, as he reports from Ctefia Diodorus instead quoted) dine, his incestuous intercourse ex- petivilTet And this, as if more re- taken, they also report B. Augujlinm of the citizen God, book l Genebrard lib. i. fu& Cbronologite
others that the au&ores However, Diodorus Iuprà When the agent reported his death, he said that ipfa detetlis, which to him Ninuser the eunuch ready to unfaithfulness, and every injury Ammons refponfum remiffdy with all bus, to the son, to give birth to the king, to the prophetic man dajfety èvejligio evanuit near the gods Klrcheri The refponfum of the oracle, as it is believed, trans- Seti. IL broad So Diodorus; who wants these I'll give you a fabulous story, to whom also seems to revoke the faith of the former. In the year about the next in-J
Queen of the land? lucceilitw Nini Zameis, who Ntnias, on the river Ninus mi- Nor, the son of the elder Ninus and Semiramide. the third king of the Ajjyrians, as written Euphebius was dissolved in Cbronic'ts hifto- next to the riches, Juflinus Dio- back of whom we will read the book III. chap. of this Regisvita, morefque, the reason of birth, at length diverged from those who are older than him rant that you were also in the same desire which was brought to Sardanapalus; and the same almost breaks through in a few places of this same Nino my saying nore: Ninias elaborately dressed he was content with the command, and depojuity with war if he will change the girdle with his mother, ra rò à Yiris Vifus conte a group of night Vofteri also made examples of it, They gave refponfa to the nations through messengers. So he CHAPTER VII. You are amazed at the wonders of the fabric
in imitation of the Babylonians and they exhibited C. VII. "If you want to divide the lin- H guarum Chus, and to each of his sons, Miphi irdtm, Nembrod, and their nephew tibus fimul in. 'Babyloniaj Nembrod cùm powerful with strength, five by force, five by the tyranny of the Babylonian government having conquered, his brothers and sons the greatness of the mind, and in the construction should it be huge? the tower's mass, skill, Nini, too, in seeking kingdoms glory, and citizenship, than in had founded an incomparable vain time, fucceffu too, fu- bad? too
prodigious? almost magnificence? monuments in Babylon nia, erected by Semiramis, the wife of Nini, am- bition cedar with a number of portentous devices, they would compare the name of the immortal to him; suddenly, perhaps in Egypt they will reach the Colony They immediately attacked them, to which (Babylonios relatives they would not equal fi to them they would not yield plow Tower of Babel Lib. II. C. VII. pious Semiramis, than with Maufò- Leo, five pyramids useless? ma- of gnitudinis for the husband I was remembered in Babylon nia extruxiffe, obelifcum also, which the greatest in the world à poiteris viiùs not e(t, in the main street of when in- to the believable wonder of all shllBi one will get to know each other. Hifce ma- byion with blazes, where? next to they had seen, or in the relation of others evgetìdh. they had read, they were driven, ipfì pyramidi- bus, and make all Egypt re- they wept, the rings of the maidens, labyrinths and made by human faith to the fuperiers, they took possession of them, human power has never been adequate it was worth it Which one is true? they a have been although in the 3rd volume of Oedipus pliflimè decripférimus, here, however, by repeating a few exponents mZflmi- a cux That before it happens, why lòia He calls Enocbia, axlificafle, from OcnefiSeEì. W. it is known. What kind of things do you use from the west? depends on the worship of God's judgments, so don't it would be right if we understood it as a human being to grasp the guftiis; this we want to say, Samus Japbe- tbum
so also to all in other ways, in this I continued to be the only one pious parent fool tation incubuilfe, as through children and then with new fèmper and new fèmper founded colonies, world land? , to the inhabitants, together with divine the propagation of the cult they would complete: Chamxa, indeed, the family split the spear into pieces, and idolatry dedicated He meant nothing, he said through the unheard of the wool will break, and the work will be great I dined divinely among the lustful, ho- they would compare their knowledge, and therefore and the glory of this happiness with the stern they would exchange by death. When these things are true ha so from the three sons of Cbam, Shem 8c fapbetb all that has been handed down pomegranate monument ta pofì fé with dictions fúbje&a liquerty
left not, indeed, a man who spends his time performing works Scmi laughs ffphetbi vero ftirpem DEO Japheth so, shall we find none of these praftitiffe? I wonder why before the flood, no one neither of the Patriarchs, to invent something the monument of the police mus, I will send Cain to GOD as well diótum, - which, nevertheless, of all mum, waftiflìmam city, city I say the giant, how to make the text iiofiro Oedipus the Egyptian We sent him back. It reflects something like this some wonderful works exhibit tion, bringing with it a portent of manufactures mouse, the reader will gather from all of them which would make the world wonder they drew him, the greatness of the gifts Aiòlà the offspring of Cbami, to whom then BabyIo- nica land, then in a strong and- He was a coward. But now to rhombus Of the Pyramids start mouse section Chapter Athanasius Kircher S E C T III. Setlm. Of prodigies the fabric of Egypt, which Chufìa descendants to imitate relatives brod y 3SQni Semiramis in the kingdoms of "Babylonia Affy. " They set up things in the world in Egypt. P (JE F JT I
In the third volume of the Oedipus there is a discussion about this ide the mechanics of the Egyptians, how abundantly dijferueri mouse: nevertheless, in this place, it is very convenient to repeat nothing of them I was But to the point. CHAPTER Tyramides was killed in Egypt. Magnificent hundreds fpkndor pyramid while Herod in the EU take it Diodorus Pyramus of all greatest written down How much has been pyramid Egypt was destroyed by the kings of Egypt magnificence
greatness, gathered from this among the esters, because the unanimous consent of the scribes rti, or even then, when the Roman all the places of the world it fits
between there were miracles of the world counted And tametfi various sgy- pti involent places of this kind of tower the amount of money that was made was based on: however, it is mythical between everything else the argument of wonder and ve- The clays were a wonder of the world. hero endowment, which, tefte Vlinio this side of the year He lived from the foundation of the city teftatus in Euterpe, True, he says, in pyramide bac years abfumptus, of which finguhefrontes faxió decentifiime- which are combined, none of which is less than feet: but it was exflrutla bec pyramis into the fpecies of degrees, which some Jcalas some 'They call. Diodorus nis inferior to Herodotus, and ipfè oculatus the same inventor, this peace they will bear Oclalms finally King Chem- mis (Herodotus Cbeobus) Memphis an- He reigned over us and built three pyres unmtnum rum midus maxima, interfieptemprtzclariffiu ma works numbered. rìdtc Verfus Libya they are swindling
you have an amazing size they would protect them. The most important of them a tower of ejl sides, each of which from on the rior side it contains an acre of land, in height the extent of which is an acre removes width as it should be, to be brought [little by little in height, it contains j6j cubits. Ex He lay down hard as a stone
difjfìcilique to carry)? i, fedpal eternal life be done Isiamperme for a thousand years, as they say I will give, as the elders say, more than three thousand Zsr four hundred to us Gra remains. Stones will carry them out of Ara- they came by a very long journey. gg- and I was made of rice, and that time prxpert in the earth on every side arenofa
where There are no ramparts or stone walls Lefiigia, as not from cattle, fed by the Gods Let it be seen that such a mass They try Some of the wonders of Egypt are exfiale to be told twice ii The increase of the Nile liquefies, whether he failed in his toil. It's true to whom Tower of Babel Lìb. IL Athanasius Kircher Time infum ptum in from ere- zion zpyra mis. bra my Strata
Chapter to whom abcH à Cero; for in the multitude of bo- the battle is a small one, and the multitude dinner was said it is TSlam cattle, as they say, they are appointed for that work, which They have been gone for almost a year. Then write bit fertile Pyramid from King Cba breo erecìiam ftrucT: urà of the former family, odd in size, as the broad la- only com- those who take it: all the money in the work of the former and herbs, a thousand and six hundred exceflìffe dican there The third pyramid of Myerinus The king erected, led by the anticipated work of death He could not be ashamed, and all the more so the smoke of the architects talent
What unemployment money? often Kings may be admired. rum millium Strabo Diodorus nearly Syn- chronus lib. Forty, he said
a few days from the city (M. Emphi) I will give it is a fiupercilium, in which of the pyramids give a lot Of them three are memorable; two among the world's most famous miracles ranted; the height of the feet, figure square, drinking a little bit of height a jore on each side a bulk exceeding And a little hungry. X) later in a third of the height of the mountain it is, a lot the smaller of the first two still more important fiaftruBa, for from on almost the same basis
and he grinds the middle of the pot with a black stone from which mortars are made, from the ends brought to the mountains of Ethiopia, who with rus fìt y ir operatu difficult, it pays off fumptuofier Rhodopi meretriàs, Jhe Doriche Burial. Pliny then more exactly balancing the appetite, these among other things profertlib xxxv. e. no. Let it be said by the way and the pyramids in the same fiLgypt, I indeed, money is idle and flattery is flowing when it is done, the caufa dplerifque not to spend money on more expensive ones, or on let them prepare for the faithful, or the poor will perish teofia Many things about the bocCanity of those bo- it was bad
The rapidity of several in- there are choatarum. IJna eH in Arfinoite Pliny The name y two in Memphis not far from Setl. lil. Labyrinthboj of which we shall speak. t'idem where was the lake of Moerides, boc efl fojfa large But Egypt among the wonderful me- tells the extreme peaks of the bar to stay, in which they are said to stand out. Which three? bem world fame fillCere, fané confipi- to the giants from all sides, let them join in part of Africa, on the mountain thrice the town of Memphis, jr to be called We said Delta
four mountains from the Nile soldier of Paffus, from Vico ap pofito y quem Bufìrin Vocanty a quofunt af- the fate of burning And a little bit: But the largest pyramid of Arabic stone cattle for years conftruxijfe are produced And below: amplifies Jìma Oclo obtains four acres of leaves tloginta three feet of clay bricks, aU titudo àcacuminepedes This Vilnius however, the authors cited in relation to then they must meet but it is scarce who when on the other in menfura will agree I will obey what I believed to have been done of different nations taru account Hilce Neoterics accept py- you would carry a branch, among whom Peter be Bellonius deserved the first place holds, who gave the works to the pyramids menfùrandas conceived in Egypt but he says the pyramids of True Egypt adeb ureters celebrated in the edition instead they are y which appeared at a distance of miles they begin These Pharaohs of Egypt they want In this way it is even more surprising that Yt- they are given to the near-sighted, as from the au- cloribm deficripta fint: for Yidentur effe mountains of immense size the work of the hands and the ancient works of bil approach to the bar pyramid pain magnificence. But the vofita they are in a warm place at a distance of four miles from Cairo The third stone of the Nile most of the rest had also failed than all the ancient writers afpetlu mi- Tower of BabelLibJI Chapter L rabid indeed, they bring Expirutla it is on the steps of the prominoite flowers and tuiio pyra- papfus in fiwuU ktem he drinks; à beifi ufiuè midùma-
from [the throat the height of five vases rum shoes, nine inches in length
so Vafia is the width of the bac mass, as We have verified and validated the surveyor
imagine the same tall height they hold, adeò utfiruFiura of the whole life of the ba- the fish is fuppofita with the width of the be given Above all, however, most of all exaótiflìmè I find them obfèrvaffe Prince Radzivil in foreign Radzivi tion ix hiftoria fol. Verbaejus MS however much longer, to be brought going out on its summit, and I took the torch in my mind, so as to light up everything emitting air, so strong it to be ejaculated Cant. Very early in the morning, he said, one day before it was not enough, to bafin outside the mass, fed in the bora from the boppition of the egrefi to the city of Vete the number of degrees felled His grunt We have arrived at a quarter of a mile away in the third plane it defines the diameter tent y in which jobomines confisler que left unt. Likewise, the two Pyramids become im- fyramtdes. mm ce size, fedlongè minorespri- ma barum is the smallest of the three, the third of the end the greater part she is, which at the roof Is Rome a mountain? .
In addition, the three but otherwise the minors are twice thence through the sand there are more than a hundred of which he is not the only one so vitiatafpeclatur, to use Romans This is Sellonius. which are generally con- Marcus smiled relationship made? Marcus Grimani Grimanus antiftitis Aquileienfìs, poftea Car- dinal: for me to use antiquities perftudiolus, so ipièmet, while in gypt, for the business of the Venetians carry it, remember it, and con- it pierced, and penetrated to the interior. branches, says he, of the bojus commenfm juftis pajfuum interval
of whom size the ancient modules of three palms other how much is excefi[feputatur Details arata bafs latera paffus about com they are filled, uniVerfiaque pyramids ex come back I live prdeduro he fuses it with a stone, and pracintliones They are stretched out
so with all the work they are covered and spread, like the breath of spring tice each and every one of the most difficult and inconvenient praflent afenfum; Jin- for the guU tripalmarem, and about the femis They drank the height, and certainly not only because of it there were nations of the threatening plain, utfican The Vefiigia of the teeth rest on them comfortably and safely they will eat A and the beak went to the Vertices About and io pracintlions are drunk on the side, going between the branches difficult with two Vero boris ciò Nilo, a fifth mile across We reached the pyramids with nets, of which since many things are betrayed by the authors, when I saw him before I saw him, tabo Let him trust in the tefiimony of all. Mem- phim civitatem propbanls litem celebrated, once we were here, now we are on the other side the little ruins of Verfius to the south his waves are not visible, they are made of sand, everything cooperates, yet the pyramids ad- go away they are made whole, of which two are larger, the third only from the Rhodope it is very elegant, Vix still or cubits high even These three pyramids are completely intact commemorating sr among the wonders of the Two older brothers t? they are incredible in size cubits are said to be drooling Intrinfecus has artificers very wide degrees, by which water and extrinsic to ipfia is affected by any kind of smoke; with two major chambers, one of them the other one they contained pti; in the lower there is also ho- the great pillar of fate, in which the body something was refueled. Toss from bus quantofumptiij quoVemodo Or artificioy Isrnum ìJudaeis in gyptiacaferVitute confiitus, (epuod be done to all authors please) the amount of pyramids ba have been raised ta, Velnum the same Hebrxi ramparts become y to whom the Nile is brought down (they appear from not by nature, but by art, all things are made) have finished, I leave the bifioric'is to be judged.
That Athanasius Kircher Chapter llud to be greatly surprised, cimi break the pyramids on the fuhlim mountain, who to trust from VtVofaxo, fint ereSla, when and yet è iapidus is generally collected, ap- it is not made of the same rock, but of stone dressed up, nor could I be easily carried whence or for what reason did the Iapids congregate so much ries could have behaved with him, since even the Nile overflowing with tribes of thousands surprised by these things, removed from the device, he proceeds, but thin another penetralipotefi, with each stone three I will how of the former, easily Se'Sì-Ut
he will grow fat The third pyramid to fertile side of Spring I was a citizen efl Rhodopes of that cujwdljviptw. . I already remember, the whole was brought out of stone, as not able to be finished, manufactured, from which to Verfus also shot with a bow civita theme y head off neck tsr brecci projecting the height of the harlot dine, a wonderful habit y from one ViVoquefax exfculptum Some people want that from her Rhodes elbows long tsr side
the height of the great pyramid of Verus piasi how much we are burdened, by foot with which one is made femis, with what labor pray An underground cave in a rocky cliff Ctium
which we saw covered with stones, narrow He could have been placed in a smokeless state. The greatest! A secret access to the head was open to him, and all the stone pyrams ejufmodifed Siis y squares i? i formed a mountain with to be to mold some art I do I was made
although quadrangular large figure, from the bottom part man he wakes up
however stones if what wires so uneven in order composed by art wonderful They are seen
as the whole mass of the mountain He reprehends the species formed by nature. fcenfus because of the heavy craftiness of the Iapis and fccurus yet efl, though pajfu fitting ufus fueriniy Yix, however inside the pyramid the fumity of afcendi, where the plain ifl qua- wires, a space of ten cubits in betpart compleSìens Seawda The second pyramids paulb the former minor fyramtdU
defined I gave him the gem Jagitta -jacìum from my dijtaty unprepared interior Unani no it is clear
which, however, is hidden they want extend to the middle of each potefl to that con- to be done in the same manner as before tlla y the snow that paulb plainer smaller fint From the middle Verily, the stones, so flattened, affect the thief give
that especially the conflict appears then Vero the third part of the same pyramid
and every smoke what kind of stones do you drink? regardless of placed in disorder
as in Peter a indeoracula issued Gentiles that mouth of the head should be brought forward. Ha- ttenus adivilius, who indeed came He wrote down exactly everything, so that nothing was the same it may be added, or put down. between foreigners the same pyramids wonderful wear tear with curiosity in the year
he fought illufìrirlìrnus man Ve- trus à Valle, everything fungula exami- vg swimming, with to the authors rando
accurately minutely he lived, from whom he spoke (for it was, while in the living effet, among the few friends la- (don't pretend) I received, where? desire I was on a journey, that this year came out first, all exacliùs de- it is written The Arabs gradually fell into the same option they differ But not anything let us see these things in between, which Ipeclant to the pyramids
here I will bring the rum relations. And so they written down Jofepb 'Ben Altipbafi in the book of the two Horites of Egypt, to whom they confuse those who Ben Salamas in the book, which Hortus Mi- Rabilius of the delivers Vwamides that are in rope Arab
qu efl Melrs antiqua ad occ'u tt0' dental part of the Nile. It is said that she lower part in such a way that you will hit the snow with that bundle Shahaluak will be built flat rum, which is a few cubits away Hi Schariak before the flood
it is said lift up would prevent it from being finished his jum quodHcvmQSCrìfmcgiiiusobfapientiam Juaniy Tower of Babel L b. IL
cab I. [uhm, who is drunkenly called Enoch, ts it is Adris, peace be upon him, when he was born burn the flood, fill it up, and repose it. all things were good in her, books And henceforth more fufi than Seti. They it was fair to give the demonftrates a wonderful fig the genius of the architect, then in to be adorned with a wonderful structure, then in whatever he was drinking pretwfi with the stones and cast them those places pyramids square r polite figure, be! moving For the end of the machines, fpetles perpendicular cleVation
each one side cubits. But he cio by tgeniofis arcbitetlis firutla, as In it he becomes subject to alteration, for Thirty trembling rushes, five earthquakes shake nothing is taken away from it how Clay rocks
from which you are confident goddess conftruotis can't be done grind And to whom tra&oris machines we will think of his life, in the stones from There is such a gap between the mountains of Arabia you are in need, through so impassable and hindered you- nera in place (latutus bringing Who is the current architect of nKep?
five Ungfr cubits two high. How long does the mind work? For the stone It is said that the gates of the secret canals are hidden subterranean, [throat canals cubic meters long they have a bed and doors of stone, and the eastern canal reflects the south, ca- on the western side of the west, through the clay the entrance is open to the houses the mouse is the star of the planets names infì- gnitafunt, intrenchus adinVicem difpofita omms. In clay houses an idol of gold one of whose hands he holds to his mouth tylibrum in front. If someone approaches He is afraid to him, he opens his mouth
is indented in A key chain was tied to his mouth. Torrò py- in the eastern branches, there is a fepultm in it Sehurid
The western pyramid, in it fepultm his brother is Hughith. Vyramis Elma Aphrus the son of Hu- Gith. Reciting the Sabbath in one of the bars I was born Agathemon, who is Seth
on the other Hermes, Elmalum, Szab was the son of Hermes. Hxc ex Rabia- neither from the profane nor from the scribes it is crushed, so also it is ascribing them to the fabulous narratives I will give I swear See what's going on here Tom did more. oedipus His shrill bus, of which they were cast, is believed to be of length xo
father, as the end of any division of the stone m? it was he would complete this whole day; in feet in circumference they occupy almost only then the length of the agonal fora I {onue, ut hence the device hxc all fumptuo- the fabric of the Omanis to use mx, amphitheatre, multipara iàngis fîve size, five expen- the exorbitantness of the lighthouse, five fine you have greatness and talent, lù- perished While I am writing this, Titus Livius tinws
who gave the work in Egypt has progressed, so that many ancient monuments would inquire more diligently, linearet, fic for hunger would trust me, among many other things, hu- a bravado relation, of which we have no use also the drawing of the right pyramid transiìnifit, together with the conveyance in which re- he perishes, and the crypts of the earth, in which access to the mummies is open, ichnogra- pia, which here together with the letters to me I decided to add the data. ca- Chapter IL
Athanasius Kircher CHAPTER Telubrum from a single stone conJlruBum. Settm. Among the foreign countries of Egypt randa, joined by the King of Amafi, and this is because I am deceiving something from the whole and leafy iàxo of three years rum fpatio, with the help of two thousand ho- minum, from the city of Elepbantina Sau. 0 die- he brought the rum on his journey, of which Herodotus in Euterpe about fi- even Adbiecuodnon minimifed the most it is a wonderful place. He brought the shed to the house a parcel from the city of Elephantine, in which he will bring for three years two soldiers of of men who were all young swimmers And his house was outside the temple it is cubits long
width height. This is the outer dimension of
a mouse from one stone; and the interior of it I giggled it is iÌ ulnares feu cubit.
height The House of the True Temple it was very magnificent, Minerva's tomb, into which Sai extrude rat, admiring the work of Amafis, the buildings are made of stone and marble Andro-Sphyn- the gum and inhumanity at length fupering, where among others There seemed to be three coloffi, of whom one foot in the middle, the other two on either side of him fìipantesfingulì feet. But how to Ve- a monolithic building pertraxijfent, arcbitetlum, tefie Herodo- tOjfufpiraffe go, Or a long ufum, Velutajmtproptervwtem uniuse government TOWER OF BABEL II.
I want to conceive. This was the mo-SeSìUl. read ipation that day brought with difficulty at the time of three years, to use the gift it is As much as fine menfì- bus, days, machines have been promoted amount to calculate arithmetically on the left CapMl. in what way the work is done to promote, ibid. And here it is to be admired that device from the whole
to the rock, or to the mountain, than to whom machines Ipatio days ìSai difrìto have been able to promote, it is scarce who Length. He lies down. li. leu foot Length. lie down 3. feuped. 6' Totius Syrmnetrite Computm. External
Interior Width Height Length. Width lie down
leuped. leu foot feuped. 30 leu foot The difference between the interior and the exterior. Width cub. leu ped. Height lie down
leu foot i. Height cub. leu ped. Where? difference crumpled crallì- tie of the walls And from this menlùr easily curiofùs Le&or will remove the weight of the whole. CHAPTER III. Labyrinthbi in Egypt a prodigious device. of the Egyptian Labyrinth fcribunt vetuftillimi AucWes, 'HerodotMj Dwdorus, Stràbo, wants these Vlinius, all human fi- they seem to be making use of it. Herodotus to his first glimpse of infinite wonder tion fixed fuilTe de le teftatur god ardor to all the works of men you will never be married, you will excel and the lentiluc fuilfe Icribit. Vilnius power the greatest work of human ingenuity cat. The size of the work, pollution tìmbi from magnificence to various things is variously explained, great nor should it seem surprising to anyone when he entered the Labyrinth
that is the most important thing, which maxi- would draw me into wonder, re- He thought it was worth it, hence while the new Lemper more wonderful met lu- ftranda, easily thence Ipe&an- from countless souls, using Explain la diftin&è oblèrvare rion potueruntj so confused and indiftin they were bound to the future. Certainly 2Xe- dalum of this fabricx ca- ptum, then the occalion combed another To build a labyrinth in Lemnos
nous afTerit; one hundredth then a part of it was imitated, while ftruchira from the inextricable fabric even in the place where he excelled with his wit, ex- he could not fold. Site eftLaby- Za6rM rinthus to Lake Moeridis verlus dilopolis, tefte Herodotus Vlinius, which And they want the liver of Maridis the elf. Di- it was seen for the first time in twelve juxtapositions Herodotus, and in Ledecim near Vlinium residences, sotvidelicet halls lèupo- his ample receptacles, vaftiflìmaqué buildings, as many as those of Egypt in the Prefectures, which they call Nomos was divided And they were, tefte Stra- ok, lingula? aulNomorumcolum- you Athanasius III. nis surrounded? , each other, continuous? , road? ve- where? they tend to them from the opposite side the walls which surround the halls in order of appetites. But before the gate of the Crypt? are there many and long? , where? between ih tan-, such and such wonderful tortuous ways they keep the folds, so that no one may enter the hall any poflìt; nor go out at the end of the guide, in- explainable, of course, by the error of his ways deceived webscript are n 'Íc cenacula attiffima, por- dining room
smile rum, port, and ticulque nineages steps language and himself. cx ftruc-fci? columns of porphyrite la- supported by those who are among the gods Lachra, the King of kings? fiimma mon- You will gather a lot of pictures. Qua- but the whole of the houses is like this, from in- genius architect's invention difpofitia, as soon as in the forest when they were opened, a terrible sound was heard can be seen Is it really worth it? to all with astonishment eli: , that the fin- throat plates leu teda, uti cry- the widths of the birds from the whole
tefte Strabo, with stones of great size the fus of the inflaming fint was built, with no pro- was he neither one's material nor another's? in- terventu In other words, the whole device? from I will hold three thousand houses They refer to what? or huge he was able to irrigate that city. But au- let's give the fìngula exaàè carrying him off fua Euterpe Herodotus The words the right
La Twelve rulers in Egypt Byrimìn Kings, it is acceptable to them some re- left common to all chin, and from that they made the request A bit of a labyrinth fìipra Mozrìdu fta- What is the most important city of Verfù? di- Citur Crocodiloruniy which I caught fa- ma major
tametfi for Epbefi tem- it is worth mentioning, he in Sa- mo, yet the Pyramids were narrative
Klrcheri nor the elders, whose children? to many Section to be equipped with the great works of Greece III. lint But those too Labyrinth an-" tecellit Indeed, twelve, each of whom-" la? is the font covered with teóto? , portisoppofitis" altrinfecus, fex to the north conti-" gua? , as many to the Auftrumvergentes close with the same tall wall? Bifa-" rias found their homes in it, one fubterra-" no, the other is worse than them, and draw three thousand and fifty, which-" which rum? fuperiora lunt, ipfividi-" a mouse, and where? we touched, we told
ptios, they did not want her to fight, what they would say over there They were the authors of the Labyrinth, then" of the crocodilians j so from below-" We have touched the greater works of man. and re-arriving through the halls, as if they were diver-" fiflìmi, so af-" they were doing I moved from the hall to the rooms-" there, from rooms to rooms, è cu-" halls other times. The hour of the ceiling of all, just as the walls are made of stone it is
decorated with fculptile figures then, what? hall? for the most part" built of white stone, the pillars are-" redeemed by bit? , the angle at which La-" byrinthus, clinging to the four pyramids fculpted amalia, to which journey becomes This is the description of Herodotus curious about the inventor of all things admirer offered
whose bring having made a choice gladly here of the whole device? a kind of rough fâltem fîr operational ichnography in Oedipus of the Jabrics JEgypt. I would show be through time will permit, that the reader may read to collect one, the architect of such works it's going to pop off. But at this opportune moment, how much
TOWER Cap. lll- then ex an&oribus cited conjectures we were able to reach the obfuscations, hundreds In this way fubfcri- bit Strabo lib. of Egyptian affairs with the following words. To this is Laby- rinthi fabriea, the work is not unusual pyra- w midibus adjacent to the King (èpultura w right that destroyed the Labyrinth, lo- j: ) But who in the first foffa? grow up n or ftaaia, he met as he proceeded the plains some lub meniàli form having a village, and many Kings royal, how many before the Prefecture? , whom They call them tZomos, were For as many w aulx they surrounded each other with lighted columns w continued? all in one order, &uno wall as a small wall before faith halls they have faith. The way? indeed where? tendex adverib limt better than the wall, before the vault? who- then many? , which one? between winding roads they have, that no stranger may enter B A B E L L B. IL
more severe, here also his deprecation of Seft. lU, from the ipfis Hccatcà oculati teftis at Dio- let's put it in words, however- go I think the Labyrinth Simcn- push the maufbleum one fuilTe, Labyrin- tho added Sepulchres also, says Diodorus, not at all watery a. pojkns pojfent, fuiffea- join (ftjferunt facerdotes yfepulcbra re- gia they had only drunk in their li- to be contained in briefs, and their many at what time we went to those places, they were abfumpta, Olympiad Nonfo- In truth by the Egyptians who had done this they are handed over to Gì'xci several times, and twice Hecata? us, who, in the time of Ptolemy? in fact, Thebes of prophecy, the lower Egypt fcripferunt for Oegwnjepulcbrio y in which tra- It is given to Jovis's skin, ecs conditasfuijje, reticent, y poflìt any hall, nor to go out at the end of the du-fingula; the tomb of the king, who, ce, worthy of admiration, that one he is a liar, he tells the fuijfe of the
the floors of each house and also the ciy- centum, in the entrance of which was the gate of Varios stone the widths of the stone slabs I conBru&a, w bujus the length of two whole, and the size of the unfilled ex-jugs, the height of cubits makeup? by no means whatsoever, neither wood nor ah Pofk banc ingredients were present someone else's stuff? inattentive But you do the square periphthalic god, whose image floor will touch he will see the stone the four acres on the sides would be completed
the great field god In it, on the other side of the pillars, the pillars were fastened and then he will fall again into the halls with one stone cubits will be made to the ancient in order of the pillars and columns from (Olito hand crafted leaning on a stone; the walls too "The whole body is the furrier tetli confetla Ma 'illtu"
not smaller stones from the stones of the width of two pages, rum. the poets at the end a? dificio that more He is busy with the day, what kind of animal is it?
Variifque ftellU decorated with blue. From bac then there was another approach, (sr. in that gate I will give
pyramids square whose f the former fimilU, fed fculptura uberiori. each side about an acre height j ingreffu the threespofiu's breaths were huge do par fépultura? , the name is Imendas, stone the work of Memnon, one bar. or Simendes, say so many halls there how many were Pra? fecì: ura? five beat his elbows, In the name of the Egyptians, to whom the caufa had confided in him; dude goes beyond that talk about important things j again the other a. on the right the other end they really loved it. Yes, Strabo. Because, however, from [y? rw, the sr to the mother, the minor. This Hecatcei in the relation of Fabriea na? c Ifmendis [the work is not comparable in size
Labyrinth at least, fîve magnifken- by wonderful art, the stones ex- then, five vaftitatem fpeótes, it is in- he was silent, when in so great a mass he could not Athanasius Chapter IH any thing
nor does it affect the stain. Write he was in the co. King of kings of Ofymandias be where-' I have been, and where I lie, no one has lit, some of my works will perish Efie also and another son-in-law of the mother runt} with a single stone, cubits, having the head of the queen was three, with which they would offend, daughter and wife zy mother %egis fuif- faith I opened the door of the bank and another thing happened flylion more noble, fculpturis Va- na' riis, in that the war was against Ba&ria- praiium we, who had fallen from him, was it that I was four hundred thousand speedy, Zoroa- even thousand into four parts miffum e? Yifo to the army, all of whom had sons
gum gefiffe control. A great part of the wall the surrender of the city it contained the fault on that side, which flow The walls of Yius alluded. %ege then cumbofte join the lion together with him in the terrible battle bat See fol. inferred. Se- when the walls were built up, the prisoners were taken away was known I was them from my heart Yiles
pore imbeciles The third side of the body With various fine and beautiful decorations, triumpbofque contained oxen. In the middle of the perifilium was the fubdial altar expuh with the most brilliant stone, and excellent work, ir ma- surprising size. And in the last parie- two giants were flirting from a single pide cubits, to three experifiylio the entrance was open. was near the domme lumnis fufpenja, whose side is also two gera, idefi, dfiopedes embraced, in those woodwind baudparVo number, rent those who bring injudiciousness. Vati ay um parte wall fcu lpti number bterogly
fhicisftn- rant, in the medieval prtneeps, whose a col- fuffpenfa Truth would hang, dr eyes ef- fet fubclaufis
pile of books I R C H E R generafuìngufilipraparata Sculpted de- thence the more eminent cateri exVarus gold and silver race metals annually take b at DEO offering with registration
Mina three million y two hundred miU A thousand Next followed the Lacre Library with registration Mind Medicine. They were the next of all the gods of Egypt of all to whom they belonged to GOD. Put 'Bibliotbe- magints. cam the house was built excellent y in which ef fent Thursday of St. Juno letliflernia you did infuper futua? where tf{egis corpusfepul- then he lay down. He was surrounded by many my babitacula, in which the pitias were all the living creatures of Egypt pta He was surrounded by a golden monument feet of one cubit by which they were registered by means of clay elbows day of the year and the rise and fall of others, and what is that fruitful jfcgyptios aflrologos they would make an offer. circle him at that time Cambyfès and Perfas run they ruled over the Egyptians, he was taken away. This do not forget the monument of the fimandri for all fumptuojìus, fed artificio excel it was slower. Haden Hecateus at Diodes In this information prodigious work Examination device, three most surprising ài-fa"m gna meet The first is the so many things from a single stone ftruétarum, whose fingulx is feet they had height. He exceeded these with many paralanges in fertile periphtylii approach from the middle of three, of which the foot the game was almost equal to their height, which stood in place of the columns, so that perhaps feet, or a cubit thick laughing Here are the pictures that I liked! length Since so a foot long ces should be intact, sr the vial of Truth to paint Then it was a walk home bw full, ineifque diVerfa epularumge- it becomes double the height of the whole body weight
she was a little girl heir he is tired (for he was wearing a suit almost Tower of Babel Lib. IL
effor-SV&iiL dim indeed Solis Coloflus is equivalent. you are eating; the amount of gold in one or lett. j twice cleft's device, no less in- They had eight feet of genius, than the happiness of riches the length, which: tamctfi the former ma- j shown Qua: lane works fi Paulò. ww they would give way, but still I will trust more carefully, aufimiàn&èafrìr-JStfp- the sea, here are men of a fumy disposition 'I don't using nothing of human skill la- Circuits golden stone at length they were crazy Second square a building supported by columns hum, whose sides are long j protects, thus also with their human help feet, with columns made of whole stone work, the greater preftitifTe, with or in a single device for shaping all skills iciencies, Mathematical Self let me see the conipirafTe. For who Today, what do you want to do? deat, the whole nature of the snow: confident, snow all Arithmetic: , Geometry: , Opti- ci, Aeronomy: , Mechanics: , Statics: , and other related arts rites to a miracle? No one ttatnze. no. supported by those on the upper roof dem they answered the great tudinis futata: wooden: Thirdly it was the golden circle that surrounded Simen the height of the monument, cubits, who the days of the whole year, and the rising of others, and occafùs, and the eleotions of the aftrologists, It contained obfervationef
were that is the step of one cubit, that is, feet, both in length and width and marvel at the structure of the whole arch: ra- strength, use craft, its diameter: tion first from the Egyptians to the Greeks, from mathematical reasoning three cubits, it was feet from the size of the place it occupies bat
it can be collected by fate. In addition it was golden, as Viodorw remembers, and not of gilded brass, the whole mass of the circle that is three million ta fifty thousands of pounds was hanging, with the elbow devolved from these to the Omanis, into this the day may still be protected Exifestimation even I will say nothing here about the lake of Mozrid, who, J"d tefte Herodotus has more admiration, deferiptb. where everything has been told here and there ra. He has it's all around three thousand fèscente days
we deepened it is fathoms, human clothing ad ri five golden cubes, which are feet waters The Nile flowing and receiving so wide, when in high conti- you give, then the same to the third neat, pounds to hang. These things j ram excavated to irrigate. Of his mi- See Herodotus quoted in take the clay that is exa&iiTìmèdecribent can scarcely be conceived in the mind. CONSEQUENCES From here gather leótor curiofè, archi- Geometry of roofs fummam: then in drawing and painting with clay, as well in the clay device: the members properly difpo- without skill and skill
fcul- prodigious gifts of genius, in with so many huge statues and columns from a single human stone heart ISIon remember Tbebane of my city rascal, which: according to Strabo, Diodorus, and Herodotus was quoted a little before
given to the prophet, such a font, that nothing to the au&oris teftis in the you love things greater and more excellent to be done polfis And this is the source of the Archi- tectonics of Egypt we see
Athanasius Kircher CHAPTER EXACT DESCRIPTION S I V E ICHNOGRAPHY Labyrinth of the Egyptians the power of the upper body, which is possessed by Heri You need Chami of Egypt with a wonderful work at Lake Moerides extruxerunL Settlll. "You're alive I died then in Babylon. Greece, both %om and elsewhere 'pixxugiofefabricae, which pro- from the audience the rakes of the world have been counted, re- they are censured, of which in the foregoing it is long
led which of the Egyptians in and erecting wonderful fabrics I do not find that they have lost their power. And such it was Labyrinth device which near the Lake Macerides
Cbami descendants He wants to inherit pyramid while, together with the most powerful Simandis King's maufoleum, he founded, whose lemcum in Herodotus, Tiodorus y Hecaius, Strabo, Tlimimi) legif problem, in admiration of so many works stunning, great for a long time ichnographic drawing as well the massive collision of the fabric ex- he was angry with his heart derium; which I use in Oedipus Egyptian fabrics it could not be done, so adjourned to this place at the proper time cenfui The architect, as the predecessor of all the monuments of many ages as they say, the new fenders would excel and I will not fabricate an unheard of invention, led which even the whole city was wasted to express, he is seized to store; in which I do not know or rather wonderful diipofition, or architect he was gifted with human talent I will make But to explain them more clearly nartur curiofb to the victim, the fabric from I begin with an egg, as it is often said. It was, as in this ancient Ichnogra- It is clear that the whole work is in the frame ex- push
tefte HecaUo, and next to the four parts of the world He was surrounded by a flower, which instead of co- lumnarurn, as Hecateus narrates, they ban the animals and the idols of the Gods of the gypsies
from one stone rum in length to the ancient form! made, and made one cubit three cubits j demuS; , the height of the fingals! spans, and one periftylium easily with the mustache and peridromes palms so that through this funny walks you were balusters intruda, fpedari it will pop of the whole movement the issue will accumulate. side periphtylii, tefte Strabo, ad
fat Tlinius He extended the river to a thousand feet of Ipatius; But HecaUus ten ftadiorum to- It refers to the environment of yours, so that beyond pieces, whom he loved cat delivers
Vlìnius joins inlùper lost Whatever it happens, we are sure Menfùra one side of this kind Roman menfura, Ipatius that it is at the Ponte Sandi Angeli here %omzy both to St. Peter and beyond I did not go out cemffe, faltem adxquaffe, discover the mouse, which was brought into the square, in- make a nation a city
clearly It is clear that Tlinius had three thousand he mentions the houses comprehensively. By dida these things periftylia around
and which were the approaches to the labyrinth, whom Strabo in Nomos, leu Prefe- óturas, William's Herodotus in screen i. vjtihHiH sxra BaBGG8SG@BBSaSS
Towers of Babel II.
Cab. IV I wanted some halls without end myfte- they were in the river of the gods. We made Hcrodotus skin, divide him into nparts, according to the principle We have divided the division, in that order, as língule, each part size such as, but next to the myths which: in Nomis to the gods of Egypt impressed perform great and secret ceremonies they were held because of the secret of the Houses The construction of the stakes is di- the worst: with the immenià of this La- byrinthi ftructure does not express anything else ret, how many of the Gods are immortal thieves fíios together with dung lens: cffetque this fabricaquafi epito- some me, summary more of the temple, which the whole of Egypt the worship of the Egyptians eff they believed
we brought down the fuse, and here in the exofita you see nography. Therefore, through periphthalmia in all Nomos
approach it is clear of whom it is the Name You offer the name not to be impressed. Saiticus III. Cy- Neapolitan IV. Crocodilopolita nut V. Bubafticus Vl-Theoaicus. VII. Heliopolitanus Cheap Hermon tic Memphite X. Attributes because XI. Canopic. XILHeracleo Polish And to this end they were a built by kings, that each one pre- Nomos would express the cypresses of Egypt whom Herodotus calls the halls which cities, or proper names, in which bus fefè facerdotes, ad de rebus, ad the worship of the gods; and in them by appro- to perform private ceremonies per- holding, then to Egypt by nu- a little the guardian was attracted magic when, to confer, they conferred. And first of all the reader notes, No- I will make them, one of the first gods whom they venerated with great worship, con- the fattened ones; in the center of the hall mici, then the same fimulacra, then bathed in a rich monument tifIìmo, as if in some sort of treasure chest, along with the bodies of the bai (I love spicy, refofita fuifle, to which by adeò tor- tuolàs friendship is now intricately the dwellings of these houses for so many oc- access was given to the worshipers of the meanders, as those who would trust the safe, from so many tan- and by the way, innumerable bilious gates and the hall minibuses, nor from tortuous walk by the way of neutrals, , tette He- they were not at all able to extricate the rhodotus. While for from chamber to chamber, from xy- ftis into the wide halls, from these in, from fans in colymbethras
from these finally in no- you are welcomed by huge halls, from going, while rowing at the end of the decade tarent, of course, so much for older they would find them enveloped in dew, how much more proceffifTent; nor does anyone think
I will leave these names the local government, as in the preceding we have spoken of the periftylium, fèd lingula A quarter of a thousand to occupy a part of the river, to use from Pliny HecaUo we collect, and therefore not each of the palaces was enlarged, fed no express a small part of the town they will hit Wherefore with all the pre- thrice the central Labyrinth of this the way the town continued, the reader colli- get, such as it should have been the names of deer you will gather
And just as through multiple paths, wander from Nome to Nome, At the end of the obstacle, access was given, so also through the periftylia of the snow by four the gates, nor the exit, nor the approach was surrendered, so that the foreign end was the leader I grew accustomed to the roads, I wandered perpetually the end of the bounds of error will never repeat they would laugh; those who are in the middle, the central feu The interior of the labyrinth, in which the ceu- tro some twelve monuments Kings artificially constructed together with the- Athanasius Kircher Chapter YV they were put up as thieves; sure, tan- to him a more complicated approach was given, how much greater thefauri are in it they were not But do not give him money from outsiders, gold spurs to discover the thieves Seciiill He would arouse those who foresaw the fepulchra to use Cimeliarcia inextricable viamm
twist and turn I approached them at the reception fíve from the natives of the hunger for gold infected! through multiple labyrinths were to be found, they would certainly be unaccountable it was for him! they, so that no one can con- an inextricable road to them, so that! to expediency the rum entering at the end of the guide and away from any J will never be able to do it. And therefore He ipe exit, to death sooner than in the thieves would fall. Because it is true neither the form nor the figure of this la- byrinthi to the auditors will be written we of molds diopofition, no what it really was, fed what kind of effect protects, or should have, to an unheard of brix monftruofitatem oftende, with him, whom you see in the fchematifmo, everything but from Vlini
Herodotus, Hecaeus, According to Strabo's report, and in their minds of all who wrote about Egyptian affairs they bring extradas here mouse Well, because I see, the striker in He would have to live with many, and so barbarous with a magnificent intent fivefu would not trust us. Certainly, when then it was allowed to collect from the auditors, their end was, as few We allude to the fact that the re- gum, as if in the most magnificent, and compendiofo the whole temple of S&gypt
that to the definite metemphychofeos fate, uncorrupted, and without reference vary; of which Metempfychofi qui- dem
five revolution souls which is characteristic of the Egyptians ma, aquibus Tytbagoras deluded becomes
we did it in a fuse III. I take Oedipus Syntavmate of Mumps; in ièparato pere, whose title: Spbynx myftagoga; five Diatribe de Mumiis bieroglypbicatis. Because he was favored by the Egyptian kings, treasures of gold, silver, and jewels, and whatever finally has a price odoto there was nothing, within which no ray of the Sun it will be able to fall, the leaves will be lit with torches to be penetrated by the leaders of the roads: I did it it matters
There are two houses in it, one subterranean, and the other, more superficial, is buried each three thousand and fifty houses We have seen that those of which are more futile We received the hearing of the Jubterranea lerò. Dwarves who Labyrintbo prepojtti jÌLgyptii, nole- they ban them to monitor in any way what to say rent there the fepulcbra effe, then their gum
who were to build the Labyrinth the speakers, then of the workers of crocodiles No one will think, therefore, that the earthling lum was inhabited by the Labyrinth
fed to the priests from there, to the gods crificios, and various ceremonies in fefto- rum felmnitatibus, as if in adytis fa cris propitiating, confide him to go as we said a little before. As it is true iftifufmodi ftrudura would last externally, in it nothing of wood, lime, earth that heaps of portions, fed immens fà valtillimos lapidum, marmomm- that he gathered
proportionately, however phymmetrià, not having many roads with the tortuosity of the tip, it was a collision. faith for they know that everything is still difficult ma marbles of time fucceflu, cor- open to destruction
use in Obelifco Tam- I made a lot of property, which ob- We have said that they were exterminating life. you have here ichno- a few graphs for the dignity of the matter ex- appetite He does not deny anything further
snow as let's break it down bant, go in together with the dung that has been consecrated to the gods j some nihil de fuprapofita Labyrimhi fa to lay down graves; because they were afraid there, don't waste time, thieves people are hungry for hidden information TOWER Cap. Vf.
Superior Labyrinth. About this Labyrinth Herodotus you Thus we learn from the lower docile, fu- worse we caught the monster works greater Sla? n anfratlus feu egrejfus per attic sr regrejfus through the halls, as they were di- Verfifilmi, so also infinite meadmira- they were affected by the: from the hall into the tannery from the chambers into the chambers, and cubes in other threads, è conclaYibus in the halls otherwise,
This registration is completely fimi- let it flow, as if it were the foundation of the mind was crushed, the lower ichno- graph? brought to us? , that is to say the lower architecture, which? hold she lay wrapped up great-grandmother they would kill For it was thus superior, as inferior in i z Nomos distributed, for both Herod three thousand houses Faith tells Ichnography therefore ffram so we difpofùimus
like what? below
teda effent rent Synopsis of the contents of the Labyrinth tarum The whole Labyrinth around it was built in the form of a square
near the corners of the world dilpofìta, to use in schematically shows the side ABCD, E F G H j side opposite; then two sides equally opposite, which? because not express by optical projection li- cuit rem H I, F G we exhibited. Since for ichnographics Labyrinth to expose the poor it happened P and all refpuate optical projection, such as they do not know the optical as long as it was permitted, we just showed it. Twelve Names diphtrite with which the Labyrinth nies you were ex- preffes together with a genius figure? fìmu Babel L b. IL lake in the middle of the name, he saw-. SVt7. llL let's talk about something else
to whom the name was made It was, indeed, all the labyrinths? They were whispering to each other, whom we did not know indeed, the drawing which once they grind, fed in that way, where really should they could, or could, we exhibited, so however, as much from the auditors it was allowed to bind, in a mystical form to each Appropriate to the gods hang out rent where a note, this note O or to signify the gates, from which on every side it was given to the poor
ekreffuque ad in you count other doors and halls; ipfa? ve- ro line? , the walls: this, indeed, is the figure fìnificat fcalas fèu cochlides, from qui- the bus was lit from below in the fupe the lower Labyrinth was open to the light suffocated But the middle of the Labyrinth
in which the bodies of the Kings I was prepared together with their thieves defeated they were
other than that of the workers exhibits the monuments of crocodiles, which moves us as if unaccomplished give us a verifiable plot we were But the peripthylia ABCD fupe rior Labyrinth, in in which place the mass of the columns is supported the hundred gods of Egypt you
fingulaz with habit to each suitable, immodicx size fpe- were given, also clays, and others palm trees height I'm sorry content give; and there were in the whole area, according to those manfiones of the gods, which in cce- The left were joining the group, as from Oedipus fruitful volume on the astrology of the Egyptians it is clear Finally, to what end? so great, so invifù, so admi- a laborious work, to which neither the former nor the bus, nor more desirable starches, any human power could create so many and built with immense shafts does it run? I refpond, that Vlinius fen- fìt, otiofàm fuiffe fùperborum we were Athanasius Kircher Chapter IV. and their kings bar a lot of idleness the name of the ascetic to meet a certain celebrity, or who than the lustful le of the works of the size, and depending on the movement books exploiting pradumere pofTet, Sect-llh or the daughters of the cam attempt, led not even to think dare Nothing, therefore, is refutable pfam labyrinthine the fabric jammed Let us explain this in more detail. CHAPTER at the time
by which so much works conHruBa they were Chapter V No matter what Babylonians W monuments à Nembrod, Ni- no Semiramide extrudes a few We delivered it before, within a year I see it happened, and every year luvius perada fuilTe, from chrono- logic nofta board clearly con- it stinks It is also made from flour added pushed tested, in Turr'u faorica, to- both the human race together and in Ba- of Bylon in the region of Sennaar, then in the vi- ashes in the regions of MefopotamU and AJphyria collated fuiflè He can drink a cup of tea indeed, which one? in after the flood con- it touches, then the first into different parts of the world different parts of the human race if you But because Chamo was probably from Egypt had reached the university with his son's family and Mifraim, Tbutb, innumerable rable offspring of children aftbciata in the poor country of Egypt ceflìt, where the earth of all things af- finding that he was gifted with lightness, from a which Nilotica? fertile nature pro- with pleasure, soon upon a great multitude of men multitude grow out
they trusted, while they remembered the wonderful things works à Nembrod, Nino, and cognates of the executioners in Babylon, ipfì multi- armed with the strength of men, to imitate those of their vagaries, which first, the pyramids they set up their fathers, to imitate nor Semiramide, who married Nino to her husband, and that of Father Nembrod fìve 'Belo, in Aphyria near the city of Ninivcm as soon as we cut down the ivy, pro- god height, along with obeli- fco of all of them
where? of men clothes are never worn, most of all He had settled in Babylon. What? but through the pyramid, obelilcorum- they will consider the mystical figures, fulè in Obeltco Vamphilio Oedipus mouse Lived then in a man of great talent from Canaan peprognatus, &admirable tumna- tural, as well as human divine branch of things invetgator, whom JEgyptii Scotii, the Arabs of Adris, Greek to say Here to the immortality of the name dam aipirans, who is the myth of the divinity from Senius still living from Chamos, ex whose family he was, he had heard vum unheard of kind literature than hieroglyphics to desire say run
bundles in the form of eternal heirs Are you going to be blamed for it? therefore co- Lumnae Hermetis à pofteris dida? fue run For as I returned to Jamblichus: Py tha- goras, Plato sr. Eudoxus omnifcien- then from columnk Wednesday they learned: fed because all these things in obelisk how Tower of Babel LlB. II.
Chapter V. how far advanced we have been, that we leave the reader. This pa&opo- the likeness of the Fathers They seemed to be meditating on nothing else as each inviful manufacturer mind, the eternal glory of the name pud pofteros is done. And these things indeed, all of the kings of Egypt years before the rise of Moses the gelt we will open noftrls Hieroglyphics We have demonstrated a long time. What ve- All these things were brought forth from the King bus of Egypt, to the grandsons of Cham, Chus, Mifraim Se Hermete Cbananceo, mon- Simendi's fépultura, where I remember unheard of victory, against Ba- Zoroaftrein, king of the Elnans, obtained rat ÌSlinuó, the whole hìftoria in Aulis huge magnificence built mar- He took care of his unblemished morals. He was in At Abylon there was also a huge palace of nor, within whose arms said Nini when the lion, Semiramis himself with the tiger competitor's bra, t7jji. ab he geftarum-rerum lerics inlcpta was made, and called the King Smendius also conilru the palace that's where it started. So all the pyramids obelifos, labyrinths ftru&u- ras, along with the arcane hieroglyphics disorder registration before Mofis or then I have already confirmed you, mentioned a little before books
various authorities porridge the injured party will find evidence. Nothing therefore, in the first days, the deluge may come to Mofeh about years, to great and the arduous ascension lùperfui is given, the true faith of the snow. Rely on the goddesses of the cult of Gion and the water used by Cbami, a Indeed, GOD declined the curse, so also the window to all fuperfti opening the, . not modcr, led univedàm terram
five with a ridiculous trick and among the multitude of men rietatereplevitr G A P UT
artisans machines in the Labyrinth to those I got stuck they were with terror shaking out the exflm&isì
Cap. Vl. Authors moreover hyphoe various They bring terrors to thee, with which the ingredients are strong were struck with terror, and the Jrabescii, the same about the hyphae of Labyrinthian passages They speak best, they say first in certain places the fattuas fuilfe pofites, which while stepping on the floor they would strike, soon after the mouth and throat horrible bus, with arms too tis tamar&è they would rub them, even they would faint in the embrace.
Halls some were broken by that artifice; as or the words uttered by the voice through various reflexes cion circles between the wooden walls faelos the voice of the phone increased to an immense extent not one, fod whole army the mantis would report the commotion; whence ex- terror explòràfores "while fQga fax of life they crush, I filled the riajonbus they would fall lifeless with fear of errors; with the gates also open to perceive the rope, by which they were astonished, and I was struck with a kind of panic further incompetence to fail rent Beyond the stratum, he tells Thebes cologne imperishable fuilse to whose abacus at a certain hour the stranger a certain rope was stretched, pfe quoquete audiife confesses, anverò iftiulìnodi tecbnàlì-na calli, an magi- with artifice, or with the prowess of ftrudum fueiit, ' to spread it to others he leaves hither the of Memnon, which are pierced by the rays of the leaves of the east, feio quemiantionic to eat the rope
folly ATHANASIUS Klrcheri LABTRIìfTHI Jtertus a Daeclalus Ardeteti) aifirmam Iiià confinati, umoJtea. Jafufofa narrahcmes de ThefeoJlmcc noimtro vtteres Poeta etOratares ccerrvmtmjecenmt. Tower of Babel Lib. IL
Cap. Vl. he flourished; in certain also beautiful fiery flames to be seen forever endowed with your light, what and how could have been done in tome in Oedipus Syntagus. lamps of old give Egypt to whom Many things the daughters of the papfim cite authors in the fìibterranei of the Egyptians Seclli. adytis Ipe&ari paradoxa lane incre- difficult
where: all in the 3rd part oedipus Syntag. of meebanica, magic ygy-, multiple authors confirmed by them, you will find leave CHAPTER VII. Te Labyrinto in Crete, Lemnos ahif of Greece to the glory jEgyptian
Tupenda of the Egyptian Laby the size, abundance, and magnificence of the hundreds of thousands of foreigners His reputation was kindled, as neither the Greeks nor the Greeks The Romans could have contained them, without in Egypt their departure would make them fabrics that were used by the ancients as they had received superior works; was among the other Greek architects, A satyr, whom others with Daedalus they found that Pliny had given works in Egypt they contributed
to juxtapose The great fame of the Egyptians Thera knew almost what was planned in Greece, indeed with the Labyrinth: - he will explore the future, in the contemplation of so many works a confluence of spirit and intelligence, indeed the hundredth part of the Labyrinth whom in Crete and Lemnos the unfaithful it was intended, it is imitated; use in pre- retreating from Pliny we met, Vlutarcbus also at Natalem Comi' tem hoc péto five hiftoriam live fabu- He explains that Thefeus, says he, before Pi- growing up in Cre- as well as He wanted to sail with them one of to those who every year after the death of Androgeus Minoém %egem Crete: in the name of tribute They were sent, as they said, into the Labyrinth to pray to the Minotaur; they talk The whole body of the Minotaur minisj at the head of the boVvs, bic was in the Labyrinth tbo place of great importance inextricabdi Yiarum the vagaries of many who had been faBusfuera ad The Egyptians iliius Labyrinthbi Jormam ad Crocodilopolis was built. About Ariadne fi the story of Mino's daughter and the Minotaur Who is right and what is the truth? rat isade Natal Count and elsewhere mythologists, because everything that they bring us fifty, because we have done wrong which: in They meet those obstacles We have decided to omit it. of this but most of the authors of the Labyrinth chiteólum they make Dxdalus
Tlinius he makes the author a little earlier with a better voice He quoted a satyr who in Crete se Lemnus He was going to build a Labyrinth given help ra is a prophet in Egypt, as from ad- a wonderful labyrinth of mass Itrucìura he would crush the body, five by weight strength, five talents odd game Certainly from various reports I did not receive it as worthy, but in Crete I went into exile in the field ri to many thousands of countries. next day genius P. Cbrijìopborus ras Societ. noftra: excellent math ticus, P. ClaYù in re mathematica ohm focus calculator, given the diameter his pafTuum fuilfe, his capacity state and gyrations bends and the time wasted in running through them, to demonstrate
Pliny's Satyr the old man of this Labyrinth architects in building it he did not hesitate with your labor ufùm fuiffe, lèd fibi fi- round surety the best of all ciflìma fèlegife, and ingenious in- with the discovery of the first perimeter of the walls
riof Athanasius Kircher C. VII. rioique fkxus reflexus cumiumma in proportion to the first prototype and the expreffifle, whom the Father did Grumberger in a better way, by which could and should have done this lazy ichno graph to be presented cenliiit Whence partly from its Cyclic contexts, partly tim to be seized by the wretched paths the loss of hours due to inextricable errors He could scarcely touch the subject, who but the Labyrinth is square But they say that it is so difficult to reach them they make it easy to exit at the end of a flexible wire they did not find See Figure Labyrinth the Egyptians mediate lub square fi- gura bridge, Cap. iv. unintelligent: be someone but he asks, what a great glum I mean, how many puffs did he need? who all circular direct he will forge those paths into the ground, niet more fat, where? Italian miles pafls make, pieces of thread bat, that of strings or wires a cluster of such a large lump he was making, as hardly from the name autju- chin carried it will pop As whereas in the iEgyptian noftro Laby- rintho except him who the center of the whole he was surrounded by carpenters (whom Sa- tyrus five Dcedalus in Crete alone hidden had been so many Labyrinths they were
how many Prefects of feu Nomos him con- Sechili tinuiffe fupra often, all ve- ro fimul connected one Labyrinth done, so too the hair of the multi-layered hall rum, porticoes, and other kindreds gurgles so that let them use Ariadne's thread, lest indeed, to return from whence they had come to develop through the entire menfem po- let them protect and not even a hundred men spikes or stringed animals. fire wire they would carry the bales of rum, which at the end of Ariadne's inextricable never fpe- it could be rare. But you ask how to the pigs of the Labyrinth I could avoid labyrinthine braids rint, I say these graphics a fupra presented by a drawing ufos fuilfe and in all bends, pottery parts of the world india number ris or any other known imprefìa Ruffe, and this ichnography? mod, where to go, where? road? holding then to the centers of Nome, where the chra of the Kings, and to the center of the whole Labyrinth where the maufolea of kings is one their Thefauris had founded him they would know But this is about the labyrinth thads miracles to the curious tem diets CHAPTER Cheap Tropology Epilogue Labyrinths C Vili TETERES Iàpientes per Labyrin-
ficare voluiffe, entangled with snow erte, and involved many difficulties so the life of men, him from others always more serious problems arise; è qui- bus nemofe snow through the slush to explain the strength and the power to be worn; but it is not only in private Dad! life) fed into the ambition of man do they fall, where? all wonderful things The font is entangled with difficulties and errors; because pleasures are more difficult as the director of the throne, therefore Tbefeus slaughtered so many horrible monftrs you, exhausted by so many labors, so many perils the matter was wrapped up in order to satisfy Himself restraining some lust tus, at last the brave cast down to an unhappy end he concluded. But to make this a little more precise put Tower of Babel Lib. II.
C Vili, they were weighed, what else is the Labyrinth? expresses
the snow world in which life to save mortals, to be filled with pain, and He anxiously inquires about those things, which: iffi eternal: ruin But there are three best, which: the life of mortals inextricable involve errors; the first of which it is the ambition of great men; in Tenelopes the suitor Philomania, envy in all things
avengers: focia, to which the unfortunate such in labyrinthads of this kind to you driven out of innumerable trifles in inevitable trifles, at the end of the remedy, in- rolled tangled, until tan- of devouring the Minotaur, let them give way in the end, and become the vice of ambition let us consider more carefully, we see that this de- wealthy really labyrinths errors to confirm a miserable life, of course small the greater the greater let them take down the leaf, while the kingdoms re- join the fire, to establish new principalities take care of the world give; ó how many cares, vigils, folicitu- and it must be poured out with money; how many three cis and nugif imply faith; how many they expound with what terror they are celled, so as not to fall into the mouth of the Minotaur finally they run into each other fear forever fluctuating, when to more in the tracks fibi confection are advanced, , so much greater error they find the bus wrapped in faith and at the end of any Ipe concept mass to the fi- to bring them from whence usually ra- bie ex adverfa: fortune throwing mad father
envy the cedar gradually fell contabefcents, the same to them as Tbefeo to keep Today They boast of errors all those who want so many strong gifts fpecimina, so many devoted peoples, poft SeSìJll. so many monsters finally tamed within fra: born: tortuous labyrinthine lust true tenelopes pro- empty mind, in the open light perpetuated by a quote and a romantic idol let them bury your intent mind, so much so harlotry of pigs inftar mud iricru when they are tired, they do nothing else, neither fua nor a certain fanatical faith hold ignorance: and burn with shame they seem to care for their comrades. And these indeed, with no means of escape let him go, what else is he doing, the snows, like the Minos into food they will be stopped They commit themselves to this kind of Labyrinth everyone, who of riches and resources Thefàuris more a: quo they start, all envy: vengeance: given to the fury take that What do you force non-mortal goldsmiths? Veclora In whom all envy, vengeance, and the other more powerful disturbances of the mind the bations are in concert with Mars, Fed for who at last from labyrinthads these free from errors and free from errors is it no other snow than rope riadnce will lead him, whom I have nothing else from I would say that I would return a man wise, prudent, and not afraid God's treachery, of human affairs contemptorenr, who in the fblo DEO fpem he has a well placed; for here give the thread of intention in this a: rumnofà protected by the life of mortals, book end hindering the development of fefe, GOD du he will be able to But this about Labyrinths dida fúfHciunt ca- ATHANASIUS K I R C H E R C A P U T Juperbis fabricis monumentifque of Grsecorum y which to imitate tion of the Egyptians at no time at Gracia they have been tried. Temple of Diana? Ephesus INte'r the other devices, of which the old The authors mentioned met i. Temple of Diana Epbe yLe, in the middle of the world's wonders earned, in which the total k Jfta two hundred And twenty years labored foilTe Vltnius delivers Let it be stuffed in a handful of leaves, lest he should be shaken by the movement, slippery unbreakable foundation mints were located
the architect Ctefi pbon before treading on the car fine, then woolen skins. Tem- fold length it is said fuifTe pe- while, width zzo, the columns in it to the kings of the fairies, to the horses they were sealed and though it be in him rum i peridromidum
of periphtyls there was a great variety of things, men ad iúblimem archite&onicenE- of the Egyptians, according to Herodotus, they touched As much as from the authors we could collect whose future They rush to meet him at the beginning of the battle. Queen Mau of Artemifia Caria (oil. Artemifia Queen Caria Maufolo rites of death, he erected a funeral pyre, inter the wonders of the world are numbered
whose feet high at the base there, he was girded by thirty it was clear from Auftro, and Borea feet, it contained feet in circumference. Scopas, from Borea, raised the sky from the east
erìax, to the south Timotbeus; from west Cafu Leocares The queen is not yet at work washed away by fate. Artists ta- they will not receive men; mat From this beauty all things Re- gum And the emperor records they are called Mauiblea so Vlin of whom Vropertius fflec Maujolei dtVesfortunafepulcbri Death is freed from the extreme condition. Colojfm %bodius. Cares Lindius Lyphippus a pupil, ar- Chiteotus, which he had seen in Egypt, hung ftatuaaim prodigies, eamm ma- we imitated Jefta
crushed problem in %bodo as in the place of to erect a portuno, which Colojfum So- the matter to be appealed to, said to Apollo then It was yards high, that is 1o with palms, who wants the fiftieth then a year after the earthquake lying then was a miracle, a few pol- the law they embraced him, older they were fingers, as most of them were fattuated; there was little of the young members in it they gaped
to the port of Rhodia ereót ships passing between the legs admitted
Sultan of Egypt killed pata %bodo from the air of this ftatua' not nations camels load is delivered
years old conftitiffe of rum at the time of tons are referred to, where the note is no doubt erroneous a great thing irreppfìffe, while others use Plinth's interpreters interpret: whom for Coloffum Solis Tlinius cubic He delivers the deep bed, Volaterranus meters high he does elbow rum, and against which the authors say, from the brass of this ftatua of the Sultans of Egypt camels, Volaterranus says neraffe: for in this agreement things are to be believed it will become larger, when the height of Colof It is convenient to be near Volaterra Tower of Babel Lib. II.
C O LO S US Alone? at Rhodes spans, which is about a thousand they add, that they concede to no one there is snow from the inexperienced, not to say I give to man: it is not more suitable fed cameos loaded with it mouse, so as to make an error in the numbers certain contigiffe becomes It must be said really there the height is cubits. meat loss A T H A N A Gip. lX. ruiffe the los loaded with that air. Various pre- terea Coloflì were inherited by various, de to whom see Tlinius, in iEgypt La- by rintho it had already been demonstrated, no one Color Then, fed so many that perish the flylias of the Labyrinth had columns, which are all the idols of gods and kings they were of immense height, and that I gave him a surprise lingula from one stone exculpted by the Thebans. But there was one among the rest Herodotus tette, whose or he he had a foot length the length of cubits, that is feet; to whom according to the proportion of the human body the height corresponded to feet; which all of these things perished ColofTorum the amount that was once fad, lon- he was overjoyed. He erected in the Capitol Lucullus from Apollonia brought cu. bitumen
Lyphippus the magifter of Cavetti, another of Taventi He erected a column cubits He erected a golden one next to him ColofTum on the Palatine mountain, from which Rom. writers of things those whom I trust. But those of the Egyptians the greatness of the works of the devil I find no one; or from there so that some of their records Klrcheri years to this day rent, for all the rest, free of charge And they were extruding from the Romans, lest they indeed, after having been destroyed It was and among the Omanis the theater, which M. jrlmiUus Scauvus extru- columns of confpicium whose part of the fcena was of marble, the middle è glass (that I created nothing else I will give you some ex special material composed) column ima pe- while between the pillars were fignae of air in number
caged man num7000 Ix. 'xVlimus. Innumerable at this point, of remembering I{oman- I can bring the rum to the memorials, nium, Lippius and elsewhere, they meet I am silent. It is surprising, however, that with the various monuments in this and that way day to years sodium remanfiffe not even of a swiftness, whence freely a to lift aufìm, none of them with Egypt compared I could, when
more of them in this day and age corrupted, even a thousand and more nis prepared before the ome, to be perfected let's try SeEìm CHAPTER The Tower of Nembrodaea still vefliges to this day and to this day be found cab X. yVUotimes with me the penitiùs of things the rudeness of the Romans, and
the inevitable all the time I will trust the accuracy of your confirmation; to- Ties comes to mind, of the early ages empty, deceitful and irresponsible dregs of men ta in so many and so many, which even ipfàm hu they would betray my faith at length, raising the god, care, and flattery I give They were arbitrating those who founded rant, eternally perishing, the whole world while the city, the tower, and wrought miracles with wonder to contemplate the confluence; fed they erred, not even to the point of human I am afraid of the transience of rum. First viajfm- fyriovum Reges, Nembvod, SemionjiaZ'ia they were full of thought. Relatives of them in Egypt from the same Chufia fa- thousands of rival Babylonians into Egypt propped up, in erecting obelilcs, pyra- with horrors, labyrinths, the mode of nefcie- ban These Greeks and Romans for in circuses, hippodromes, amphitheatres theatres, baths, aqueducts be you are going TOWER Chapter X let the works of the nation succeed, that one every day or in the fall we marvel at the well. So nothing (slip- nothing firm and leafy for us pore's deceptive uncertain promise that But in order to re- we turn
be who therefore quarries, where- for so lumptuoià almost unbelievable the works of the Babylonians some of the wounds are still there, i li ni- instead of giving him something else to eat,
did Seneca say that? in the wind qv. afi dia never fuif- B A B E L L B. IL piles of piofis meet, Nini viàeìi- Seti. III. cet Semiramis to the magnificent quon- I will give the blossoming rushes. Zua? Yes KcAiuy. &JcLvi&p'tg r fòaotXeiov Nìv&o tIuÙ NjVov h rn Aline) ce kUo-olg' q rare ytwìy wa% Yig tsi xlia-jiia i (òolSvXcS'v 'àr tyktou! ) t? amcts nyi r X&W rfò òvBctSvXfàvi Ìyw3 7roMct fent
He will not be able to do so: of which, in fact, in place She will be precisely crushed, I deserved it we doubt; and about among them a great geographers
in the past is con- compete: the same about the city of Babel I would like to be understood by others. In fact MVy
T? Yl7lipX TCWTYig il, TOL Tg Tetyy
igio'x&Jcà, kJ (rvpiyftov t vdjo&My, (C ÙiùàfVXJùùV bi tto'&ju. oìc,
yeCp'Jpav, but when the knowledge of this truth! And the Syrians from the Mides no other Syrians even
from the matter of those who di- they understand, as them who Babylon and and places, impelled by a curious curiosity, they argued, and diligently tia examined poi yesterday confide to the father The king was crushed by nine; whose alteration Nine cities, five Nina Ninus Atturias run
we cannot reach, from to them be beaten; for it was peculiar to Affinis We will let some of them down. Cbaldais change the letter S into T, as it were dorus, as long ago son still Here he founded Atturia on behalf of Ajjyria; his at the time of the magnanimous Tower, and of the state: A true wife may marry a man part The expert reports that He and the Lamb will administer it, Babylon Rhodotus hints, for Darius 8cCyrus ì He roared. Hi for Apix they are dominated. The works of Semiramis are still many in vain. What about Babylonia? by
made up dggeres, who are called Semiramis, {jrunm. walls ammunition factory, tuborunu he said the first fuifTe Turris 8c of the city destroyers, like Nabucbod nofor the King was born, I became a king it has closed
where: everything is fufius at Nicolaus Damafcenus will bring Josephus. Among the moderns
who diets Babylon ì que in iisyO' aqutfduBùsj&fcaU, &foJf nor antiquities in the rivers and lakes, and the road jr R. P. Tbilippus, Religio- Here are many other things from Jmmianus, Diony lùs from Reform. Dicalceatorum, [fio
and other geographers, who Iifcakeat qU j [Itinerary. which deBabylonicean-' a kind of Babylonian antiquities tàsobfer- tiquitatibus oblervarat, they made a beautiful statement, to bring "I will go. " He can do everything. Strabo then openly di-! lemme, which: I omit the stem of brevity. don't cit, all in the plains of Babylon came that there is no doubt that in time veto of the old antiquities, the monuments of the Gracians, and the Omanis in the past and their rubbish heaped up, so that the ex iilciem rubbish several Make a palTum, where you do not have them yet leftovers? have existed For diro- ATHANAS Chapter X. bring the chronology, after Sardanapa- lum, Variutn Cyrum Verfarum Cbal- dceorumxxo Kings, such a device rum the first devaftators fuiffe, Ba- seize Bylon with a mighty army, And you overthrew NiniVen
and the rest figures devaftaffe So about this there can be no doubt in fact. The question therefore, whether in modern times as well fìmptuoiarum ftupendaru fabri Anhodk's dear remains are still burning. Go- the ruins of Ba-nos lane, which Iulcept into Babylon wSJ.
developed; no one really in this respect, those who have greater faith with this study, using large amounts of food I remember you found me, than Peter from the lowest and most famous man Peter
de Valle, with which to use a large mini BabyTonT nM neceflitudo intercefTit
so too dear partly spoken by him, partly executed jus doctiflima itinerum à fé confeóto- rum perioch, which? I will bring it here, myself I learned more gloriously. He found hife qua- be to all Rev. P. Pbilippus de S. nity, the General Order of Difcalceato rum Minifter in his Itinerary, which Indians
from here he executed the Romans. For perhaps of AffyrU fitu, nature property, frequen- and the piles of stones that meet the force said: Head, says he, Cbaldea, leu the metropolis will go to Baghdad, from comfort of the gardens with which it is surrounded, cì: a; and it is the same, which one? new bylonia built from ancient ruins, and was a city before it was destroyed by the Perfis tur, vaftifìima, juper shores on both sides the excavations of the Euphrates and Tigris rivers
today from that side where Eupbrates cit; the other part of the light experts still, ob- He holds the title of the city of Bononienfe, because a variety of palm trees and gardens jj multitude ameeniflìma, reftaurata in the times of the kings of what towers, what strong walls, ex
I R C H E R It was fortified with brick walls. Iti-Se&Ml spin pò(tea of one day below the same ur- bem ancient 'Babylonis infczTigrim A brother-in-law, of accumulated waste" the multitude is slain
where? lìint gran-" wealth Bylon's most lucid evidence. Report-" but the Armenians, the Chriftians, the leaders noftri, expert in localities, will make a place" prominent, miles away" removed, which they said from everyone to hold the ruins of the Tower of Fàbel, because no-" ftris seemed very verifiable because of the in-" the nation of bitumen came from there-" tiscopia, quolatomi, utifacertex-" tus mentions, in the xdification of the Tower they were afraid, and seems to be the place of many the height of ten feet still ha-" neral More from Benja's Journey here writings Abulfede "Geography" I could bring the Nubians, {ed luffì- Peter suffers instead of all of the Valley
the right words are in Italian in this idiom. Il giorno abbreffo, ebe erano il di No- Peter a
alleili vemb. parti la mattinapur al alba, un ho- itinerary e più inauri meo giorno arrivammo alle ruine di Babel, fatto alle what kind of pian of course il padiglione per baVer commodità. to define e trattenerfi a Vedere every cofa well, how much fojfe bifognato I turned around the ruin of all le parti, (wings at the top, meat nai dentro, throughout I saw, I laughed, jr in con- clufione quel che troVai è queflo In mine di una grande e pianifima campagna, Vice-
not about a mile from me, al fumé Eufra-, ere lapaffa in quelluogo quafi through Babel" nente, fi rilieVa infn boggijopra land one gran mole di fabrica rouinata, tutta d'un majiiccio, o chefoffe cof give the beginning, me a mepare ò che le rouine Fhabbiano ca- Gionato, eridotola, come fi Vede a guift di un monte, di che però non appanfee molto wood La fua form e quadra, give the point tower ò da piramide, rivolta giuflo con le quattro faccie all'i quattro angoli del mon- I do not deceive myself Do not proceed give Tower of BabelLib II. I neither read nor read. Inside walking through Scci. lll- diJopra, fi trojano alcune rotte, ma tan- to rouinate, che non fi difcerne, che cofa Ca'p. X. dalle rotane (che può e'ffer easily) ap- pari I"ce bora alquanto più lunga de Tramon- tana a Meo giorno, che da Levante à Po- A spinning circle. Il circuito attorne
mifurato alla j foffero, e di alcune fio anche in dubbio, fé The tower clumsy, and one thousand and one hundred and thirty four pafii. j fiano cofe fatte con la fabrica, oVero da poi Mifiura, fitto, e form difabrica, che con- give to the people of the campagna by ricoVrarfivi, fronta per àpunto con la piramide, che chi' I che mipare piùverifimile ama Straberne Sepoltura di Belo, e che La materia di che è compofia tutta lafa-
deve effer quella, che nellefiacre lettere è det- ta la Torre di Nembrotto, nella città di Babylonia, or Babel, eat at the end of the hog quefio luogo fi chiama E cofa da notare, che dal detto monte di rouine in poi, non fi Vede in quel luogo ne pur figlio di altra cofa, che mofiri brought out one breath citta cofi grande, Vedendofifolo in alcuni luoghi certain foundations in the earth rouinate walls, fifty b give a distant mountain Del reflo on the ground I turn e tutto pianifiimo, avoid imposing bricks è lapin curiofa cofa, che Vtfia, e da I was offered with diligence, breaking them with pickaxes in diVerfi luoghi. Son tutti mat- toni molto grandi, e di terra cruda fixed, eat I believe al fole, àguifa della Tappie of Spain e fon murati not con buona calce, ma pur con terraccia, e per plus, tra mattone, e mattone', fcolate with that earth, che fierVe di calce Vifono come àiolaio certainly palafiri with reeds fpeate, oVero paglie dure da fare fiuoie, A luogo a luogo poi, Vi fono mejcolati in The tower ejferVi fiato corpo di fabrica notable, no Verfie parti, maffimamente doVe più impor- Vedendofine in a certain place, the rest of the fopra j ta per fofiegno, molti mattoni della mede- earth, go away he ma "with great faith, èpur fima grandezza, ma cotti, from Fiodi from mu- let's talk about how much make it di Babylonia j rati with good kick ò with bitumen, but there I will take care of my will. Màinfiomma, iltem- raw fono fiena dubio affai più Di tutti pò lungo fa, from guafia gran cofe, bifogna anche to confederate, che fon about a quattro a thousand years, òpoco meno, che quella cittàfu manufactured, che in such a wonder to me, co- me fi Veda, quel che fi Vede, tanto più che Diodorus Sicolo, il quale è pur antico, di- ceche alfuo tempo eragià ridotta àpochifi- Alntuào dung. V altezza fopra land del monte
The tower t deHe r0uine, è doVe più, è doVe manco, ma fiottofoprafaràpiù di ogni alto quefii mattoni, cotti, from crude, with bitumen attaccato, e di quelle cannuccie, che hanno in mine io hebbi gufilo di pigliarne co per moflrarli in Italy àgli antiquari cu- riofi, che certo mipar che fia una bella an- tichità, facendofi mentione deW ufo in que- fio paefe di fabricar con bitumen in Vece di- calce, non folo da Giuftino abbreViator di Trogo nellefabriche di Semiramide, ma dalla facraficrittura medefima nellafabrica à punto di quefia fiejj, a Torre città come fogliono haVer tutte le fabrice rouina- difido della quale laficritturafacra à Nenv: doVefi ala, doVefi abboffa, doVefco- j brotto, i profani à Belo attributifeo- ficefia, doVepiana, che fipuò fialire, doVe: onde not ill il Bellarmine nella fiua ha fegni di torrenti per l'acqua delle pioggie che run abbaffo
anchor from inside di fo- pra doVe hollow, doVe rilevata, infomma a guifia di un confufo monte ISlon fi Vedefcgno alcuno difiala perfia- lire, don't get carried away by entering, ondefi confer- ma, che le ficaie erano attorno difuori, e co- me parti più deboli furon le prime adejfer rouinate, in a way che non ne apparifice più Chronologia Campatagli anni à dietro, che I saw la prima Volta in mano di un Padre Giefuita in Constantinople, believe that Belo e tutto uno, e Stra- good with Herodotus, and with other ethnics
chiamò, come diffi di fopra, Sepoltura di Belo quefiafleffapiramide, che dagli fini- to the tower of the chariot Vien called Torre di Babilonia of Nembrotto: Give an anchor to Hebbigufilo
far A T H A N A Chapter X. far retrar Babel dal mio painter from there he did not do it properly il difcgno da due parti, che eran lepiù belle Cedute from con- I fear tutti quattro i foi broad from hell poi quadri con pia diligenza That Che Jia Ancient Babel, from the Torre di Nembrotto, not e è dubbio fecondo? ne y perche oltro che il fito lo dimojìra, dà paefi anchor hoggidì è conofeiuta per such a ir in Arabic mata Vulgarmente Babel, come -Latini è called They call this in Latin fic
The next day, probably the of November bris y I went out in the morning to the east of Jole, together hour more before noon we came to shave of Babylon, near where? We set up tents
as convenient we would have lunch, and we would stay there nor will we divulge everything. I want to un- say, I went round to shave
into the dust I entered, I saw, I saw I saw you again, and finally where? I offered this TunTs unt m medium large? plain, to di- Babel is half a mile away from the river Eu brother who flows into this medium in a place almost to the West, even today Is there a large amount of equipment? detruda? , yy all together in one maffa, five ab At the beginning it was, as it seems to me, five the scraper will reduce it to fpe- a hundred, of whom, however, hardly any appa- ret speed The figure is square, in nearing the top of the tower branches
four ivy exadè Ipe- ringing to the four corners of the world the truth of the snow is wrong, or the snow is rude the rum has changed its shape, which is easy to do could, appears today somewhat lon- I go from the North to the South, how from the East to the West
thirty-four parlù. diminutive what kind of fit and shape is the device? in the bee near the top of the pyramid of Ipecius n bet, agrees with that which Strabo vo- cat Sepulchrum BeliySc which they carry effe where is it? in tearful letters it is called the Tower jy Nimrodea, in the city of Babylon five yy'Babel, how is the place ifte today p is called The tower I R C H E R Works? It is worth noting that from Seti III. I gave him a mountain to shave in further, not indeed, there appears to be some urgency of the matter
of any, which? to point out in that place ex- tc titiffe such a great city, and that cc only to be found in certain places some foundations in the earth rum dilapforum, fifty or le-" three times the land around planiftima u it is, and it seems imposable stay there" a considerable amount? size, when nowhere did he clean the ground be found leftovers? huge but when we do what fpe-
to be given they have been device? Babylonian? True, the length of time makes destroys the great things to be trusted it is also that about four thousand years, or a little less at the time when the city was destroyed give: it seems strange to me, why-" how much apparition still appears rent, and this all the more because Diodorus Si- culusMtoì' ancient, already long time ago
I will give you the details. The height of the mon- you, whom I said I would erase, from the earth here it is greater, there it is smaller; fed media height the oldest palace in Naples. figure" it is deformed to all the a? fications: here high, there humble: grab here or hump there" flat, where it is able to touch, there the channel c in the interior a hollow here, there convex: in one word, it is like the mountain flowed
None fast it appears fire? " or steps to be taken, nor" gate? to enter, whence it is credible degrees outside the fuifle fitos, tan-" how parts weaker at first fuilfe" collapsing, he came so that he neither flew nor waved anyway it is perfect Intro-" as they pass by, they meet on the upper side" what cave? , fèd adeò diruta? , as dis-
Tower of Babel Lib. II. Strabo with Herodotus, other ethnic groups, Secl. llt He called, as I said above, the same one the pyramid of the Sepulchre 'Beli Chapter X. It cannot be distinguished what they were I have no doubt as to whether they were made: with the device, or by desire excavated by the feet: into a refuge, which mi- The Tower of Babel is said to the scribes he seems more truthful. nica, or Nimrodaa. I also took care of Ba- material from which universal device be drawn by my painter with paint here-", is composed, of all things which: there Igraphica, he made his occur, it is rare, which I di- "? j ligenti (Iìmèexaminaviligonevariis in who were the most beautiful in the world? ? broken in places All are made of latcres what, having completed all the qua-" 3j grandiufculij crallì, earth: crude: , fic- a cat, as I believe, to the Sun, in the manner a fortress, which the Hifpani call Tappias J} cemented They are not good kicks
the earth is soft, however, and in the greater fir- a gentleness between the plaster casts with ifta the earth, which instead of lime, was mixed There are some small qnafi by lolarias: I am going to be more diligent-" aunt And here is that ancient Babel, and Tower of Nimrod, none give me-" it is bium, because it was done outside the place demonstrating that, the tradition ifta today-" that flourishes in these regions, and Arabic commonly called 'Babel, ' according to the Latin yy cane: broken into pieces: it is called velpale. Hxc Peter from Falle, who la-" dura: , from which flowers flow: Then I will grind one with bitumen and straw mixed flint in various places, maxi- a mixture of reeds, as fin- me where greater firmness is needed, la- n teres several of the same magnitude, 3J fèd baked and foiled, and cemented goods n lime, or bitumen, they still go raw yj are undoubtedly much more. Of these cooked and raw potatoes, with bi- adhering to the fire, and small iftars n rum of inert reeds, pleasing to me he went to carry some pieces with me, And the same in Italy to find Antiqua 3J riis curiofis, which really seems to me? j beautiful monument of antiquity method if you regions cementing with bitumen instead of lime J? remembering not to abduct Juftinus the traveler of Trogi in the Semiramide factory, fèd also ipfà Sacred Scripture in fabri- n ca ejufdem of the Tower and of the city, of which the Holy Scripture of Nimrod will be destroyed, And the profane scribes attribute it to Belus: J? whence Bellarmine is not bad in his chro-? ) nology imprelTa in fruitful years n which I first saw in the hands of one of them gular early antiquity: maxi- my lord's mother, contributed to the perpetuation of the memory of the event. I will add at this point another important point ris obfervation, from Benjamin the Hebrew he lived in the Itinerary of the City and the Tower en]T done. That's how it matters. Hence oneRs WÌBmSqEL I gathered together the complexities of the peace, and now it was poured out eVerfa, in which the kingship of Nabuchodonophorus the fall of the people they live in
bile for various reasons Sr. the witch was killed and dragons, the same kind of fables. A few miles are passed from Mine to Hilan
bine Turrim4- than division They began to learn what kind of stones they were was conjured, which in Arabic Jagzar dic'u there The length of the foundation z is about a contains things, the width of the Vero walls is
it is cubits, where Vero the broadest it is it contains reeds. The way are produced throughout the entire building, which bus confeenfis è fupremo loco agri Father's Jeluita: Constantinople
he believes there at io miles in the pious region of Belum and Nimrod are the same
strength This is Benjamin. ca- Chapter A T H A N A KIR. CHERI CHAPTER XI. Buckets Words both from Nembrod, then from Nino and Semiramis to the banks of the Euphrates Tigris out; and their veigm even with the fuperjlites. From Jsfembrod there reports Iàcra Ge- I'm afraid hiftoria Chapter X. lerf i. "pai Saa mnDa p$3 flAai was the first of the kingdom of Nembrod in Babel and Arach&r Achad Calna m ferra Sennaar. To whom Chaldai'ca replies: rrrvpa em mm San jsìnso rnkai happy "pNi aa Greek in the names differ somewhat
}@jj g$uV5 fw tws ficunheìctg the court? (òcttcvAw, xgìi òpìfo ct, k) Aww
hv yYì This is it therefore Tetrapolis, that is, four ur- bes, which were built by him, the smallest the pole is dominated by the flood King Emperor Nembrod. Where? but those places were built before Babylon cta fuefint, when the iàcra criptura fileat, I really think she is close to the mind of ria Montani
Neighboring Babylon to Eu- It was built up; although not unbelievable fît, those also were to be divided ad Eupbrate? n, to be divided east of the Tigris he polished the stroke For these things properly to the land of Sennaar seems to belong But with this line the conftitition of the place cannot be understood, let the reader go to the graph luprapolita
where I kneel will he find a dear city lit. Re- Diodorus brings Semiramis to various con- He divided the cities
crèitig, he said ku] oiFhctg TrÓAetg, cC tv 7To- TCifJLOV f1 Ti dJ(pPiTluJ ìtj tqv Tiy&v, in which the emporium, collapsed of those from which Middle and near the Paratacene they were carried to the country: of which no threat
ctfi unknown and perished hither and thither they will remain, yet from the infinite ruins bus, to which the shores of the Euphrates and the Tigris they are poured into this every day, I jucceiTu times to others and others from it the cities that were infested with threats, easily polTunt of knowledge Where? all famous the ancient river from the valley Philippus of the Holy Trinity in his lines what curiofirlìmè they offered
in Mesopotamia Orpha, which day? Abraham's country was bami
Cbaldceis TJr diet; Muffai tu x. u-tum Atty- that Meredin, Diarbecbin, Anna, Hetbjtwwnque Cbarres on the death of the famous Craffus; Arbela
fighters But listen to the reciting of hife mus Vetrum a Valle, which the city of Sa- Leiman says no other fuiffe than snow pofteri Tbefipbontem five S'eieueiam no- thefi
threatened Here we know from Daniel, popa se- The field was discovered when I went away leucia palace "Kabucbodoìiofor, where three boys Baiatile
Nabucho- ros Hebrxos ìnrornacemignisprojrcidonofor. He rejoiced, and worshiped him derectalfent Here is found the lake of lions Lake whether in which DdwWpròjeété was: here DnieiS NtniVes genuine fat is oftened,
his innumerable others, which? from the Itinerary they became known to us. Hence the words right
too much long, lummopere ta- men curiofà hic lubjunenda cenlui- mouse Perhaps for the modern? Babylonia, where? fàagdat is said, fitu& nature diileruiiTet, finally le to ra- Is Mefopotamia the neighbor of Babylon? , ve- back and forth Their true selves made
e più di un' bora prima di meo giorno giungemmo al luogo destinato, che fi I had
Tower of Babel Lib. IL
with faith Santo da Machomettani, e par la fatutià detto mondo) che in una Meficbita in campa- gna prefifio à quel luogo è fiepolto. The first I will cook in the kitchen, fubitofcefi on earth, was di andare à drittura (fienai curarci di dere fopra fiume un caftelletto moderno,
difihabitato, W abandonato, come io cre-, through le correrie degli Arabi) à Veder le rouine di mia gran fabrica, circa un mi- glio dentro terra, che gli Ebrei di boggi I say to idiots, let it be il tempio, nel quale Nabuchodonofor faceva adorer lafua flat I pray so much named in the carriage ficritture, e quanto al luogo potrège pochiche quella fatua dice il fiacro tefito, che fin erected in un campo, non della città, ma era creficiutapoi ingran città Il chefie è Seti. Ut, dunque Seleucia e Tefìfònte erano mendue in un medefimo luogo, il quale perciò molto bene dagli Arabi era chiamato Me- dain, cioè le due città, quaji di amenduefa- with one cup of coffee, e cosi à punto anche gathia, parlando di quel gran Cofi'oe, che sickened by one broken rice vuta iviprejfioj Vifin portato à braccia mori- bondopare che mendue Seleucia, e Tefì- forge in one leaf to be trusted These things they are translated from Latin: So I sail with these fagittari" see, at least one hour before noon-" the day we arrived at the place of deftina-" then, who is called Suleiman, àMuham-" Medanis ftolidè believed fánctus, pro- the province Babylonia
che fin colà poteva ben fitenderfi, ma tuttavai à dus, who in fan some of their cam- peftri, near this place he was killed. meparebbe frano, che infin boggi foffie re- with the breath on the foot so much together cofia so ancient I am very much not making a feverish dipietra. Vero i Mahometani, à i quali, come apiù learned
I believe more la chiamano Aiuàn Kefra, that is, the Court of 'Cefari, fabricatofe- give them a condo in Tefìfònte i di Perfia dell' ultima che anchor to measurement of 'to be known to the emperor che facevano Cefiari cbiamarfi. I mean It will make the device famous, so much so nelle hifito rie, how much in the Perfian Geography, with what ungiorno io anchor to procure di bave- really to concentrate on Da chef collecte ma- nifieftamente, che quivi era la città di Te- fìfònte, nelle guerre de to the Emperor
i Perfìani, òco'i Parthi, fipeffio nomi- born Et io Vi aggiungo di più, cheper con- Fequena, Vi era anche Seleucia, perche Strabo says clearly, che Tefìfòn- te non era altro, che un borgo di Seleucia, to the fabricated give i fy Parthi, àfine di not to give inconvenient à quella città con the number fa lor Corte, e congli eferciti Scythici, che fi conduceVano apprejfo, quando Venivano a in winter, by efifier quel paefie cal do, come lafiate lapaffaVano ò in Hyrcania, ò in Ecbatana, ma cheper quefia fpejfia re- fidena della corte loro, Tefìfònte ancora At the same time as the truth we fell to the ground, before everything we went straight (ignoring a small modern device? c was born to the river, from the inhabitants of carried, as I believe, because of the robberies Arabic cheap the ruins of the great fa-" bricks to the extent of one circus-" three thousand from the river, that Judei u of today idiot they say fuiflè once upon a time the temple in which Nabuchodonoforjuf. " It is to be worshiped as a golden bridegroom notorious in letters: that to u as far as the place is concerned, that can be true. " because the text says that this fuiffe erected in the field, not Civita- c tis, the province of Babylonia, which? it could be extended in either direction: for me, however it seems strange, and up to today only the rest of the day is actually so an-" "Tiqua? from the rock Therefore I believe that u Muhammedans, or better ones, who They call that building Aiuan %efra, that is the Atrium Cfiarum, they say ex- cc trout in place ancient? Ctefipbon-" tis to the Traitor Kings of genius, who also brings Caefares vo-" they were apt to imitate others bag-" Athanasius Kircher GipXI- peratorum. And they told me the builders of the army of the Parthians and the army of the Seci, III cam this famous, so in hi- all let him receive the fifth neceffaria ad v flowers, as in geographies Verficps I must live for them. There the Parthians which some day I will try to obtain in-
I {need in winter because of the temperature of the air, tclligere From which the colli- They were babbling
it is, there was the city of Ctefpbontem, , frequent in the history of the wars of the Impe- v of others with Verfu
or with Varthis But I add further, that He was also there? , Leucia, because Strabo loved to say Ctefi vphontem not fuiffe nifi iùburbium Se- Ecbatanis, (which today is called Tauris) because of the ancient during the local fa- mom Hxc to ValUi obfervation I tried to confirm the connection. per- git porro Vetrus a Valle. ISLel the Roman martyrology is anchored elsewhere di Aprile fifa memoria di un Santo Simeo- IcucU, made by the Kings of Partili- j ne, che fu Vefcouo de mendue quefle cit- not to this state with numerous liia p? the family is serious, and when bus of the Scythians, which they were carrying then Seleucia from Tefifonte fume, whence il medefimo fi Viene à to confirm. Medain poi degli Arabi in one complete geography? 7 with him they tended in the winter
because na, che èflimata fra di loro, erèdi buon, 7 that warm region eli: how? They had passed their ages either in Hyrcania, or in Ecbatana, fèd Ctcfipbontem tan- because of the frequent injury of the family y, lorum, 7 life. That be true, of course Seleucia Ctefipbon they were born in it in that place, which is why the Arabs re- 6tilllmè they called Medain-, that is Vipolim, from both of which I made one entities of the city. Agatbias also, where speaks of the great Ilio Cophroè, from On account of the defeat I was in the army there accepted He said it was carried, and so it is clear from here him and both cities, Seleucia Ctefibbonte to crush into one. Stra- I will, however, book xvi. very suitable offer of Tetris of Falle. For thus says the quote to place
effiì rlw Tiypi ÀgyojutuV vfhwov Ì0 KtoftYi xlviii(p(i)V fjLéyctM' tcwtIw fi' ìttoiQv Xeiftathov oi ffi (èetvi'Aeig) cf)owSoi tS r$. X$jKtiùùv
through xctfgis-aQ{jL&joiif(9 o-wÙuh s-UaùTiTtS. He continues: Hicpa gus the power of the city er the size of tft, when by the author, by what I mean, it comes from Punto interpreted by Tefìfonte, lost already forfè attato co crefcimento di Tefìfonte
nome& ogni memoria di Seleucia E per- che di quefte due citta tanto Vicine, che fa- cevano unfol body, Seleucia fi attnbuifce alla Mefòpotamia
come nel Epitome Geographical anebe è notato, m imagmope- rose ebefleffe nellafponda deflra epiù Oc- Cidentale del Tigre from Tefìfonte ali in- contro nella finifìra ali Oriente, doVe èl Aiuan Kelra, la quale a i%e Parthi, ebe di la Venivanofena dubbio era lapiù com- fashion Tutte quefle cofefono andato io rac- gathering from confronting the dalla Veduta de i luoghi y da quello che ho intefo ejferne fcrit- to not
good books about Mabomettani babi tator boggidi del paefe, e dalle note, che ho apprefo di me di qualche cofagià da me read, fé confrontino poi con tutte le al- three biftorie noflre, ini remitto à chiarirlo meglio con più commodtta y doVe baurb li- bri-, che qui nonne ho, ne la memoria de' already letti mi ferVe più che tanto, the boar mi contentarò di referir folo quel che Vidi eat it In the Roman Martyrology also" on the 2nd day of April eat one of Simeon's
who both city Seleucia 8c Ctefpbontis fìmul pifeopus fu. it, whence the same is confirmed. Then" The tower Chapter Then Medain Arab in a certain Geo- Verfica grapevines, who among them is great at a price he ate, and from a prillant man con- it is called fcripta, as I hear, turned Cte- Jìpbon, perhaps because already then when growing ment CtefipbontisjSeleuciapenims cum lose all memory of the name rat And because of these two states so close as to form one body rent, Sekucia is attributed to MefopotamUy
how also in Epitome Gcograpbicà it has been marked, I think, I was both on the right and the west pattern Tigris, Ctefìpbontem è regio- don't you think? to the East} where Aiuan is Lefra, which one? To the kings of the Vartbos, from there y3 coming in part, no doubt far from com- it was more important. All this I have done I conflated in places, and annotated those things I have heard of the eàrefcript effe inbonisli- A B E L L B. IL
bris of the inhabitants of Mumbammedan ho- S'olii, of the children more of the region "however" to them I contributed each annotation" I have it up to me. Let the others meet They agree with everyone other hiftories no-" I'll give you another chance riùs expofimrum when at hand I will have books which I do not have here
nor indeed is the memory of the books already read-" He does a lot of talking here, that's why I shall now report them at once. " what I saw He continues to describe the desire big that temple still Ctefi- pbonte fàperftes, etfi nonnihil fìicceffu affected by the times; today it is called à Mabometani
that is, the first court of the Vartbos, and then of the Omani. U. Aiuan Kefra brought together, come say- i Mahometani, oro l Arco di Sol- man Pac, come più alla groJJa y per la Vi- dinner di one cofa all the other lo cbiamano some A T H A N A Chapter XI. some of we don't know è une fabricagrandefat-
ta tutta di mattoni cotti, e buona calce-, con muraglie grofiffme, e ricolta con la fac-
to the east from la (where the facade che e la- dorata ci alto à bafo with a thousand feonparti-
menti de i medefinii mattoni, è lunga da cen- out of fourteen shots my MaVeVa co- I appeared in three ships
all' ufo glelle Chicfé noflre, delle quali quella di meo fola refta on foot
è lunga feffanta duepaffi miei) e larga trenta tre, ma mijuraiallo peggio, in which way che fi poteva, by la diversity, impacci del terreno ingom- brato Dinanzi in my not haportagran- de, come fi ufa, ma tutta in nave di meo, how large and tall
è aperta, di manie- ra che difuorifi Vede tutta dentorfn in the city but la qual cofa ha dato occafone à ipae- fani di chiamar queftafabrica Arco, per- che con lafua gran Volta, aperta dinanzi, ra- prefenta à punto lafigura di un grande, ar- co. Lifaccia dentro nella parte di dietro Vi è one small door in the mesfatta pur ad- co, dalle bande Vicino give all the facades on foot, Vi fono due altre porte piccole, che they entered in the other two smaller ships, quali fono rouinate del tutto come anche è cut off the ruined part Volta, from the wall tro But I don't need it I am tired of it defcriVerla, il mio pittore la dijfegnò con di- ligenza all in projective, from the square he will not do la Vedrà V. S. I bought portraits del naturale; ift:
Àiuan therefore, as they call Mu- Hammedani, or Arcus Soliman Vàc, ut in general, some call us badly, because of the proximity of these things it is a huge structure made entirely of la- with sharp feet, and a good kick, when with thin walls, facing towards, ,01'ientemj that from the rafting to each other foundations multifaceted dióto and a hundred My four-legged friend is long P, it is The three, as it appeared, had failed ships, (by which name they are called celle ine- the middle of which is only fiiperftes, and ERI Fèxaginta two paftus is meoslonga, S'olii. thirty-three broad Mcniùravi au-" take care of them as much as I could by the obftacula and humps of the waste god of the gods In the middle of the match rioris is not a great gate, such as effe u "Lolet, fed the middle ship, and how much" width and height so that it is open in such a way that everything from outside to inside is perfected to and fro to the wretchedness: where do I begin? " they took account of it, because of which liane u they called the fabric Arcus, because by the great arch of the front pertussis, lpeciem but great ar- because In the desired part of the interior there is a par- va gate in the middle of the fa&a edam arcua- tc ta, from the sides near the foundation the other two? small? gate? they are, which in-
it is brought into two other smaller ships, which one? flint completely collapsed? , as I eat col- lapfa is part of the arch and wall of the palace. cc I really didn't want to put any effort into it to be carried away, fed my piety to her he outlined feagraphicè with every dili- cc nation, and in a square shape, which cc you will see here naturally depi&am. Per- a git Valla? us Neighbor to a quefla the fabric of monflrano un luogo pieno di rouine
che dicono pur gli Hebrews, che foffe il lago de i Leoni ò luo- go give tenerli le fiere, doVe fa gittato Da- nothing io le ho tutte by coffe a little foundation infomma, per le hiflorie Perfìane fap- I'll be sure to mention that one source, che camefu affai grande, e magni- no, no è miraViglia, che haVeffe molte a remarkable fabric, che hoggi chefono total mentally diflrutte, è molto difìcile à poter co- nofere che cofa fifoffero Andammo poi più in là à Veder la Mefchita di Soliman Pàc, che efabrica di Morifatta di mattoni antichi, con qualche garbo, ma piccola, e turning un pco per quelle campagne, ol- through the storm of Rouine che. I found the fparfe in qua ir in là, di fabrica simile à quella di Babel, of raw bricks made of reeds my anchor le rouine della muraglia della cit- tà, chef Vede effer fiata moltogrande, e fi con Tower of Babel Lib. II. more Chapter Xl. -conofcono anchor i-wall laughed eat in Monticelli di terra, 6r mattoni, che con con- turning around surrounded fpatio very much grande di quelle campagne, tanto da quella banda del fumé, doVe noi eravamo, che e Soliman Tue, which ed the fabric of the Moors SeclXlh Faota from the ancient sides? when-" I will give beauty, let it be small; per- walking these fields, the most-" those we find will be scraped off a la riva Orientale, quanto dall' altra, fperfi, whose fabric is not of the ver- a che il fumé came from shooting in my house from the factory of 'Babel, from raw milk' city) oVero alle due città, fruitful di- and with small canes, we also saw rude ceVa di Copra, fepur ali He did not run away by altrafrada, come say some pae fiani, a i which is by nature ignorant I give little faith E la città, comunque fojfe, chiara co- è, che fa principale, e not ordinary
perche così dimoftrano lejue rottine, e 1fitto Sopra river I found the walls too made of good brick, walled with bitumen Instead of kicking it
come fi fcriVe, cheffero those of the walls of Semiramide (which the true truth that was brought to Diodorus ba confirm) de which Mattonipur col ra mcenium civijatis, hence the animation We were able to turn it very badly yes, and the red walls are still different as if they were cut into small pieces sides who continuously surrounds They are the greatest of these of the plains, both on this side of the river, where we were, which was the eastern bank from the other side, so as the middle stream flow into the city or better in-" both cities three times, as I said before, ni-" it may have flowed through the animal channel, so that in-" some say colse, for whom, however, bitumen attached
according to my folio not much ignorance of the same do not say, from there I will enter with one breath I give faith. la molto benfervati con cottonia, cofa che And the city was made manifest, which-" più di quattro Volte ha fatto Veder diVerfi "every life was olirò, the most important and not" tell those who are ignorant, that they do not j vulgar fuiffe, because they demonstrate that che coffee made le noftre curiofità Veduto j his rubbish born Next to me-" che haVemmo tutte quefte cofee returning I also came to the walls from good sides I'm in a boat e tirandola i barcaiuoli contro groups, cemented with good bitumen lo-" acqua con la corda, tornammo indietro Ver- for Baghdad
I sheltered from that beast fiotto la medefima Villa Kierd Haggì Cur- di, doVe haVeVamo alloggiato la fiera pre- yielding that is: Next they show the liane fabric a place full of rubbish, they say Jews fuiife foffam lions
or lo- when you bring the animals to be detained, in which de- He was Daniel; I, on the other hand, think less of it I lead truthfully; and because from the hiftories Make sure we make it fuiife civitas Ctephiphontes, which when he was, of the great and magnificent, no wonder. tvidere must be fuiffe there are many buildings of great importance, which are indeed the source of minino deftruóta, it is very difficult to di- to know what they were. Then the others we went forward to see the fan
with lime such as will be fcribuntur fuiffe in of the walls of Semiramis dori fupra addutli the Words confirm: J ex which sides with bitumen, however adhering, according to my custom, to some I took it and carried it with me in the city ftà best protected goffypio, for which pter jaepiù of most of these raw in- they laughed at the tail, not knowing the tail of noftra curio. All these vi-" let's get back into the boat, with which anautisope of the heart will I face the river" After protracted, we returned to Bagdad
we spent the night in the same place in the village of IQerd Haggì Curdi, where noóte pr-" we had been retired. He continues ValLeus, a city called Hella which was undoubtedly one of those cities bus, which the banks of the Euphrates Sentirà-
I'm afraid A T H A N A We have given them a lot of money to build them; no ipfàm, fèd after the Jeculis from the ruin The city was built by veterans; where mention He makes the beautiful Eechiel let us hear his words. Dimorammo in Hella tutto 'lgiorno fre- quenteper Vederla well, ty in poche parole dirò à V. S. che èfunata Hella [opra Eu- brother meta di qua, e la metà di là, e da una parte alV altrafiipaffia per un ponte -di bar- che, come quei di Baghdad. , ma le barche, quando io le ho Vedute, non erano più di Ven- you four, faith well in time di aquagroffia Vene bifiognaVa più. Le cafe, fon pur co- me quelle di Baghdad, fabricate di buoni mattoni Vecchii, ma bafiififime, che non han- no fé non il primo piano al terreno, out of all hanno giardino con quantita dì alberi di Va- ni frutti, e fopra tutto palme in such a co- pia, from the chest high, digran long from covering, per dir così, co ra- my tutte le cafe, quando fi Vede la città di lontano, non pare di Veder una citta, ma una folta felva di dattili, che certo in quel- le plain, from the bottom of that river I got out of the pantry Vaga à Vedere. E città honeftamentegrande, ha dentro un Caftello piccolo, ma competent fearing for chance fopra 7fiume, cafe affai buo- don't some beautiful fabric, made with architecture, ma troppo furi Vi rifiede un Sangiacco, è fottopo- fioaWaficia from Baghdad Fra Igiardini Vene fono alcuni gallanti con agrimu e fil miligalanterie, eat one, that I did not see, che è di certe donne, figliuole di un 'Baficia dead I do not become a notable fabric, nor Relics of Antiquity, all Via Fi. può cre- dere, che anche in ancient times tutto quel around the Euphrates from such a Neighbor Babylonia, inhabitedo e facilente può effiere che Hella dalle fiefi- fe rouine% di Babilonia in quel luogo nafcefi- Fe. E mi fu mentioned in Hella, maper la little intelligence, che io ho in fin hora del- I did not know the Arabic language be at all hours don't therefore I did not go to Vederlo since when dopo di effierne partido, ho fiaputo meglio Klrcheri mi è difipiaciuto afiti di non effierVi andato, eSecìlW, not F haVer Veduto, that is, che Vicino ad ììnea giornata, per altra Via diVerfa, da quelle che io deci, fi Vede infili hoggi la fe- poultura of Ezekiel the Prophet dovebene fipeffo Vanno molti Hebrews by diVotion
ò Chabor, eat the hoggi I say Arab nominato dalla fiacra frittura nel- le Vifioni di lui, ilqual river la Mefbpotamia give one grand e famofa fountains there from the raised poi in the long body, final Mente Verfio quefle parti Viene à metter nel Euphrates. It was in the Vero quefla cofa molto worthy of Vederfi, so much by Ezekiel, che fu figranVrofieta, quanto perche nel Mar- tirologio fi dice, con
by authority, eat me Credo di fianto Epiphanio che V ha fcritto, che Ezechiel fu fepellito nel fepolcro di Sem
from Arphaxad, the progenitor of brahamo, che è unagrande antichità, ma in fiomma my displeasure ò traficuragine che foffe, miprivò di queflo gufilo. Veduto del reflo che hebbi ogni cofia, e notato quanto my parVe not
miei la matina di November al tardi parti di Hella, e la fiera andai à sleepire nel medefiimo luogo chiamato Biz-ferchàn
dove haVeVamo pur' lodged nell andare This is in Latin They are here. He spent the whole day fruitful- cc wall in the city of Hellas to test her we would finish
and in short tell you cam, and sent her to Euphrates the middle interfluent, and the bridge fca- joined the lighthouse
I could see them, but they did not escape a mere twenty-four, he uses the river at a high length many are needed. they are a soldier of Baghdad, get out" from good old sides, fed hum-" limit
height of hair following" the first plane of the earth, and always" They have adjuncts with the most trees of various fruits, my palm trees in such abundance, and thus" Tower of Babel Lib. IL
CapXl. of the nobles, such as height, length, length rent, in some way cooperate with branches covered everything. When city )j is drawn from afar, does not provide Ipeci- it was of the city fèd of the palm tree
that lane in these plain fields, ?? ta this delightful stream but little. This city that is great, fortified on the inside with a small and then around these places the Retinus is discharged
into the Euphrates. I did this at all
it had been worthless, tara because of Ee-u the same, who was such a Prophet, as because it is said in the Martyrology, from the auto- rite, as I believe, S. Epibanius, who He cried when Hezekiah was thrown in the beautiful Senti Arpbaxadi Abraham's descendants: where? lane is in-", ) cartel, led wide strong to the stream. the antiquity of the wood. I said the truth, leu"; my misfortune, my negligence, ere built? , the fruitful fields of architecture deprive me maybe" jj creation? , led too dark? .
A certain San- jacket, and is BalTa loved? Baghdad ndcnfi. Some are enjoying themselves among the gardens apples, lemons, oranges, etc jjdeliciis, one of which I saw fpeótan- theme to some women, some daughters more Balte the dead yThe building of any one I had seen noted all the rest where? they had been worthy of the town, in the morning of the day vy November ctus fum Hi'là velperi spent the night
I went to the same place called fercbàn, where we had also had fun with a we will go there. And where is this light? of priests 'Bd- no light of importance, nor remains? an- ì I was afraid to tell the bylon fabric; sure tiquity, however, is credible, once upon a time I tè fané thence to conclude the poflum, so all this region around Euphrates ta tara of innumerable multitudes tem, and therefore neighboring Babylonia, fuif- le populofiflimam, easy can be done tuit, as Hello, in this place from 55iibus (BabylonU brought the rise of hell. It was also said to me in the city Hella, what to half way? days from the same city, fed by a different road from it I had been unglued
and today beauty Eechiel Property? ; led because then you have not yet passed with the protection of the inhabited earth as well Sennaar, then Mesopotamia, then uni- I speak all that land to the Gulf Terfic, where the Euphrates great water The bulk of the rum was rolled into that feih, so that it was scarcely paf. go forward, where they do not re- tufted seasons and cities wounds All therefore to Thou Grifique shore, cultivated was in the cities towns, towers, villages
so that either I was an expert in the Arabic language, of course that the land of Babylonia, and all the way to the Gulf I did not understand that they had passed, and therefore I did not go I went to see it; then really when I had gone
better understanding Verficum verlùs Aultrum, verfus Bo- extending the charge into Mesopotamia no city could be called undeserved I was very sorry, because I didn't go there rite Or from the mouth of Vetri à Valle
5jrim I have seen a beautiful word. I am the curious explorer of all things How frequent are most of the fudai I remember hearing: for there he says: E ben True, che It was built in Baghdad, eat your 55pamejuldemfluminisc70r, le altre terre Vicine da good bricks jrbor, as the modern Arabs call it, the ephod from Ancient Babylonia e dalle nominami" à Sacra Scriptura in vill- 'tre fabriche, cb They were others 'bora in quefti Who is this Prophet? : which originates in the river unfortunately nel quale, benché non fi Vedono Ve- there in Mefopotamia from the great and famous alcune refiate on foot of the walls as-eL [fi no }uee Poce
ce apprejfo oh He increases himself with desire by a long line
place A T H A N A Chapter XI. luogo chefi cavi, by storm fi troica per tutto quantitagrande di mattoni buoni di muraglie antiche, donde e nata nafavola, chefi conta hoggidifra Mori che queflo paefefoffe tanto hahitato}che una VoU I was lost in Bagdad ritrovato in Baffora città fopra mare nel Seno Pertico, far away from Bagdad
giornate, fin doìe dicono che foffe andato faitandofempre di tetto in tetto quefla con- tinuata quantity di rouinefotto land in tut- le paefe della province di Babylonia, so much so, and so much so, so much so in mine of the river, come anche un piccolo ramo cana let him pull Euphrates, che appreffo à Ba- gadat Viene à metterfi nel Tigre, that is:
Indeed, he is from Veruni, he has been to Bagdad. , faithfully constructed, as other neighboring lands, from the good and ancient sides of Babylonia of the old, and of other fabrics, as much they were in those regions, in which, as so that no cracks appear on the wall j, rum rest, nifi a few ilia, of which
I Klrcheri I am eager for a bus, nevertheless ra, wherever it is dug, wherever two days' journey round about, in-" everywhere there is an impressive supply of bricks of goods and ancient walls whence was born the fable, which today among It is told to the Moors that the region brought He was frequented by the inhabitants, as other-" when AmirTus the rooster in Baghdad de-" no one was found in the city of Baphora-" you near the shore of the sea Sinus Terfici, (Baghdado to days journeys: eoufque they say that he went forward from roof to roof This continues" the amount of waste in the land is unknown
beyond, and on this side, and in the midst of the two ilio-" of the rivers, like a small stream phBaghdadum Fé evolved into the Tigris. But nifce already premiflìs, already in order of son- We will proceed with Noah's gefta. CHAPTER XII. Genealogy of Noah and Japheth Cham, Feel children Thee is the rise of Phaleg, and the division of tongues and nations. C. XII. The rise Phaleg V I take refuge language rum A few other reasons de- show a division indeed I want a lot of tongue twisters the birth of Vhaleg (which and believe us mus) true, it is not done for that reason in the year after the flood in the quarter dragefìmo contigiffe, as they think He- brai, which was a fertile year for ipfos We longed for Vhaleg's life. For let it be true it is what Euphebius brings in his Chro- nici at the beginning, B. Hieronymus in Ofea chap. S. Auguflinm book of Gvit. of God chap. which are almost all done other donors ecclesiastical, of course ISLembrod fuilìe him, whom the Gentile He called Belum, and the same king row for sixty-five years both Babylon and Ni? in the year of whose reign Hermes was born barn I have no doubt in the preceding years to the flood, to the division of tongues years of the reign should be added
Beli, Nini, will be neceffary po- Nete, Abraham was born in the year Poft flood which manifested will be made of the Sacred Scriptures, from which Genef chap. XI. Verfiio up to where defcri- the road to the rise of Abraha near the count in this annexed table exprerTum, col- they are only bound for the year If you let us make those who think Abraham born juyuvfjf. Tower of Babel Lib. IL
born in the year of his father's life more than a hundred and twenty years are bound Catnan's generation you, indeed, he was born in the year Tbare then cenfênt
you will find from the flood life: Pbaleg as is evident from the Table at the rise of the smaller length. limit Chronological. Therefore he does not see mom, no less than years Another thing to be taken from the former on the contrary bringing language division rum fall into the east of 'Pbaleg, poffe af- in the opinion of the confcqui neceffe. Namfi to bear a very firm argument, let us put the division of languages (which: far from doubting, when (Baby- lon was built) contigiffe in iplo or- tu Tbaleg, who, as it is collected instead of Genef. He was born in the following year strange, because in this polished way, caffe it is more probable and more re- chronology of these times giam, published by the most reliable authors so, to infer completely, by no means flood (past the generation of Cai- poffe to be reconciled with the text? so- nan that as well as from it is certain that the Holy Scriptures rim to be found Therefore to prove in no way do we want what ma- gna: fame: author, man otherwise in expen- the denda of the ancient times of wood reason We will be accurate Itbr. in Geneva whether bring not du- he bit, saying, no poffe to be brought the reason which was concluded or even probably demonstrate di- I could not become a vivifier of tongues, when Tbakg was born, in which case taflìs, as it happens, memory: lapfù, it seems (not to gnaw there, since ipfè in several places preferably libr. XV. in Geneva whether 6j lib. whether approves and receives com- the function which we have quoted, these themes pore hiftoria
bringing Nem- brod the same effe with him, whom gen- they called Belum, and the same from the di- years in the reign of the living tongues (Babylon, where was the beginning of his kingdom, as it is said in Geneva chap. X Verf. i. And tm born in the year of his reign who immediately fucceffered ch- it is Nembrod. From which I proceeded
the division of languages in the first year my life: V. balcg fecetur ipfùm He was born in Brabant, years old Vbakg, that which is false, dignified fei potet from Geneva chap. XI. Verf. phew that at where Pbalegd rose from the rise bram Nini which relate to two opinions we say, that it is true to believe mouse, recently reported by us, commu- nor the confènfù of these doctrines the hiftoria of Nembrod, which he was the same as himself, how we will also verify below, that he reigned years. bamo, who was born in the year of Ninus, who immediately I want to prediote Nembrod it is called regnaffe, it is fatal ri id, which from the beginning of this work we prophesied: that is to say, the division in the year after the flood con- tigiffe, which year in our tables with In the year of his life: Pbaleg happened. And this polite opinion, Torniello tefte, many pha- which we used to say was born from the other two
lathe they are to be shunned, and the tempest of these rum hiftoria from the ethnic, and likewise delivered to the ecclesiastical scribes, and tested very well with annals bus will be found to match, so that I like in the prefente especially the table bre- He will be able to test it quickly and easily. Let it be eaten line division the curse of nations and peoples long life: Vbaleg, that is years pfius, but the flood of mukis ratio- to them, which you bring from one side to the other you will find, we have confirmed, which policies tis de r, e ipfà must be said. When au- theme of the conflict of the state and Tur- ris, which was the nearest cause of division Tbare of Father clearly col- languages, in the first year of Tbara di- him ATHANASIUS Klrcheri Years Chronographic table AnJo from the flood to the time of Abraham. Did Noah get drunk while drinking wine? Maybe years old
Arphaxad begat Carnath inch. whether Maybe years Caitian begat Sale inch. whether Maybe years Sale begat Heber inch. whether Poles years
-Voé'dicitur genuifle JomthHn an Maybe years old Heber begat Pbaleg inch. whether Maybe years Pbaleg begat Rbett inch. whether Pole years
Faclaeftiinguarum, and I divide the nations, or Nmbrod reigns, who was in Beltu in Babylon, or Maybe years old Noah is brought to the mififle Jomthun in Et ha, an. Maybe years Life di- Kingdom Kingdom Monarch Kingdom of God in the rain Kem-
Kingdom of sfc. we. j in Ktmlee.
Arphaxad and Nembrod, who are St go to the dead in the end Ninus reigns in BabyIon's inch. whether Maybe years old Nje dies at the end, or Maybe years
Nmm Monarchirminchoat Affyriorum, an PhAleg fubfineman dies. Nacbor Tbare's father dies. whether Maybe years
Abraham is born in whether Maybe years old j King of the Afyria dies fub fin. whether Semtramis reigns in Nmive, and Sarai's miciiux Chaldita inch. whether Maybe years old The queen of the Ajfyrios was dectfiìt. Zamets reigns in Ajfyria inch. whether Luftter is believed by some to have been born. Pole years
Cbodorlahomor guarded the Sodomites. Maybe years
years Tower of Babel Lib. II.
To agree that they have sinned crime Setl. lll of the mind Confufe damns better discord lin- See Vrofper. Water of Calling the Gentiles Qtiomeào it has been
he retorts as if from confusion ipià and human difpcrfione in the universe there the lands, quietejufdcmconfufionis erTeótus, let us say. ufia And the first time married was this jufan'is"' punishment inflicted on the architect iftis, what language Divine grace: goodness and grace
mjesta aunt? Where? for the punishment given by the parent the older one wants to be exploited in the children less hearing the days of the courts, what end of the bus
end with mutilation and wounds, end furious with the destruction of laborious work, and therefore with the end of rebuking and complaining la drive to obey, novali which colonies to establish, which? color nia
they left willingly; or various exiles and deportations, become unsolicited But their fault was vanity. for they do not tell the probabilities of fate, who this childishness of destruction from fault they intend to purify it, as will be seen at Tofiatum For they knew it a long time ago from the common parent Noah of the gods obtained, in order to pro- they would be successful in winning. And so in the mo- they were wrong, and in fault, where? from long- na ifta city tower GOD not gra- he grew up in that mill. If, then, this Wasn't the fault vanity? pus the leaves of vanity and helplessness? glory the will of God, accepted, in- with firmness, GOD not fìiftentante contabefeit If you are weak? mental elevation? was it not to be expiated by confusion? , not ever glorious ifti jaetare they can do the work that is imperfect and let them rest together. Because at home ruling it is in the language, said Au- Guftinus, there is damned profaneness, so that it is not would be understood as ordering the bumble bee, who did not want to in- to understand, to obey what God commanded.
God built this fortress in front of him God, were not the enemies to be disarmed Is it not from the fortress of ipfa to demand, and unholy coiu? the oath of hearts, the tongues of different tongues Jione caftiganda ì Whence Claudius Ma- River Victor: double? For Tbilo in the book on confusion of tongues, while I was in hiftoria more generally he tries to turn tropology
he denies confusion any contigiffe language rum, fed the division. For the Hebrew where? it was already, in He finished with a greeting, another: what? then for the first time born? font, they were not confused, before what they do Do I take refuge in tongues? there was no fear among men because of the the pen of emerging languages riety, as Pererius likes? Is it con- fufio languages five mixing idio- was mature, while in the same work di- the people of the vedic families rent, and suddenly changing languages, lest a firm dialogue should be effected, in quo Hebr&A) Graca, Latina, Germanica Polish words are mixed and confused were to be found, some of which are fictitious if they understood it, no one would ever understand it so that no one could understand the Voice of his neighbor I was that is, to understand each other He will not succeed, as Lyranus also seems.
Do I not also divide the tongues again? élè is said, since for reason not the opposite of divergent languages Let them divide man
who uses language are they Tofta explains how it is done Chapter II. Geneva from which Tererius I mean l briefly clothed the first divinity in to all oblivion of families native? language? , that is, Hcbraide before? in Heber and Tbaleg, in which those remains broad, then infernal infufa- that a new language for all families j as Marno had once been infused, j of his sister, I came to have her no less they should be ready, when it was done nurse la&e didiciflent. Minifterium
I will continue Athanasius Kircher I will continue to kill the angels In light of his works, it is more credible, for neither Seti-Ili. bit Origen, their failure, who ilio- Sea US they were going to bring back the peoples to whom I addressed that prayer of God: Come let's defend let's confuse ty there Un- I want them. Not yet, Go, de- cut and confound, so as to prefer understood working angels
to offer went Cajetarws St. too Epibaniws this multiplication of languages wine of infpiration femel and again attri- oxen, nor human lane to be clothed potiffe, any complete idiom, of those also, that of Adam's tongue when we said Abulenfi, it is easy to understand he can do more. But listen to Claud. Marius the matter of composing an elegant poem
He said that they were intent on the work and the mass of leVan you Minds stunned fubjetla obliVio pri fortify Intraty unknown was imperfect lin- Do the work crackle? flow cejfante, ma- to carry Cuntlantesfocios, fedVocem no one back No who tries in vain Hissing or bursting with the roar of an an- hell So I work with the wrong fufeeptum mind the matter Tejìituitfruftrata manm; jam nemopro- pink No one is afraid, whom everyone in- he understands, he adds Agglomerates of fibs and foci I really cared. And while the diVifa hujm kinship is perishing y A nation is made by the tongue, they are cleansed by the sword anyone And then they ask Vario to trust him race: her Human induftria paulatimcom they prepared Nor again, what he says Language makes a nation; and that in the same re- he says; No one is close, no one will quits For it is a common passion let your tongues be fruitful to the Lord fuiffe distributed not from languages fam- iias And this teaches Mofès cumagitde to the sons of Japheth From twice, he says, they will be divided the influx of nations in the regions you have been and who is fertile in language and family you are not in the nations, as he says, no fecund tongues, fèd also fe- when families So also about to the children Cham he said These are flit Cha. m in cogna- languages and generations rifque You have been among the nations. the same how do you know the sons of the fruitful skills and languages, and not only while he divides the tongues. No one can do that would make a father, how it will work any family to unite? however fa- It is easy to explain the Poet: No pa- trem is done, to the extent that he will fail his father, fèd to the extent that the same language is vociferous to be joined What is further to God Let's get confused their language there, as not let him hear I was close to every one of you: It would be a shame to translate it from clay; who speaks the language let him complain, as no one else he would understand it. For that will not be effected seventy-two languages, fifty gin thousands of languages introduce and that will be effective not for multiplying of men, and cities, fed to to be drawn from each other by faith. Mind therefore it is Mofis, fad eff, as one and whoever does not understand them all, as He wanted others to understand others, for example who were of the same family
not others let them understand who have been separated. by fa- then to be lost? Are they a language? , as I was decimated Thus Marius the Poet, in whose Poem the between them there would remain a conflict between them The game is not a probable fate, an unknown language imperfection fubiiffe, perfidious indeed, I am suffocated by him, whose wickedness language? fervent communication is effected. It follows that something about the number of lin- Kumm
let's say Whom shall we write-%Mw- how TOWER C. Xll. cpam comes out, fed mmD Augustine St. Epibanius
elsewhere SS. Fathers from the number of families Noè à Mofe com- B A B E L L B. IL
before 'tywyiTctg KttycLKcuov'foq SetlAlì, had called And he repeats the same in verse where de they collect those mentioned. And so di- j of the tribe of Cham he places the leaders3i, de ftir- cit Augustinus: Exfumilia Japheth, On the fifteenth day of Shem, they watched over Japheth fifteen From the descendants of Cham, one sr five, where the whole number is the same, thirty Exflirpe Sem, Vigiliti fettem. In the partials are not the same. NCC also exit smoke, then, he said, all descended from to the three sons of Noah seventy-three you can help us, which will be demonstrated at will seventy two nations then I'm sorry is gathered, not men. What faith de- to show promises
executed chap. in the case where there is only one fu- ife the language of Heber sr Phaleg
although languages are omitted take were not, because of the time eVentu marked. Because in his days the earth divide I will be But before that place he says Vroptera therefore of many sons no they are remembered because they were born to other nations They begin by making, but they make nations I fear one language, material from which the corrupted fe- fifty-two were born. For He- braa, as we said, remains intact, novx born? they are; fèd is likewise, and I said-and, for one born score two See also Chron. Alexius a tree Greek-Latin that with Epi the fan blows. Addam Vrofperum Aquitanicum,
who also elegantly coiffure of this con- nicus. the proliferation and multiplication of languages it depicts Already Vero, he said, ran they propagated you by human growth, as ipfa the number of mortals of the former they will not Islam which is different, with he would flourish with plications, and be fruitful The sons of Japheth were numbered eight, of two j the height of the tion He would desire the mass of heaven commemorating only those who were born? And when the sons of Ham are named four Only those who were born out of three are added. And when I was called Sem, he was called the two only greed is covered; numquidca- tftjzìin- at the end of the tori they remain
It's gone this guas fra- believe Fed nations for which put on the day
to tarry digm ejjent, they did not throw because they were born to other nations were due Yes, D. Auguftinus. Enfi acknowledges the same number two books I. CbronoL Grucce, where enumera- to all the provinces of the sons of Noah or JLX) defiled? (p? ) iSfofiwovfet JVo. And Epiphanius, therefore UH, says Tur- They build the rim or Babylon. But divide no money from the child that mill difpli- cooked, and therefore, having lost their tongues, He made eighty two of one for the people by the number which was discovered at that time, whence Meropes called by Vocis diVifione. Be careful you don't fuiffe then snow two and seventy men, i. e. so numerous heads of families, whom few bring about immoderate conflict, as my He was able to restrain this indolence divine censer juftity which all to him the speech of the peoples, known confounding the cem with fictitious cations, ginta, and with the variety of two languages Judit, to go among the different Voices operating his harmony was so great, so full of effort the machine would be rolled, and living in the world rare the inhabitants of the evil congregation the tuna would become different. Finally, in the same the number of most all the ancients unt. See Vererius, who in this fen- I would also try Hieronymus, Amobius, And he cites Origen, to whom Bede speaks of fex so much Marianus Scotus, and others were added. they are most likely Cbronicon of Alexandria whether because he enumerates them all. For the rest against this number PercrJuS4 doubts move Vererim in part from di (pa- in the number of the Greeks, and is found in Latin codes. Thanks for the Latins are three perfons, five fa they exceed by thousands, and by adding Canaan
also A T H A N A even four Partly because I didn't toothless
by meriting, why do you diverge from them in their tongues have had, since fathers could not they want to have families
snow through children That fi fathers fèorfim a children rent, what languages fìias fèorfim and they had families, according to the number given will be added Sem, Cbam Japbetb, rum to fex feptuaginta erefeet. In part, finally, because some children rum Shem, Cham "japbetb no son five to be cut off In the progeny of Ja pbetb five; in Cbam two; in Sem four are allowed, of which nothing certain be said poflìt, and the only mold nation, or none, and many produ- and with the Gentiles they differed in their tongues what And the fic number here is very strong. it will be varied and rendered uncertain. defend Nevertheless seventy two m The number of un- pine trees to be retained see coin tur, who has no light in Mojìs nar- based on the reason to the families of the three sons of Noah, by language with families dittinoti but so many families perish ancient more recently Dolores They recognized fifty-two jets I was easily relieved they seem to be a wolf. Indeed, we will say that it is different to perish the number in the Hebrews, grsecif that books; led of those who are added to Gmcis neither languages, nor families you will be different, and therefore from Mofe in this place the prxtermirTos second job to be able to be satisfied: we will say fathers indeed could not have fa- thousands, snow through the children, yet I could to have through others from those who in the text de- cap. are re-encumbered, and through them diver- let's build families. The third is not improbably refpon- it is given, four irto quafi fègregated from foreigners and exceptional throat tongues fèd prxter commu- those whom they retained, Klrcheri Where are the gifts given to you? in the families of Sellili. they were found at the beginning of faith, as a clay mo- they are able to give nits, and to what extent free the family to move there. That Tormellus also said. At worst we say those to whom unattributed children they are born lias, to whom are the tongues? and therefore the special di- ftin&ion I wouldn't do it I'm sorry This is the mind of D. Auguflini, whose ver- We reported a little before. With this confusion of tongues and put on by the disturbance of men
No ceptrt ajfurgunt towers, not weapons Juventus He exercises, portufes, or defends them in war They prepare safe, hang the work interrupted, and umbite Huge walls, and leveled the machine heat But by name the tower, not the forest by the Architects reli&am, divinely fed even dissected by most of the ancients to teach Josephus refers to the gods from the Sibyl The tower was overturned by storms, And let everyone loose their tongues
in the third book of the runes of the Sibyllines here are read, among other things: With the blasts, or "Venti magnani fublime fibe"
renters They threw down the tower, and made a suit Among them, and therefore the city of Babylon they lack But little fell to Tunislinguteque they were I heard the voices of DiVerfis, the earth forward The whole was filled with diVijts kings. How many feiliet colonies Nembrodus auppi- ce, as it may be said, in those who are fertile, Epipba-Pipha" no, too At the beginning Vanaris says, GOD do not divide the tongues of men whence the Meropes were born, fed Tur- the rim is also overturned by the force of the winds. Abydenus, who was the ruler of the Medes Abydc fcripfit, in Euphebius of the preparation he does not have a naec. They are the first to be praised earth-born, with strength and greatness nos. Tower of Babel LlB. II. C. XII. affuiffc of the gods, by which the body of the Tower was destroyed! that to Semiramis, which: began Sect. lll acid And below in the same ha: c ex the city (Babel incredible size Eupolemon The city, he says, Babylon j hundreds and the size of the tour it had been the first founded by them, because of the flood but that rim is by no means deeper they say, whom all the giants have con- he took, fed another marvelously adorned, in let it be, fparfos through the universal earth, the temple, which (Belo conlècrabat, in- than the tower which they surrendered to the gods clufitus, as from Herodotus Clio a little before thin
decide the conenffa And hence perhaps Tertullia- we reported With the temple of Bel nus cpntra Praxean: So the son of EH, who in the city of Babel à Semiramis liana at the beginning he judged, the tower of the fuperbifsi the hands were removed, and the tongue was difperdeus. Is this a very strong font, this? if they are not confirmed by Mofe; a nation was built, certainly as the Tower of Babel removed from Babylon, in that city ftruótam fuiffe, ex to those who: in prayer I said with my teeth, it is clear to you what I did wrong one of them, whom I brought back, her! dung I'm going to burn, as it seemed, very It follows that of the diiperfion morta tyfr'fr He exorcises the improbable and improbable, We do not go to different countries the rest of them were eagerly taken up. When ì random access or unforgettable, (and from the yet these are the snows of Mofe feire non pò- I distributed to them the divine will, ex they will grow In whose fcript is the tan j in the first year of Thaleg is understood This then they are represented by the work of deftitif-! but in time it led to confusion, by the hindrance of tongues. of the Iguarum, where every one of us and GOD They caught it, asked Dominusoc-! took that land of the chief families beware, and do not faint from your thoughts, they took possession of the foot when you were, as Joseph says nor do they complete them with work; of course it's snowing phus
Jabeth Europe, and where: those from with my foot, he did and he did. Afta adjeéta font; Cham Jfricam riam; Let the rest of Afia, near the gene- real distribution, than the same instead we have reported it from Josephus. That this Cm Nera- Where did you stay, why Nembrod, who With Babylon you can destroy the rest of the nations with Babylon I flowed back. fubfti tit, when you were popular, inter- Miffum did not reintegrate the work
fpondeo with Pererius, or fuifife work greater than that of so few men he will accomplish them, or rather if the prefect's prodigy that indolence deterred them
not the birds the fuiffe work is imperfect, some heavy fine to the gods rent VacafTe, however, the aeckfication for almost a hundred years that is to say instead of the exactions from the register shall be understood. Spinofàm further barbarous terms difputationenx, in great part cor- broken, useful, God favoring, com- it will hang For there are many places of destruction preferably with the Prophets they cannot receive any light
to whom to avoid, the order of families a Mofe was drunk, and Ipfbrum of princes Let us be the names of those named by him. CHAPTER XIII B in the year of the division of the language candos in the years of the reign of Nembrod and the difcelfion of the nations of the ter- Babylon and the neighboring cities, fuper ra Sennaar, in the year I say from! the language of the nation those re- be seasoned and after the flood mannered and then also foper others about infusing, we believe that auppi the neighbors are occupied? as in prayer Athanasius Kircher We have verified the teeth of the century. I went on Ne? nbrod, who is the same as as a place next we have taught
as they deliver Euphebius in Doronicus, B. August book of GVit. God's chapter others. But who was the man? Nembrod
fate Paul previous ones right places tell us it was During the same time also believe it is the bile of other languages also ccepifle to reign princes (not yet Tyn tyrannicè as Nembrod) fua in the nation, and in clay regions, to which pri- They arrived at the village of Mo. I think au- theme not quite them from Babylonia for it is reasonable to remove the cowards to believe before the nearest, than re- in particular lands to those nations fiiifle cults Not much though Poles, too heavy to decline Ipius Nembrod the tyrant, who did not content to command Babylon
other times also to inflame the neighboring nations, and He was trying to escape violently, We believe that the customer will receive it for a long time. Qua- in fact, just as I wanted in the first Go Ecclefia, that first accomplishment which it is done Hieroglyphics Cbrifti faithful, in caulàfuit, utilifì adfidem they would spread wide propaganda in
various provinces of the world, to which then fcripfìt B. Peter the first fua epiphto- lam, of course, Tilechs arrivals differ fwnis Pontus, Cappadocix, Afia? BitbynU: so the priests in those times the wines of providence are made, so that tyranny I did not invade Iphius Nembrod, divine to the organization, to the people fill also other parts of the world, very far removed from the former ones you In which the various kingdoms rexift, there is no doubt precisely but with the Egyptians, and likewise with The Sicyonians in Greece, of whom something vum
let us touch on the following places from Eufebw. Dwarves of the kingdom of Italy, that Jo. Shiny riotously Oligli, he puts ccepiffigentiqua-M. iit years before Nembrod first Re- the gem of Babylon is now unreasonable, so as to appear like a figment. Decun- but you are the priests of those times rum kingdoms does no other theme the kingdom of Babylon was destroyed so none was greater than him. For not many to poft, that is, in the times of Nini, who He transferred his faith to Affyriam, and so on now it grew, as the Monarchy Affyrio- took the name of rum. Why do we with which, indeed, certain Eth- of the enemy kingdoms beginnings you were places we must not neglect to mention
runtamen fucceflívam Ferious Kings, only of this, of other mo- of narcissists, whose Sacred Scripture remembers, we will record here. From this time also, gy-
as Tomiellus breathed, and not before, fcàgùu you are indeed a dynasty, ièu potentate of the Egyptians, for it is certain from the diótis, and the unbreakable ipfiusmet of the Sacred In the Scriptures, before the division Do not divide the nations of the tongues nor any other regions of the world beyond Armenia! Babylonia, lo- ca to the East close to them, from ho- minibus poft flood fuiffe inhabited you, as we have said, want a division of languages But we in Oedipus Tom. I. also mentioned the dynasty We have made a great deal of the Egyptians, too before the flood, that is not auspicious, because so let us fantasize, fed fertile JEgyptio- Rum, Arab Manetbon's opinion, where and my mind about dynasties Ledor will find his son open. How- good job Jo Shiny Ub. V. of the date of the chapter And you were the first dynasty of the Egyptians but from the beginning of the reign of Nembrod and Cbaldcw- rum Hence it seems that the affection rere, lex ten those former dynasties, which Euphebim in Cbromco he puts prarcef. I am the birth of or it was many times little
TOWER fewer, or very short. Ete-
as is evident in the tables, I suppose years of the reign of Nem brod
fire (Beli, who was the first King of the Cbaldaeus, and forty-two kingdoms Nini, who died immediately Belo
for Abraham was born in the fourth year in the third year of the reign of Nini. Un- de fequitur non potuiffe fìngulas dy- Naftias fepetem years expleviffe For as already a little before exTorniello tradi- we believe that the dynasty of the Egyptians in the pus of the building of the Tower they happened how the text of St. verify the scriptures it will take ì When all that time B E L Li B. IL
a human nut in the land of Sennaar, 8c vi- SeSì ni the ashes of Miphopotamia assembled in places has been i Or how Cbam, LbusSc Before that. Nembrod
who made the Tower all they were parents, the need to transfer the Un- the grace of Egypt, the dynasty of Egypt in Egypt to eat to support they could since no one then living mo extra Babylonia five Aphyria re- he could have perished
To say therefore we are forced those the desire of Chami in Jfcgypt, where? love him He contacted you, his arrival, through his son Mefraim, the first infititutus fuiffe. But dehifee quam rufiflimè actuvidein l. Tom. Oedipus JEgyptiaci book where by We were fully prepared for everything CHAPTER XIV. Chus, your offspring, and whether it was true in black color C. XIV. VERUM because Chus first yS- thief, five black fuiffe credi- there, perhaps, there is a flood, for It is uncertain whether there were AEtbiopes before
I would like to inquire at this point whether the snow of his descendants was black, or perhaps all of them
those born black flint, they came from the sea? And for the first time indeed it is certain that it cannot be proved. faith, when rather the opposite appears
for Nembrod the son of Chus ha- bitaffe with propafia fua in the land of Sen- naar, this is, in (Babylonia, fèu Cbal- Yes, where we have never read the inhabitants. black faith That it is true, indeed is finished
the blackening of her skin not fèmper neceffarò from the propagation nor general, so that a black man does not poff I will not beget a black son, as already Chus did not become black I will go to all his lusts. Are all the blacks from Ipfb Chus it is not easy to define, since it seems to be indeed common opinion, that dark skin color from the dryness of the place, and the shelter of the leaves nor, as it is produced from some other; for we see commonly in dry
the warmest of the world with black stripes, or at least threats to be found; on the other hand more and more frigid, very the whites But contrary to this belief they are given, where? Abraham Ortelius reports on the table; fourth? I went to the theater tariolo, that is to say, in the hotter quibuf ion
I will give places, in the same parallel, and mnesM with the same firmament of heaven
elsewhere white men, as in America; in some places of a fawn color, as in rum regions
to use in the kingdom of the Congo, Guinea, ca? terifqué in some African countries, use nomotapa, Sofala y qui to the river wzdhabitant In the Abyssinians, however, gno not all black, fèd fubfufci co straps, not reaching the heart of Africa ce fìib equinoctial conftituto im- in hot heat, they are born Rurlùs in Malabar East India Athanasius Kircher century also in the black kingdom, as Calecutbi ce- book store Why in America gerrimì the colonists were not reprimanded, even if hot and cold to the equator in these regions, it seems strange to anyone poflìt At last he confounds those who Lunt Auftrales Creine. , SicilU, HtfpajiU what parts, of a white color, with ta- But it is certain that the same will be done no less equi noótiali di (tare, in noftro this he- the Arotic mifphaerio, where co diftet from the same Equator mum iWuàFricx promontory, which It is called the head of Boncefpei, whose habitation The Lufitans are weaving black things who in those voyages to the East Indies they frequented them! those the edges are forced to transfer
to use a little We have spoken before of the inhabitants of Monomotapa. All of which three fates they seem to have been collected in a small manner. first the closeness of the leaves and the dryness of the earth indeed, you are running very fast appetite to preserve
or even increase the blackness of the skin, preferably tim in the face, and not at all in the other parts covered, as we see every day done in rufticis, and others
who at the time to dwell a long time in the rays of the leaves their children but not to fufficate to produce men naturally the blacks
otherwise in all the heat the most black men, that is not the case they prove what has been said above. Whence cer- I think too much, just as well Torniellus in this place born in the body the origin of blackness is not human according to the quality of the regions, fed from to come from another caufa, of course the first rio à ftirpe, fèu generatione fàngui- not even parents: cuiegojunxerimnatu the ral of any place nor with refpe&u to folem. Nice Second very probable e in Chus
yes that human natures black pore first of all rushes births born it is done in ipfo Sect. lll Chus, tametfì he in the land of Sennaar, or Rather, he is believed to have been born in Armenia, where? he does not tolerate excessive use of leaves. And this was done by divine providence let's say, not even for the sake of the father of impiety, and grandmother? curse since it appears from the falsehoods
Iplum Chus was born long before Fuiffe, than his father Cbam in the premium fuse the Noetic curse of impiety He will receive his son Canaan
fed some I learned another thing about the body of God. That be nearer to the black ravens of Chus we would like to trace
we can say to happen I could or from a vehicle I am walking What is the darkest thing? in ipfopùtL at the time of conception
in flocks Jacob accidiffe we read Ge? ief. chap. erf. LycoUbenes- fané in fuo de Vrodigùs libro, feemina? Which one does he remember? uterus while in the pi&ura of the three Kings
how he kept a poster in his room, Gaffarem, the blackest of the three
an- when it comes to intense imagery trusting in the power of the nation, close your eyes and he would wonder at you in his blackest face, soon she gave birth to a child in her womb. He was very close to JEtbiopi. So it happens I can tell from a sudden situation with a vehement motherly appetite for the matter the blackest? , which he did not want to fulfill it shines when ipfùm Chus geftabat in the womb, as we see happen in the mu- liers, where? spotted fetus unt, in a certain way expressing in ipfà the desired color spot? , than Grzci y Picam Latini, Italian la Vo- glia, they say, of which in Arte magneticay about the magnetism of a woman's imagination look at the air with curiosity. For lighter caufà some skin par you, v. g. black and unseemly can do, just as ipfà do- cet experience, of course it seems that like TOWER of the same vehement caufe
tan- how much more humors truly and able to alter, the whole pro- the color of the skin while it could infect naturally. don't B A B E L Li B. II.
nor what to give to the nations of SetiMI. because of the frankincense, which thence everywhere to be carried it is very common known These between Sinum Verficum Ara- what they call Mark's bosom, this which must seem incongruous, that that is, they inhabited Arabia; though jfltra eauja proceeding at times from Cbus was black, and his wife was white. fint other black children others are white, some but the fuffuci, since we see sometimes children are more fond of their father, sometimes to the mother, and sometimes, as it were from what, to both Finally, the third It is hard to say that flliis Cfots, rest rant nigri or lubfufci, perhaps more let them choose a region to live in you are very hot and sticky, as if nature of tears: more accommodating, whenever (as well as to others the most frequent contigiffe of tibinus it is) from their own faiths the police are, ad Schabca five Sabai, who from the son of Scbaba gma fell, more to the East tem near the Bay of Vergìcum: Sabean ve- ro, who from Sheba the son of Chm. , more to the West falling, and to the sea they are believed to be inhabited by a bicti. Of Sa- For the riches and odors of the bteos, see the walls of Melarti book III. chap. Strabo book although that too, from gold
spices and with precious gems, which Re- gina Saba to Solomon, as we have in fyz. chap. X Verf. i. He x. Varalipom c. 9. o. Hevila the other the son of Cbus, HeviUos bevila He brought forth those who were on the border of the Ifmaelites otherwise, the temper of the Amalekites was not very difficult first habitaffe colli- they migrated to you And from here it was done we go, from Gen. chap. Verf. Where I cry out that all J is called Ifmaèlitas percuflìffe Amalecitas the foot is believed to have originated from Cbus, but not the same scourge of the world, Fed in divers today, warm of course fice, imbued with black color there But whether, what we have said and cidiffe ipfi Cbus, if I ever wanted anyone happened to another as soon as possible that someone with a white parent is black becomes ge- rely on! s, neither to deny nor to affirm we dare: for it is true that the lemel ac- God forbid I eat other it seems to happen that what happened in fact, incomprehensible then we have If indeed that other conti- giiTet, it is certain that not all JEtbiopes de pofteritate Cbus delcen- It is difficult to affirm. fJfo But now to the sons of Iphius Cbus
rumchus niamus, of whom Tormellus in the fiiis An- It is thus reasoned with the nails, which we have known Saba11 let us make a fief-bearer by faith. Sa- Chus. fi- This is the first among the Cbus, from Hevila until you come to Sur. need but he was desirous of many I will transfer you to Getulia, where? was rub the inner region, we will be coherent, It is true that Joseph and Blessed Jerome, of course Hevius Effe Getulos. Of Sabatba, the third son of Cbus exìfTe a-Sabatha. they join Sabatbeos, they think they are Arabia the first law inlèdilfe. Indeed, of that the metropolis of the region Vtolemceo tefte, eo- grabbU book chap. The Sabbath diet is: then they are believed to be transferred to Africamy and near Meroen the clear Nile lam inhabitaffe, and therefore àjofe- pbo B. Hieronymus called Aftabaros. Oegma also, the fourth son of Cbus begat Egmeos, who also in Arabia 'chu8. The happy habitafife will be eaten with Sabatba he and Sabiàs, of whom he is a relative, that EecbUcap. Verf. no. between ne- the gothiaters of Tire bringing spices, la- and the other Saba, who in Hebrew is more powerful than precious feet and gold, they are joined ha is said to be the son of %egmz, the origin of the name Who- Athanasius Kircher Some think that God wants her country incoluiffe, which Carmarita eli- let it be Of course, the second son of Dadan what (for the first name Saba leu Schaba has already been told) Diffe the Dedanaos, whom we fuil Thee our neighbours Idunitfk, can be thrown from Jerem. chap. Verf
Eecb. chap. Verfi$ where advancing against the Jews mceam, they seem to have suffered the same defeat Dedanais to do the work. And Eecb. chap. Verfi the sons of Dedan are called merchants of Tyre, among other nations not far from Tyre, they seem dear. Why did some think those fuilTe the first worshipers of IìliusSyrU r Gionisquam Vtolemxw libr. V. fìias Geo- SeSì. lll. grabia cap j. He calls Valmirina. Joseph Phus Se B. Hieron Dadaiuws say effe Western JEtlnopts, that as true becomes
must be followed later through the pores of Afta traje&o Man%ubro, transfifTe in the Africans, and to the west reach such a jEtbiopia. And those who were Sabatbacbà from Sabathaca Sabatbaca the fifth He was descended from the son of Cbus, Chas. and where they dwelt, uncertain it is since as he says B. Hieronymus,
wildebeest Sabatbacba, gradually ancient to lose words, and now for let them have the old ones, ignorant ones. CHAPTER Of the kingdom of Nembrod and his impiety and why Belus be called cxv. of Chus The other son of Nembrod Cbus Se Cbami's nephew was written The sacred feorlum speaks as St. I increased book of CiVit. God, ch. or because he can pre-named children and grandchildren or whether he was born to Iphius Cbus (which is more credible) because of its eminence then the whaling of the whale mouths For about ipfb di- cited: Ipfe ccapit effe powerful in the earth: Self I want a few: And it was the beginning of the kingdom its Babylon ur Arach Achad a? Callanne, in the land of Sennaar: Genef. chap. X. verf io From which words we see three I was gathered there at the gate to the hiftoria noftra belonging The first is the years of the reign Nembrod should be counted from the building the Babylonian experience given, of course, the division of language rum and the division of nations into various of the earth regions, for then ceiTave runt to build a city, says Genef. chapter xi. Verf. Why is nettle necessary? Nembrod then may reign for a little while compiled in BabyIon. Another is when he says, Babylon The other mentioned cities are the land of Sennaar fuilTe the beginning of his kingdom, tacitly in- say, the lust of the nettle also reigned in many other cities: for the text they have The third is the Scripture Sacred to the kingdom of no other he remembers you, in a way ipfùm Nembrod fuilTe first who re- he began to know Narri, as the Hebrew text he has -dm ym wdSod And the beginning of his reign was between Babel 6r Arach Achad Jr. Cha- lanne And so I say his kingdom Of course Nembrod was its king did he deny Tametfi poft flood cre-
It is hard to imagine those princes who they were as heads of various nations and of languages, to rule them in the cities à le seasoned at the same time as the re- gnabat in the land of Sennaar ipfè Nembrod. f kfd Let us speak the truth about the King, not quaranme fi of the natural Prince, fed as also fmlu' it is commonly accepted, for the Tyrant, who by force occupying foreign cities cares nothing else the snow through the right and the wrong to increase his power, beyond doubt let us say that Nembrod first fu- iiTe All Babel Lib. IL
ife a tyrant King, who reigned if they worshiped a God whom they erred be true in this world, road For Ippè with effet powerful And so he did an injury to God and to man he began to infuse power into the world! GOD, he took away the worship due to him; among the peoples, I have nothing to do with faith but to man, because he exercise them. And first of all He oppressed him, and deceived him into error the minion seized those who were faeces He introduced Ifdorusetlib. XlV. Etymolo- they remained in the land of Shinar: of course! wriicribitcundem Nembrod abiifTc in Babylon, himself in the other three states i in and there Terfas to worship the fire mentioned a little before, Achad, docuiffe, Dwarves all (says) to them racb Cbalanne. for whom interpret! parties Skilled worship
who ipforum Un- turB. Hieronymus Edeffam, Nifibini that is, it is called GOD. But Seleucia, or certainly Ctephiphon, of whom; Verphas call him Mythra, that is La- fupra Then, not content with these, he j foot on fire, five the Sun in. I. Tom. he invaded the fearful nations, and conquered them
Oedipus, ch. of Mythra Perfarum goddess ftremò even more remote peoples, for example
We have taught each of these facts. Terfas and perhaps also Aphyrios, so that not from all of them fòlum fúper most cities, fèd fúper also various provinces and languages The great King and the tyrant had escaped. how far with truth they went astray Annius and his affections, saying, Neni- brodmzgis ftuduifTe of peace and religion and so (says St. Ifidorus book VII. j of the gods, what wealth? , and therefore etymologies) called there is no j breathed by the gods, iùbitò not compa- hxoàtfuiinterpretatur tyrant j because of the former ruiffe. But this thought of Anna- He seized the ipfe of all for we have refuted it elsewhere. Moved Nembrod rannidim And this same before also af- B. Hieron in the traditions of He- in Geneva It is therefore necessary to Nembrod is not a foal fuiffe strong vi- with the burdens, he fed also with the boldness of his wits, and It can be searched in this place, whether Nembrod became the first King, whom light j feu (the ethnic people called Bel; whether whom Gentile calls N'inumi or was different from iftis? Surely that Berofus from greedy for domination
complete Annoius reports Nembrod Fuiffe quenter of him whom the profane will call the beginning menes, a cruel man, scribes, and from the same father nose, impious and rapacious, as ex (Beli, and Nini's grandfather, I am wrong. But Gè- rardus Mercdtor in his Chronology mat Nembrod faiffe Ninum, and he refused prediota (Berofi Anniani I want to saying that no way poffe fubfifte-; when Ippè fellfiftìmam embraced: of course his body type so Hence it is that I want to imitate drivers who holds all things divine and human do not pervert and violate the law there, the grace of reigning, from his name, tyrants, not called kings run That infernal JSfembrod has been i rem, to almost all the principal idololatra&gentesfibifubditasadido-j ribus contrariarli See Pererius who so that they should not fail, he added lib. Commentaries of those who were m Ge Hugh of St. Folklore was attached in the year nefnum. 6. his arguments are very difficult. tatiombus Geneva where he said Nembrod he laughed For what Mercator says they are overwhelming others with the bulk of his body and his strength which of Nembrod the ecclesiastics will write Uoloh began to exercise dominion by violence, higher, Jofeplums Of course that iria pi he led men to idolatry; He was a very warlike man, but ungodly the mouse
hit the or triumvirate, as fire and the Sun, which is fiery! and the first who began to rule by force hmm Athanasius Kircher to conquer cities, fibi filibdita to do, other things of this kind, with these, which of Nino are held in the Gentiles lyum hiftorii, to meet: to repound can the latter much more to pile up when the same authors of these things concerning 'Belo' they came out Market sentiment ri proves to be contradicted by authority B. Hieron cap. II. Ofece, Euphe- two in the Chronicle. Of which two they openly bring the elders, Belum furile pri mum King AJfyrwrum in Babylon and most of the Rabbis call him Nembrod riyw ruw two sk torn Sjd jatf nvioj He lives in Nineveh. Add to these that the same Euphe- bius lib. 1X on evangelical preparation c. 4 not far from the beginning, reports from Alexander Hiftoricus Eupolemus, first in Ba- bylone Belum regnarle Therefore it was the same with Nembrod, whom or if written Sacred first of all re- gnale is woven in Babylonia. When there in this wind, then the builders, then etc. clefiaftici, then also profane, anti- and the most writers to meet force they are given, we also gladly do the same make we must embrace then, especially when I was already in Obelisk Vamphilio, Saturnum Belum Se Nem- brod, one and the same effect mouse Whence he becomes ready, Nembrod Cut Bei Careful Nembrod from the Gentiles it is said ""7W 'Well, it doesn't seem to have been thoroughly explored. Abstain from impure intercourse, at the end of which give He used crime. See Guy Fa- briciumin Dizionario Syro-Chaldaico ad Eocene? For etfi is not impro- Babil, as some have thought, ife binomial
and indeed at first when he was born Brod because of the strength of the body, but from lust the more easily a man began to exercise tyranny a nest, and it is said that it is because of the lust Sya Bel seems to be more bilious, his first name being Nem-SeSl. lll. Brod was buried by his own father, who directly gives (which sometimes even to the evils of the conception advancing
he named son there Nembrod, by what he foresaw will differ, from him the tyranny in the world to be introduced, as de some of the other priests of this kind I did not share with my father ctum it is For as straight BaalHattu rime says, Nimrod was called Baal, in that he first inspires the worship of God rum which they call CD'byn Baalim. who- what happens: that verily à light the language of gen- Bel was brought to him at will, which among the Syrians, the Hebrews, and the rest of the East such, Bel, lord, that is, in all things it will be the mastery. Is that why it's his first time? name, Nembrod, among the Hebrews then; But the word belis in uni- spread even by nationality there is a light? Certainly, as if the name was impolite, ficapud The Syrian Baltis name of Venus it was that the lady of Love was effected, as in Genealogy of the Gods. I. Tom. Oedipus it was made Which, indeed, according to some to him the name of the city founded by him Bell becomes unfaithful, without approving re put, with the etymon of the city of Babel a confusion of tongues entered into the fuiffe the unanimous opinion of the interpreters he was born But let us not tempt ourselves with useless reasonings. pus we're going to re- its gni from built Babylon, leu à di- with the vivification of tongues to be effed up; for these two at about the same time the fact is that you have made it clear from the gates of Geneva can be collected Evidently from the flood no two hundred and fifty the years of the reign of Nembrod five Belis we will begin to earn Of the Kingdom Im- See Him perish in Noah's Ark from us published ca- Tower of Babel Lib. IL CHAPTER
SeSìllt Let's go to that, whence di- The smoke came, presumably to the children Sem, to regions à fingulis first worshiped and denominated. the first who are named among the Jews in the books of the gods was Helam, to which he craves different and denominated they are people
From Eiam iuos profani scribes Elimeos et- at first but the Clephiaphites call them where- Scmi Eia-
mix it up rum also nt mention Aclorum ch. II. it is broken dt' erf- Hos ajunt incoluiffe her Per- Jidis part, where? more towards me I will laugh The same
They had a king named Codorlabomor under which, and to the Sodomitic matter running out of the field, it was covered with a hairpin they held for twelve years, to have Vxras] "tis poftmodum exiffe who soon that, for a monarchy, that universal re- faith gion, from iplomm name, because of it was
of whom, who were born in it, the flow, they called the same delivers OiD. Sus Josephus I Antiqua, ch. and from others A horse: he was already taken by two men almost to the east the city of Sufan
let it be he will go; and from Daniel, ch. Cheap also it will not be able to be gathered where we read Sufan caftram (which then was fedes Kings of Verficomm, as is clear in the beginning the books of Hefter) fuiffe in the region of Helam. Muvfi. Another son of Shem was to whom he 'Jelundm. those of the people of the Aphyrians have been propagated, of their region Aphyria, now corrupt term Aimia diet eli: , Afta majo- rice province, where? once the borders of the hife was contained
from the Northern Arme for the most part by Occafa Mefopota mitf fìnibus, mid TygridefluVw, cin- it was: at noon he had Sufiana
and from the Middle East, as Vtole teaches fu, e book chap. And as Torniellus wills, Affyria ab Jerufal, north of the North, five grad to them, from which it was very different from the province of Syrue, where? italicè So- provinces, including Hierofolymittcam con- held the country, like Lombardy Italy diameter But one thing I will tell you it was the same as of whom it is said Geneva chap. X Verf. there Of that land (id it is from Sennaar, where? Babylonia) egref- Of these is Affiir, who built ISLiniV
with many it is controversial, for us yet it seems to be abfblutè refpondè po t fé, fuifTe diverfum. For sure; of all, he met Ninive and Nino. faith founded denominated Of course NAf Ninus, whom in the place quoted in the Scripture Sa-(Jj era, because of the stems mentioned below, it is called byion AJfur, was the son of Bel, that is the son of IffT Brod, who had reigned in the land of Sennaar t0 and he was not of the tribe of Sam fed from the progeny Cbam, nor nabita bat when you want Sem in Aphyria
fed when you desire Cbam in the land of Sennaar: and to God the Scripture says emphatically, the king of Nineveh came out of the land of Sen. naar, that is from his own province, of the Nembrod family at the time of the di- of living languages, and transfifTe in Affy- riam, and there you will settle Ninevem (con- for Ninevem was founded in Aphyria. ) In any case, it would seem stupid to say about AJfur son of Shem, which is efTet from the ground Sennaar For, as Torniellus rectè indeed, it had not been his country own fed common to all, 8c from her, not ipfè fèd all other founders of other cities ex- they had gone, with the exception of the family of Nembrod, where? He remained there, and propterea It was marked as if something were to be played of Nino, which is not, to sing about hunger lia fìia, he remained in the land of Sennaar, fèd going out from there he established Nineveh, this it is Athanasius Kircher e nlortuo in$abylo)ie, 'vp& In the Aphyrias, he tranftulerit the fire there of his kingdom, in a city built by faith, and Cut nì- denominated Nintve. It is said that Ni- is it true? and St Bring it out of the young father, who Nembrod Se ap- was driven, it was also binomial you, as B. Hieronymus seems, He himself was St. Cyril in the place of Geneva. cited; or because he wants to deviàos Affyrios, Jjfur nun- he wanted to be drunk, just as Scipio under the yoke of Jfris
or, finally, because it crushes the Scriptures With the sacred appellation Jjfur, hgnihca- re confueviffe the King of Jjfyriorum-, quo- by whatever name he is called. Italian we are going to Piai. Verf. Indeed AfTur comes with to them And Ephaias chapter X spring From AfTur the rod of my fury
to this is to ask for help to the king of the Jaffrii, and elsewhere nonfeme], And this agreement may be understood, that it is a day. From that land he is exhumed Jjfur, who built Ninevem, that is that King of the Jjfyrios, who founded 2W- no
as he who calls by his proper name Ninus Although not even in it is apt to be said, Jjfur the son of Shem because of the impious offspring of Cbami, he tyrannized himself the nest of Nembrod
difcerTifte from the earth Sennaar, where all the sons of Noah con- they were grouped together in neighboring Mephopotamy in the region of the Euphrates River, or as a they want to go more to Tgrim, then invited by the richness of the place whatever kind of city I finally settled ficafTe; how many years Ninus after the death of his father Nembrod, as if from Jjfur hiio Sem, other colonies dis occupied, abandoned bi Jyphyria, in the most ample form of Himself reduced to the greatest extent, stink I was the ruler of the Jjfur, that is, the king of the Jjfyrios, who is not the emperor threatened Arphaxad Thirdly the son of Semi was Jrpbaxad, S" semi. I was born two years after the flood tus, with which JofephmSc B. Hieronpnus, Setl. lll. he in Antiquitatibusy here in Hebrews lo- cis, they found the produrle Cbaldxos. That it is true, it must once have Chalda I was lost from (Babylonia, how di- ximo obtigiffe to the sons of Nembrod, but in earlier times Babylonia they are extitiffe in Cbaldoea. Lathe Ar- feendiffe them
who wants flint: whence the name Sujtana Province received, who among the Cbaldcta Terfi- dem it is said to be greedy. Of what kind? Cainan the son of Arphaxad, and the son of Saleh Cainan, the people let them come forth, unknown it is And of Heber the son of Sale tell Hebrxos through the line of Vbaleg, fate therefore it is gathered from Gen. chap. XI. Verf. and to this end of the chapter. And below pro- we drink to the Hebrews, I abipio Heber denominated fuiffe Porrò Hebneos and he lived until the time of Abraham faith in CbakUa, he could gather from Geneva. dith chap. V. Verf. Himself And besides it is certain that Tbare, who was Heber, who was said to be of lust, came with He was the son of Abraham, the son of another I was there in the city of Aran in Mesopotamia mine Haran, hve Charam, Gen. chap. XII. Verf. Where he does not want much, he also comes Nacbor, the other brother of Abraham, to whom when that city was called Nacbor to which it may take many years brabam miht fervum fiium, as there he would take a wife I was the son of Ifaac, whom very much it is clear to the reader chap. Geneva p puft He For in the same place Nacbor had begotten Melba's wife o6to hlios, from %oma concubine fúa four, whose names are repeated Geneva chap. erf Among whom I was named Camuel, the father of the Syrians. Un- It appears from the inhabitants of Nacbor do not replevifTe part of Mefopo- fed also SyrU. But Abraham from the city of Haran, with Lotb's nephew I am thee, he came and dwelt in the land of Cbeu Iaan Tower of Babel Lib. II.
grandson Jacob, who may then and he went to Egypt, and thence however many times they returned his planting in the land of Canaan, where he I will begin in the name of the people of Ifraditi and The Jews flourished for a very long time, as gum Of Heber also by the same line Neam Tbaleg bus propagati font GrecU popu- li, ahi people, of course for two the sons of Lotb, Moab is quick and Ammon, Moabite Ammonite. And about Ifmaèle, the son of Abraham. from Hagar the handmaid, fmaèlite Agareni, Also of Midian pa- of the Midianites, and many others, who bre- I was soon caught in the beginning. Ge- at On Efau also, cp. i8cEdom, the brother of the said Jacob to betray And of Amalek, the son of Elipba son, malecite, and from other sons of Ziw, other people li, as may be gathered from Gen. chapter lerf. i$. and to the end of the chapter, which smoke confusion entangled they are For it does not take long, languages, so also this re- distributions, confusion It is indeed a certificate. Indeed in organized by the desire to rule and dominate do, who at first, as we have said, excelled
in Nembrody the children were then adopted, and to others, through almost everything He pierced countless wars Caufàs aroused, and many peoples from with their own feathers, to other com- forced to migrate, and transported colonies he taught to destroy, to destroy cities, other to complicate, to transfer kingdoms, to change languages Jfcere, little by little the futility of introducing re confùetudines, termi- of the provinces to change us, and to those regions, nor to states and localities to impose threats, and to say in one word, crush everything so that shortly mx of that worldwide distribution, few broken
rum touch They remained very fast. And-SeBlLh for the land of Sennaar will soon be certain Succeed 'Babylonia was called fuiffe, &cBa-ttri? orumt Bylon Kings of the kingdom faith in AJfymsgnJum! - tranftuliffe, and thereafter for a long time- re appellation voluiffe Aphyrios, and a small earth from Cbananuels, who were of the tribe of Cbam I was busy with my work and I was long, so that to the Hebrews, who derant, rediifTe, and changed frequently I will sometimes mine the land of Ifra'el VaUftin, call the earth fanbla as well. Also the name of the land Cbam AEgypt I received you in later times bus univerfàs near Auftrales Afiat re- where? before the sons of Shem? had been filled with bits and pieces, by Ale- Alexander the Great, and the Greeks who came from Japbetb they had come out, fuiffe occupied and poffefl become, and grace in them the tongue And almost the same thing happened. along the shores of North Africa, indeed, in all Egypt, as ta- men to the sons of Cbam first inhabited fé, we are already fed up. He turned away but in Veloponnef, which is part of Greece is now commonly known in Italian as Morea pata, to which it was once first settled We have said that we have reached our children, and we are thirsty Japbetb conftat soon floruiffe Lacecbt monios, who Spartan five Spartans di- cuntur, zLycurgus ipavkev Spartiata, they received the laws as may be seen in Ejuk demLycurgiVita apud Tlutarcbum. These for from Abraham's wife, and quenter de Sem prodiiffe, openly tradi- there Maccab. chap. XII. Verf. at a favorite book XII. Anticipated chap. J. XIII chap. They are called cousins, feu de kinship of the Jews. But too long gum effet, countless others names of peoples, languages, re- gnomes and provinces and cities make changes. It compares a reader of old books and tablets of geographers and princes, with modern and more recent ones, in- will not come without the names of the cities and pro- Athanasius Kircher provinces and kingdoms ipforum terms, sometimes fat also the proffus fuiffe unchanged. And sometimes of several small kingdoms province and fa&a eff fewer larger; sometimes true and contrary rio great kingdoms
and hugely for SV&III. you will win into several you are rich in small things
so that (how much to this fpe&atj the whole almost the world the face may be different this, and in future times upset two to vary CHAPTER Vtrum quodomopojl the confusion of tongues the Hebrew language he remained at home. because Heher Thaleg retain your first language They are given, they also bring down some li, iplbs not fuiffe ipfius xdification participants; otherwise, they say, the same ipfà penalty of change of language they would eat But we must pay attention to this that Heber Vhaleg, tametfi retained let them be seen in the language of the former, and wheresoever only punished in that another idiom ta, to inherit, they did not understand, that ta- man He did not bring them money, did he? fear, because she is divine in the building I will notice you, not properly in pfa was polished by the change of languages, (for who has one more than al- he speaks in an idiom, he brings none pcenam) fèd in it, that with the rest they will not be able to understand by diflcing the trust execution per- they would not be able to whistle, which remembers tis Heber Se Tbaleg, ne dummolefti- am any, without bringing a great power he was wearing a suit. For they rejoiced videnscecelitus hindered, how-
pfi they were severely repulsed and now finally to be fulfilled (they would they would not) the divine twin, of gen- different types of housing throughout the world tes defiminada, that ipfi, done Noah, then the father of all, so much so they had wished, especially when she brought deferment of advice ipfis infuper, to vi- to be held, and to be rejected by the ungodly strong, very comfortable effect. And this is commonly believed to be why the first one is the most ancient of all as well as the most noble expression in Heber he was betrayed. Whence he also gathers St. Augustus book of the citizen of God, ch.
which was evidently tamed in the eloquence because not expreflùm it is done, not obfcurè yet he may be able to propel it, but some pious fuiffe a race of men, when from the wicked Bylonia was founded. Although Hebrews lia can be brought to the caufà, why rather ìQ'hSmI Heber through the line of Vhaleg, propagating Abraham,
helm God's election among the people of the fibi peculia-h'j the matter of which Chriftus was about to speak and the flesh, as the same first o-T not of the patriarchs and prophets in the hands of the lecter, as St. Augustine reports. lo- with the next cited Whose cousin it is that that language, not in every pro- Genie ipfius Heber dirfufà eft, fed inea folum, which line reoted to bravado, to whom the repromiffiones of Chriftus they were to be done in the future. Nor ip(k Abra- He could speak the same language to everyone to transfer the children and those who were hungry, Fed only in Ifaac and Jacob, and those who de patriots, of whom twelve tribes Ifra'èl arose, which the people of God they crushed the lion. Nor does it bother that Abraham was born in Chalaea, there that beyond the fifth year and then in the land of Chanaan he had lived, because he could nevertheless language from elders accepted by them T U R R CxVllAù at home happy it was to retain BABEL LlB. IL
Alix himself also tions outside proper touching It must be warned, however, to use it well He notes that the Hebrew language of Abuknfis In ancient times the dog was much more numerous than it is now becomes, more perfect and more fruitful. For from whence Hebnei went into captivity there are two, and foreign languages are admitted, in a certain way friend runt, or a large part of the adult they were afraid Where can the return of Baby- Ionia, it was necefary to conftitue, who read to the people the words which the Hebrews wrote clean warning and uncorrupted delivered had been they would interpret Why not? it's amazing at the time of Savior He- the Greek language was very soft and voca- filled with Syrian and Baldaic villages, as otherwise it is clear from the gospel. And ho- that day of the pure and ancient then they remanférin, where? in the law code they went away Whereby it is true and legitimate today the Hebrew language is very in- oops, and it seems to be missing obviously which is not affected by the legal effects of the law added porli t We also believe that B. Augustus book of CiVit. God, ch. not the terms lèd also lite- shave, and the Hebrew characters before the division Vbilo Judteus, because the discovery of li-Setl. lìh He gives the Hebrew lands to Abraham. Nor must it be proved that Eupo- regions habi-l lemus ScArtapanus in Euphebius book lX. on evangelical preparation, ch. about the middle of the story was crippled, namely I was the inventor of letters, eaf- which he first delivered to the Jews, from whom The neighbors took the bus
Vbomicibus Greci, fubaud per Cad? num y that the same J'em dediffe letters and therefore from ipfis I was called Mercury and for God attitude For these things other ways by ethnic writers riches should be found, to be completely rejected It seems like a fallacy. And completely holding while the Hebrew letters are almost from the iplo found at the beginning of the world, not from to think otherwise than from Adam most of all But what I gave him the characters of letters, in earlier times from Ephraim ruditiflìmo icriba some things have been im- changed; and then many things too
added that they had been punished, and noted she? , to which today the vowels change they use judgment for the majority of readers with ease; of hifee the like in the book will be most richly damaged. But that hxc about the transfer of families the fiend of tongues, commonly at lest they steal to whom indeed If you do not do anything, the snow is already great diomata through ipliim Heber and the poor I argue that languages and idioms his, fucceflìve to the people of Ifraèlitic men from lua confiifion in order reach him Why is it not to be received? let us reduce
ATHA- Athanasius Kircher è Societ. Jesus TOWER OF BABEL book T E R T S I V E PROGRESS INTO ATLANTIC POLYGLOSSUM Through certain prcelufions
about the variety of languages the most different kinds of idioms, which together with the idol- to steal into the world with the occafion of the primacy of con- The most important issue is the laundry. VjEFJTIUNCULJ. Offe I would like thee, lector us in the coach of Geneva's hiftoriae of the Tower BabyIonic's argument for the built-in almost unfolding re- rum multitude variety in three volumes were compiled rum first as well in three books diflint! m We are three and fertile they contain only the structure of the Tower, and other matters of the apojleri Nembrod both in Babylonia and- h ffyria y then in Egypt ge- exegesis of these But in the third book of the first volume, which Pro- the road to Atlas Polygloffus tnfcrìpjtmus, by prxlitjio- lest some (note ryo$f ct; on the origin of languages, the first- that the sources of idioms, and their rise, declination meanwhile total We have decided to use it. PRELIMINARY It swells from the preceding book before the destruction of the Tower the earth coward one's lips and the same fermon, and the language of all; out of line but the unity of this, with the help of God I'm talking about this kind of primordial ho- the wickedness of the god who avenges his faith
next to the builders text words: Come let's confuse there their language gna so impious of those people through? , and to obey this was the price meeting that is the result of guilt; for I use it correctly Divus Augustinus: how impe o. Augu- ranting dominatw in the language ejt so too ibid to be bound by commanding the bomb, who would not understand to obey God's command. This pa- that's all wear Athanasius Kircher's Tower of Babel Book III.
Vt&lu- doillaconfpiratiodifTolutafuit, cum Then they will be the most, the most I become everyone from him, which he did not understand to change the lesson for them with so many grains abfcedcret, nor le, no one with whom to speak! confirmed, and reasoned, and came you will be able to aggregate per speak languages nature: ipfi most Confentaneo, sprung up in the life of the nations, and perished in it I could not find it, either universal the earth: he made a face, painted: in preformed certain idioms, It pleased GOD, who did this by secret means, suppose that Nembrod took himself from the Babylonians He has worked incomprehensible to both of us. j rent from it like a lotto of tongues, For who it may be imagined here, ex the Baldaic, the fon with its offspring the Ionic Sotus I came suddenly cad of men {tornation, inexpedatum of the thing jurgh the wind There is no doubt that there were those who while they do not understand the neighbor's fermon, confuton thinking that they were deluded by faith, not by words, but ver- they would fight back with their hands and fists; from for the quarrels arose, while for the bitumen la- grind, bricks for cement, flacas for boats, iron tools for fee- no paleisj meats for heat, coffee they would reach out for the spoils, in indignation I turned, with which tricks, with which use For the sons of the intrument, the heads of the book are excellent dialed, Cbanaan the Vulcan language, alTftu and likewise the sons or grandsons or great-grandsons of Noah
are listed. For it is necessary to see a long time, and a sharp struggle in the populace The issue of the empire was to expand the language together with power and laws, and rurfùm strangers languages in steep contrast hand
fi- you will be he puffs But the angels not bad Cacone- some don't they could force her
unamlin so that therefore this prodi- come, that so many and so diffused the voice in joy burst forth with confusion, J bus hadenus cohabiting, mem-. mats amazing, and blasphemy aufùs, GOD the arm of one people, and the mind of the state he immediately struck as those who are against God they would express Good indeed the will the building to build it try to accepted a lot of work defeat co- were carried Caufe Caula? indeed, of which very varied change
of languages there many: lunt Divihon indeed universal, as one language for all the dead lyum gender common match years MDCC, and from the beginning re- for the expulsion of Babylon return to so many fermons dilcretes, I daresay Is there a God, as proved by history? mountain ftrant, reason easily detected. No- for the caulà appears suitable in the fun- dions, and in all the intelligence of man, why did they want people to know to be restored by the three years of Noah, dedicated works tested for some starches among iplbs
and so many names good bad change rium, and Ichilmate grace to deprive the vilfimo fefè of life? trade they could not, nor would they, end with the help and command of God, to men to bring about that defeat: of the ca? teris au- tem of nature, so endowed with soul as having experienced, what to say in regard to which? they have no access to the mind I was in the shape of a man, a snowman is it taken by The founder, therefore, and the maker of things, and the architect or with the nod of the fimplicus, or the works of angels
as Origmus is very cheap, he made Fermons the variety of human beings, as well as he speaks confused lip a? difi- of Babylon. But it is necessary
big fuilTe stem, for which reason God made us happy, and we chose the same a mouse, who does all things by word? power? produced, formed, to eflentper- fata, perhaps years, something mu- tare willed in the work longe pra? ftan- tiftìmo, in a man prepared to imagine neither Self-importance to God the parent
of all A T H A N A Vrdu- of all Let us hear then, what in I become On the fields of the Seminary they speak among the faithful encouraging each other to a huge pus to attack, and to be completed with all their strength, and with all their faculties bus: Come, they say, let us stir twice the cuntatum, and the Tower, the summit of which the name of the wild animal, before we? iiverfam the earth But why? Lord God had said in the beginning? which was his will? what confid what? what government? Grow up, he said, multiply and replenish the earth throw it away
Lord of the fishes of the sea with the flighty wings, animating universities a bus that mourns from the ground. And so on the flood repeats the same, and renews it Lord GencJislX raise your voice jr multiply, ingredtmini fuper Makdi- the earth, and fill it. But even if fn cha- Chanaan, the youngest son of Noah, iiaanfiiiumfùmmà insulting a parent iixcanfL fet y But Sem Japheth dishonored il- im- ]jus operauifTent, coelefti excited Noah, restorer of the human race He took the divine intention into the children, and pre- let it be in his mind, that fate befell them in advance this way: Cursed Chanaan, yér- lus ferVorum eritjratribus fuis blessed Elus Lord God Shem: becomes Chanaan his ferocity GOD expands Japheth, will be drunk Shem's tents: and it is done Chanaan his ferocity. To this fate, de- the reluctance of the overpowering God tur BabyIonic mass founders, thank you accounts, confilias, wills, help, making every effort to adver- I was perfect, lùpremam ra- tion of the divine will
word But they are in no way inconsistent with the constitution Lord of hosts, who infpi- cit, hears all, judges all, Mania governs in juftifllmi ways. What? for it is done in the hiftoria of Beati Mofìs? The Lord defends, to save the city, And the tower which the sons of Adam were building ty said: Behold, one of the people of Z? one I K'IRCHERI give your lips to all
and they took the bocface in fact, you were not disaffected from your thoughts nor should they complete that work. Come then, de-
let us burn and confound the Unguus there of them, that no one should hear the Voice I was close. And so the Lord divides them from that place to the uniVerfa land, and cefja- Veru? it to build a city O" ideino Vo cat its name is Babel, because there The Lord made them face to face rum regions; God, then, let us be united And we followed the judge of the universe
not by one man's speed, Fed of many, of all men, with the exception of a few severe punishments that one, the most worthy infli hit, and a huge preemption, in- the boldest, boldest con- He consumed inspiration, meanwhile using clemency in revenge my fast For Maxim does not strike down with lightning I meditated on the child and the wicked tru&ion: do not fear that the gap will be cut off
punishment orders: not earthquake overthrows: not ma- He broke the ground of stone and bitumen: He did not change the nature of that thing; fed tan then to reason, whose force is the most abundant, and every man's admirable works they know, even the seas and the air running, and penetrating into the orbs he threw in chains, chains, and baggage, as the faculty of perceiving judging things of every kind, and nis, and unique among all peoples, di- I'll just turn others are more important
others, on the other hand, are weaker rit To express one's thoughts and will tur viciflim, and are perceived Cete- rum fermo fufus, it was derived in multiple forms of speaking, and fin- gular dialects, so that the voices of the same rie compofìte is not the same for everyone fì- they mean Indeed, the Babylonians xdi- the makers of flint have begun the work averfànte D E O
fìniftroque aufoi- i. e
to convey: fèmpiterna junae the mark of damnation is imperfect them Tower of Babel Lib. III.
Vrdu-nibus in that part, in which the rest of the animals They are long in front of you they accomplish the things which lead to knowledge wise fspiritual nature? belong In which ju- t$dtmen j-Q infig-nitcr is made divine then aunt of God m
with the confusion of power then ingenuity, then in goodness '&juftitia. Because by rescuing the ability to men, to join together daughter, may God's judgments and wills be yours the reason used, as fi- He has punished many people with a heavy punishment. how meritorious they were, and the work of their hands I did not define the shape of the straight line, or transformed, i. e. into my the lowest part of man, the power of God declared to him that he was unmerciful, and re- medium, and mitigation, Sci- language He conceived a wide range of punishments. How much language
and then for iitboni polished in the language? com munjon? It's a fun experience: when nothing becomes more effective at winning ho- threats courtesy, arTability. Rur- fumvidemus filentio dirimi amicitiasp where? fempiterna? they were afraid that it would be In the old proverb there, which Amyclas mentions in silence perish And in another proverb they are called ho- threats obfùrdefòere in a foreign language Orators also fear God hope they exaggerate the issue, threatening the court
with whom there is no trade Apophtolus Tau- lus pronounced in Epiphtola before ad Corinthians, If not by the tongue eddderitis singing fermon, how in- be understood, what is said? for you will be in talking about the matter Tarn many kinds of Voices are in the world tst, none of these is dumb. Therefore, I will obey the power of the Voice, I will be to him who lo- the barbarian quits; tsr who speaks, in me barbarian It should not be overlooked fi- s Aug i. lentio also Aurelius Augustine Jews follower of God c jum? brings forth e. lib. of the city of God, speaking of the focal life: The world wants a city, or a city terrx, in which they place the third field tis bumaìue, beginning at home and from to the city, then to the world terree pro- by entering the Coming In the first language rum you divert a stranger's man from the borri
narri fi two fibimct inVicem jiant obVuim, nequepreterire, fedfimulefie somewhere necef- they are bound by a faith of which neither knows lin
the guarantor of another, easily changes the mother's breast even of a different kind, like those they ran both men, let them be fired. For when alienated where they vent
I didn't want to communicate between them.
'I'm sorry' they prevail, because of the joy of the diVerji-winesign languages. tatter it is of no use to confo ciandos homiJ"' Lest nature be so humble, as you like your man becomes a dog I am a foreigner. To whom Pliny is attributed speaking with a ufù voice: So much he said of which there is variety, not foreign to the foreign He became a man Vice Ca? terùmeapoena di- wine? juftity? so it is irrigated, that ani- the mouse has retained its resources
all tendencies, the power of understanding, reason- nem, memory, will, re- age there is also the ability to derive nem, to be sent abroad: they go together the organs of the voice, fermon's lung, la- tera mufculi artery, palate gut- but by forming the spirit, and as if in dividing the articles by a variety of words, the dilcrepanty of the fignifications infused with the wonders of God it is For which the Lord con- VuT a remedy. so that one speaks several languages, to be reconciled.
dis honiini guide more reason, than a new bus from from there grace
an unexhausted source Jafitate He gives and pours out many honors, as a middle-aged translator to rurfùs are joined
who Babylonia iftà confufìone longiflìmè leparati fue- rant; and that is convenient too it will be I can't do it registration, not so found as a human, rather than a divine function. Here reason Mofes is the source of all wisdom written of the prophets Hebrews not only interpreters reached they sent to the Greeks, fed for a long time previously divine interpreters They arrived at the Greeks as well to other barbarous nations, ho- every day books they read the fàcrofàncti of all rttatum A T H A N A Vrxlu- of all near nations languages I become That most divine office, or im- to ask, what else is there but to hate bestow wines, and perfect, and make war run with the rain of Babylon when, and the Giant? Indeed, Mejiias the expectation of the world's nations coming into the world
to restore mnias, and to reconcile all things, the fudes Grxcos, l(omans, Scitbasj and other po- the verfòs spirit would cling to the bond of the facri; and the nations united into one people lumfan&um, into one kingdom, citizens he would contract the state, the house, for the fibi by blood the language of the Greek race, and Ro- they excelled, with the language of the old He- brtforum on the altar of the cross for the universe MhuhlS made the world. When the cross, re- fito title, caufa registration in ca- var'iJìL put Lord Jefu Nazarene declared "Josm ù e um of all nations mother's father, exfpe&atum fervato- rem etc [as the monarch, and the smoke, be the eternal spirit, fanótifTim, best, ma- next door and the bridge; about which flowers
phonies clear prediction saying nuit Await me, says the Lord on the day of my return to the future, because my judgment, to gather the nations, t? my wrath, all my wrath, for in the fire of mine will be devoured every third: because then I will pay back the people's lips Boom, let's all call the Lord's name They put one shoulder on him. Porrò Domi- Christ promises Mark. create with his teeth in the name of Jesus, to speak there in new tongues He was filled with the great spirit of the fancii miflb in the midst of the disciples. For that matter the cats are fed to the Kings populoso- many languages and nations, who they would not build or capture Babylon You will give birth to kingdoms and empires
or they were plotting something, or machinating they were opposed to the power of God
Fed I R C H E R they would drag the whole world into a conference wine of religion catholic, and let them establish a living city, indeed God, whose foundation and head and the cornerstone, and the prince, is ipfè The Lord, the glory of the Lord, brought them down for that purpose: not bad hoes, trowels, straightedges, chests, irons; not with the sword, the hair, the sword, the old man's gun to, fed by the Spirit, fed by the division of things knowledge of the backbone
nia, fed by omnipotent virtues, fed by lin- expertise And so, to say the wonderful le, and should be seen as deserving of bet y formerly rude illiterate men nes, each in vernacular ferm they were very young
fiiibitò lo- quotes of all peoples, gen- with whom they were in favor the Gospels; and in the beginning Hieroglyphics, a city built on Mount Sion, as Ephaias and Micah preached, II. Christ announces the Son of God, then, and Juftia came to the lands
concept è Spirit fànóto, born from the virgin house of dead on the cross, and refùrrexiffe, and afcendiC faith in the heavens, whence the righteous judge will come devour and of the dead, and whom Ifraè political ecclefia He heard the preacher on Mount Sinai, the whole world as in Compendium of contracts in Jerusalem I am already clothed in true flesh He hears the preacher on Mount Zion apoftolos, with a great multitude, which He had flowed from the world, whether that he would listen to the ambassadors of Britain to his country ipfb rum, vernacular fermion different. Chriftian times work that admi-Mrw emo- with reason and stupidity the knowledge of languages convinces abundantly, an organ that is both useful and useless rium Conference of the Christian Republic vandas and amplifying, and gift and faith is not at all light efficiency That Apoftolus Vaulus in epi- Tower of BabelLib III.
VrAu- Epiphi. He teaches the Corinthians: Ecclefia peace and humanity What is it? I become but he confesses in the prayer of the fool dementia? what is the rage? iron, innu- praying in this manner: Veni[anele Spi- mere injurious to destruction rites, filled the hearts of the faithful, and your creation of the human race, become kindle the fire of love in them. Who by di-; we must say the truth, from Satan and evil The verity of the tongues of the nations to men driven by genius, borrowed gathered together the unity of the idea. That first to lose, and that because of the trivial things and above all it is to be asked of John's wishes back and forth
We have a reason efTe- from the codeft parent, from whom it proceeds, (Sbricerà of truly human works whatever right is called the title of good, and j celeftium; we have a firm do&rina is not to be despised, and in- 'things and reasons between us in moderation ftitutio, fèd must be added Let's talk about it, we have the language or ere, and diligent exercise, which: three an excellent man
ing- nium or medium, and not by nature I was completely immersed in this, then art, pra? - it is suitable; we have a pen, a pen, which paper? language? fermons vi- let them fill Let's compare them reception, other things, and exercise Let us receive your favor from God It will be completed in languages knowledge offered candidly
For CbriHus was as much as no one would believe before experience mints That the universe He did it abundantly for all all beare all rich all reeees, it must be paid to the son of God, who gave; the pontiffs, finally, all come together He was a genius, mind
stop nem, strength to bear the work, mnia, to say in one word. Ondeju We are not allowed to claim anything, however re&um ufùm
let us be faithful, like a son Mary the Virgin, PEI I lived, in which divinity bodily with a clear voice it will be preached everywhere among the nations, and known tus be apprehended by the fincerafide, &Tàn- étité, and omnibus of the Chriftian offices? charity is expressed as true knowledge of things is spread, so that Leant good? laws, that juftity may prevail, as He is a lover of love among men and I was the consort of the eternal kingdom
He is able to bring about the children of God, and as from him let us accept, he has only in his hopes. per- Is it so big? cause of confusion He does not deny anything, as already in this book, de the origin of the transmigration of nations, de the primacy of tongues} then of the language I'm sure, and a multitude of idioms, and variety, and of characters
and the origin of various alphabets, and the discovery of the registration, that which par let's do the same thing. God is coming to the fibers of the noftris, whose proper is You are afraid to make children's children. section ATHANASIUS Klrcheri Chapter I. S E C T Of inclination, of corruption, himself in the meantime of languages CHAPTER T)e occalonibiM, and hit the multiplicity of caufars with what language the flourishing of the kingdoms of the world, they will forget and be damned. SeSl. L A is the inconsistency of human affairs spinning the wheel of fortune, as if nothing Iole fattable, nothing leafy, first let the wall permit, without the he relies, with the smoothness of the sphere, already from a height at the bottom, just from the bottom into the smoke, a little bit from the right to the left, and from left to right, and from left to right everything is changed, so that accordingly it is suitable for this in- to be seen to be square to the fragility of things Lud: All the ropes of the cattle are thinly pendent, And they rush to seize the treasure, which Valure is. And in the variety of languages, and in I would eat them, especially from the huge leeks complete with vigilance, as once upon a time when we read with astonishment
at the end of the day, it is still possible to mouse: whose rei caufàs demonftrare ag- fatter of which Be careful The first is that different nations corrupt; whence one a nation from the other, this also from that, while mutual ways of speaking (there commu- kill, a certain middle of the two it is necessary to strengthen the tongue; these things beyond the boundaries of nations performing goods, in other ways, and in other ways with at the time the tongues were degenerate Another reason for the change of languages it is of empires and monarchies change; by which it was done, as any the monarch would trust the vernacular the language flourishes everywhere from all in rum reduced to one, lest there be a variety of languages than any nation in particular he had a thing, a hidden idiom machines moved into rebellions
the loss of the monarchical fire, having broken the bond of strength, they would bring The third cause is public calamities. of the kingdoms, with which, before the war, fte, complete with hunger? nations so destroyed anoint me, that I may not be the snow of a few mortals leftovers? fupereffe are discovered
that hyfee conjunct alise borders na- interactions, speaking new languages they pour forth in great variety. The fourth thing is that there are various differences in the re- gna, with the introduction of colonies, by which as the native language of different peoples shared, there was a huge rush to acquire
as the tongue of the priest you hardly recognize the dialect: such is the language of manners, which? together with the colony translated from Illyricum, from a commission tation was PalTa, as neither Dalmatia nor Tolonus took her completely let him understand; such is the language of Gracia, which in some the case of the town of Calabria today is still in fu is, fed so transformed, that Gre- I haven't dialed the cam for a few years understand twice
such is the case of some in Andalusia Melitenfi infula, tongue Arabic, of which that of the the Arabs, these Italians Arabiafcpxt com- mixed terms, not a little corru- the option is speech. Quin- Tower of Babel Lib. III.
Chapter I. The fifth is the caufa, You are united together, from Your rudeness to persevere. L the confederation of certain nations, which? from He lost his job, finally from ad- alteration of organs, to use a different with the coming of the Goths, the Alans, and the Vandals "a massive corruption, four language? someone's pronunciation they are also from different pro- to try a new language with the announcement they seem of each kind in the fruitful va- We will produce examples. And what? flint hood? universal that first? go? language?
corruption damage paflTa? flint But this is all let's bring out the fufius. qu'wxu- Fivefold language? race at Se provinces oblervàffe me- guaru'mu- we read chronographs, which not we can say autogenous fèmper poft Baby Ionica? of confusion time so far unblemished? they came forward; namely Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Teu tonic, Myrna-, from which, which? language? in universal Europe, Afta He gave birth to another nose Italian Gallicans, Hifpanicam, Lujìtanicam, from this lias, ex do not invade Sardinia and Sicily; so many tem or one's Italian language? different dialed finally burning to rule, how many provinces? in Italy
they are fated; which is the same as me in the mini Teutonic language, as n as The most reliable authors report, àTui- the son of Japbetbi, the great-grandson of Noah he got there; where? from rudeness in perfect smoke, reduced care of rum, at last various fi- rub, with the exception of all barbarians idiot I lias, viz. mats, of which I desire
as if from He gave birth to a cat, English, Scottish, which one? coming out of the Trojan horse, the world two? posterioresocca{ìone5'vowwna- of languages and dialects variety so? flint, which is the fur of Vitlonis univer- they filled Hebrew So the first language, which? in the house Heber femper manto, fucceffu tempo- He turned first into the Baldaica; fè I fell into Arabic, or Midianite; the third to the Samaritans; fourth in JE- thiopica; the fifth into Syriac, as if ex declined mixed
how much it has deviated, in this place di- be sure The second was Greece, than a nephew tes Tbaleg a confusion of tongues when they brought him into Greece; where after the Tbalecbi family of Velafgi, Ihu gua Telajga was the name of the Lottiti flint, to use we found a fuse in Latium's flight, and in Hetruris let's give where? again various decurfù fè- Greek do? infila? they made the indigenous people, whence
The Anglo-Saxons rushed in with eager devotion. As indeed Saxon language
quality just become English we will laugh Refatts the ancient Illyrian language, Wyrica where? branched out into Volonia, LiOmnia, MofcoViam, Tartary, and every last one The borders of the East, innumerable lines He brought the guar fetus; from this enirn Poftea Tunica, 'Bulgaria, Bofnica, Tar- Tarica was born the greatest of the great? He filled the portion. And yet she? heart broken? were, that scarcely any primitive ve- let them keep the dead. In net, the language of the barbarians, and what? ad di&as already languages ha- of the ancient Greeks, Attic, Ionic, bent, a great multitude of them alike It is found in Aeolica, Vbrygia, and other diversities to use, for the confederation of peoples, so many lin- laica, Comorina, Bracmanica, Peguana, Latina How many nations were there in Greece? they gave birth Porrò Latina fîve ex pri- Tuncbinenfisj Tibettana, Infularum Pbi- Lippinarum, Japonica, Cyrillic, from which almost they all drew their origin from Lexicon A T H A N A Chapter I. Their vocabulary grammar It will be clear to the Americans. In America eanE
day in the western regions, it is so great turning to idioms, as our fathers it is easily divided into fifty Diomata returned to Poffe and handed over inter they are, however, the main source of the Mexicans
Peruaìia, 'Brafilica, Magellanica, Clriknfis The people of North America themselves Varicose tongue, of which more in those who do
African? Africa in short, tamedfi Abyjiina, The Arabic language is the dominant language there has nevertheless ipla immenfà diomatus variety, which no ad they obtain affinity with each other; use Who- Neana, Congolese, Angolan of the chickens rub poflìdent, like the font of Monomotapa, Cafraria, and those on the river Cuama Se They inhabit the shores of the Gulf of Terfici; how to become, we would like to reduce everything to calculus genera of neophyte languages, no I Klrcheri as the interpreters of the text think, where Seti I seventy-two, fed or to a thousand The score can be easily reduced. Who all, whatever they may have been in the end, the corruption and final downfall of the nation fé font, because of the caufas you added a little before or from the nomination of different gen- of these, or from the common use of the peoples with the shards of the nits while nim fuccenu time primxva lin- gua, names, words, appeal and not a large record are they, it happens, as forgetful? remember ria vice, proper names bus, according to the different ipfis? phantasm Ipecies dictated, impokierint; with the same Prophecy in the same way as in this day and every other day new names are imposed those things which did not exist at first, and from no the force of various injuries
mineral appeals introduced open mouth CHAPTER T)e the origin and introduction of the idolatrous impure reason di- virginity of tongues and manners and these nations flourished. Adam the first man lifted up, by divine hands from the silt of the earth According to the words of Geneva, it is about faith fed for when the flood comes, it verily takes place, an innumerable multitude of people who all with long life, I praise the genius of one's tongue Religion pl'rftftitfub nis worship, as much pervert Chami pro- unimiìn- Geniuses, already a true disciplinarian detainer each ad He fought against them, keeping watch: however polt lin- "Mf
a confluence of guarantors, as while different languages and idioms to be divided by faith, so also the first woe to the religion of Nobno before the leparation even nations learned and forgetful gradually from the true worship of the one God, Himself They deviated from religion, while each ex the leaders of the nations gave it to their religion he invented, which is the most suitable for me should be given, and innumerable storytellers narrative comments, of D E O, to the world, to the faithful, to men the glory of all things is entrusted to others, I introduced the apotheoists with honor used, fob of one's religion tes, little by little by secret devices, fofe by their a&ions Satan
and went mad universal world idolatry? abomination re- they cry And tametfi hxc quam fufiflì- me in the fertile Tome of Oedipus we will see, I will make it worthwhile I was afraid be some of these in this place I would bring ca- hair Tower of Babel Lib. III. CHAPTER III.
Se&. L T)e variety and multitude of Zh rum gods of the nations in particular, they are everything cechini) Cwn one here the nature of VuU you in the world Whom to say cbaos: raw indigence amount TSLec anything inert weight of the snow, and with the same Not a good couple female discord things And he would blow something else to others; with the body in one They would fight the cold with the hot, bubbling, Soft and hard, having a fine weight weight When, I say, fupremous and immor- such Numbers in the depths of eternity byffo proper contented with happiness there is still no concern for worldly affairs be touched, behold poles: finally starch that happy day dawned on which, like Plato I use the words, in the divine immortal GOD Confilio is concluded, like that world needy, and unfazed by in- that form is the beginning of all things Confucius equals to you, Vabobu avenged, the light he would raise, he would form fplendefceret omnigenes, and in va- leaving the faces of things; proper? happy he would enjoy the joy of being quoted. condo it is of the limit, and brought to work. Mun- therefore it is established, and from things mixed Confucius wanted
soon rises into a more liberal form, strength, properties, and other qualities litigated, where? were created with clay tur, providing a distribution service Vrometheus is the first to begin. Vrome- tbeus leu divine providence, to use all things you must He was born in these forms, so all of them He fulfilled the parts of his ancestors. And Uquidumffyijfo fecreVit from the air Which after a while rolled out, and cozcoque released deer Dijfociata places concordipace UgaVit. With fiery force I have brought you, He flashed, and smoked the place of the fibi reads in the castle; We begged you to be air UH lightly, and instead; Twice the earth is denned, and the great elements pulled And I was overwhelmed by the gravity of the preface humor Ultima pojfedit, folidumque co'èrcuit or- well The shores of the tarn spread, and swelled rapidly the winds Jufìit& circumambulate the shores of the earth And the rivers obliquely encircled the slopes of the banks, spread the fields, trust the valleys, Fronde tegi fylVas, lapidofosfurgere mon- you Scarcely had all things been certain, When qurtprefla long majfa latuerefub ipfai The stars began to shine brightly in the sky
"Don't let any animals rule the world, Afra holds the codefle of the ox, and the form of the rum Cejferunt nittidis babitandte pifeibus un-
Therefore heaven and earth must form already soaked, and all the rest dentiflème difpofìtis Saintly I lived twice, and I lied more capably high He was missing here, Ct to dominate in cheterà pofet jStatus is man, five bum divine woman he did He is the creator of things, the origin of a better world, SiVe fresh earth, fedutlaque late from high
A T H A N A hair JEtbere's kinsmen kept the women of the cad. Quattifatus Iapcto miHamftuYialis un- push He fashioned the image of the controlling god rum And there were fpeBent wild horses earth The most devoted mouth and heaven to protect He jumped, and brought them to trust in his face. So the man the mouth of the grave
and he raised his tail to look at it! foreclosed on the nature of the soul of wine next to mortal the immortal's conflnium; ceu fola co- left plants stuck in the ground (whose the founder of the root heretofore believed in hell he joined the bus, but the hair and your leafy top at the end of the year and love the way the highest heaven bit to never perish you have been exiled here, unquarried, a man with whom those bright lights of the world, to what? to be contemplated, and in I will do it for them he was created to be praised, be protected, by their beauty uneducated, true and correct religion Abandoned half, that madness? came like her, which one? the sons of grace would be venerated It increased dementia this tradition di origine à predecejflfori fattarum I forget, which the news about GOD, of the world, of men duction, and other matters of opinion he drank, and when the fire burned human pus? a huge portion of the mind to Infect him with the worship of any deity ret; inox vero abandoned DEOadfal- forum of the Gods, with each of the family law (Is there new idolatry? reason- lest the worship be prolapfù by comminifemente it is; and the fact that it is corruptible tears for the incorruptible GOD he laughs, and rebuffs the content of external things, as The ineffable God should be looked upon, ad He was flamboyant and earthly. At- that this transgression and the first dew Hebrews they give Matrix Klrcheri the grandchildren of Cham, namely Mifraim, Seti. I. CbufiO) Vbutb Canaano, who through Aftam Auihns And the Africans will be brought into the new colonies of difFufì, you will build new colonies of paplìm gods. introducing new funny dog- mothers gave birth to the world of any kind Then Adam and the Moon came forth. Pro- I'm sorry He was restrained from mafculus femina procreated, and into this world the coming first worship of the Moon cuifTe. It is true that this opinion forfàn is not so obvious to many vifum it is, it is here from R. Mofè Egypt, commonly Rambam, impromptu addition wax
for he says in More chem. Ifti fiquide remains of the rope race
of ba? orum (from Zaba, the progeny of Cham or to sr fìlio Chufii, who was fruitful already then, and on the back, and on the right, and He cultivated the northern shores, because ifta a nation filled the whole earth. And the complete for that reason in those times He was pbilofopbanti
what he thought created really matter cozli fpiritum feu animam; fellas Verily the bodies of the effe ipfa DEIfubftantia mats Do you remember this wrong? opinion -Dogma nis also Abubacer Arabs inexplicable the fact of hearing And therefore he also believes the whole nation of the Zaba? (feuy which is the same, eternity) since God is heaven according to their opinion. And they say that Adam was born first from mafculo femina figuti ester bominesy Fed honored him a lot, they said since the moon was taken out, propbeta apo- ftolus "Lxmxfuit, ty He devoured books on the worship of the earth. They said and that Seth contracted the opinion of the empaths Was I Hell Moon? ; They will also tell about Adam, that when he was plucked from the Moon, the climate of Neighboring India? , to the climate of Ba- the prophet of Bylon, he did many wonderful things He took him, he will make a tree of gold, which he grew branches, isrfoliiis, the tree which TOWER Chapter III. They were not burned by the fire, he said. runt, that the shadow of the ipfius tree
certain soldiers of men were contained, aU the height of the tree tur humane He also brought two stools fields, both of which was perishing I intend their truth in speaking of Adam the first 6r of men, who are attributed, futt, credulousness about the antiquity of the world ftabtlire, that i? ide come the heavens Zjr ìllellas else the gods. And this is about the first man whether the origin and idolatry of the Zabaos an opinion worthy of lunatic men, ex which, as it were, from a certain Trojan horse all of the ancient philosophers eternity of the world, of the many worlds reality, the life of the deaf you, of metemplychofi fine and ani- doctrines that were abolished by the sea revolution, ape to all impiety laughing, they seem to be prodigal. From here mother and her offspring, and grandchildren fijiomm in the name of God, like the others of the eternal
where? call the gods Bant, they needed children, where? everything confirms Cbronicon of Alexandria. Caufa The rest of these comments bujufmodt
I will prevent the dehramants of the Fabuiojanians it seems that the first those people left to their own devices, no cer- read that written before my times were they to be spun, and therefore certain? who- I'll give it to you? of GOD, of creation of the world, of the flood, and similar things and more serious changes, including pri- only a patriot of the human race they were referred to, it is acceptable as from accepted by them as from the first men, to be lusted for by the hands others have betrayed others to whom poorer starches and men to use those who were more remote from the first, so there are other things and other things too abliirda arTmxerunt, until the event ipfa? all? they have gone into the comments of the stories. Hence this diversity of opinions originates he didn't have hence the greatest rela- an almost inextricable confluence of nations. mountains born they are supposed rum nar- reasons BELLI B. IIL I3S For yEtbiopes, tefte Diodorus, the first SeB. I. men in Etbiopt as if in the middle They were destroying the world's children: stem in neighborhood Of all the suns generate casting the law of the parent. Tbeodore you from the relation of the ancients the first after men born in Arcadia, jux- take that Before Jove the nations of the babuiffe fe- run down arcades hunìgensprior fled. Cactus vero Mercator ex Ariìtide pri- the motherland of mankind join fuirTe folum Atbenienfe. Arabs
how it is to be seen in their Geography, this prerogative Ara- They attributed to Btcefelicus lolo. Finally, the Egyptians firmly believe
cough; the trunk of this temperature goodness that perfeéliflìmam, then the fertile Nile nature many things naturally, lùap te According to the producer, produc-talquebe- nigniflìmè conlèrvantis; increased opinion nor their monftrofùs he is a madman leu of mice in Theban the result of the territory, some of whom on the upper part of the wall bearing they are banned Herodotus tells
Vfammeti with the King of Egypt, with the great I will trust you held for recognition whereas, what province of the world I want people to produce, him in the following year read Two newborn babies from I am human: life? removal tos, enclosed in a certain place, and a goat He commended the lendos to a certain pallor, with it the cuftodia of the lame, like all of them I blocked the way of approach, and did not see Remec speaking with a humane voice what mortals they desire to hear; the cake undoubtedly perluding the future
I was born at a suitable age, his province what? , where? the first people in the world dhTet, they would speak the language; therefore he can certain ATHANASIUS Kl Hair, a certain revolution of the years they were taken out of the cage, soon exposed With your arms raised, repeat these words over and over again to burst forth, Bec y Bec: which we eat, to you can go abroad, when no one would understand that growth spurt then detected it's
Beak in ipbrygum language nothing something else to call like bread, concluded the King Rcheri dying light one a-Secì. l. of reason some principle of all things
God, I mean the universe of things obtained nen control, sure particular
ri religious ritual and worship while he acknowledges I also smelled certain must, in no time at all, or at the end of GOD's creation, or at the end of the creation I make religion fuifTe, for all, when Tfammetic, in Vrygia the first homi- priesthood as a kind of connection nes fuifTe products. when they gathered together, I came to ho- time would fail me be a fan my religion, my religion roaring facrificium facerdotium dvafó&ej&mg the worst origin of delusions to be brought here They seem to be accompanied by j, which appears then they would be; wherefore, he who had trusted more, con- fìilat 'Berophus, Varro, Euphebius, and Hie ronymtmijPolydorum, Jrtftopbancm, Vere- rium, Toftelhm, a]iofcp. c: us hisreli- it is to the gods, which the first idolatrous three concern the origin, poftlimi- let us compare It is therefore certain and indubitable, of things
beginning at no time in this world "nhms'ho- baùtte the people came to the barbarian, na- He despised such a strange thing, the climate as well The first of things unfelpt rude impure, any deni- that man came to me, wild, wild, those who do not, or nature read, read again from innumerable near-religions from the very beginning of the world, ad many times protection, then the exfalforum rum culture
at different times, di- and not among the nations and the people at the time, confueto, then finally pfà JEgyptus most abominable, which pras the same for all the rest false an additional aspect to the worship of the gods he, show almost infinite pan of the waves gods population variety; to use the following analogy it is clear ANALOGY Among the first patriarchs of the world, the Geftis of Ophirides, Ifis Typhon, parallel to Horus.
You are married.
Brothers of opposite behavior.
Let's add Jared. Enoch. ISlo'em Calus You offer Eva Earth fire ISlioba. Vefta Ifis Abel. Sem. Saturn Ofiri-sfecundm Cain. Cham. Nimbrod. Mars Vulcanus Typhon. Seth. Japheth hey Vrometbem Sol. Horus They were breath of the city set up tores of the fields worship
Legislators. Mothers living of that pro people
Sons of the Gods Ijuftia apply trying The state of sanction fe- singing Pro-religion you are paid Invent the evils so the matter Idololatrixau eaters bellorumama tores Ca: dem Ipiran- you From the sprouting of the sprout. : not Of the fathers male safe a'mule Juftity; loving you Divinity me rites When T'URRIS BabelLib. III.
hair When I went to Egypt these things and their daughters! Junos, Hercules; the same also, which u-Sccl. I the first parents to perceive, vehe- menter as the gift of human action does the goal exceed the length of the fuffpice rent, nothing was easier you, when some exotica apotheofi them cohoneftare they would, a great weight in their minds He is Hercules among the people
to others is Jupiter thrice; for Ninus, who existed in Chaldxes Hercules
to others it is Jupiter, and the same thing Ninus, whose proper name is Aphyrius diclus, from which they were called Aphyrii. Ex It is clear to everyone
God made heaven trem of Saturn, and Terrarn the mother, un- she had rumed, she was excellent among the first the story of the Egyptians ride the fathers' power, of natural things, Ifide
Promanarle is true, as by which knowledge and long life prevailed Minutius Felix notes well. For those who or by virtue
or who died of unknown parents in the blime emergent, folemus è ccelo ce- cidifle, to say, which proves La- blàntiws Firmianus with the authority of the ancient dung Trifmegifti, who would say a few extitifTe methods
which e perfect doctrine is born, in these Heavens, He named the turn Mercury. with Ennius confirms the same in Eubemerus, who he said, first in the government of the country the buffalo of heaven, and the stars of heaven with names they were surnamed, the same Latlantius plead he said, because of the shining name and to accomplish eternal fame that contigiffe, for the Kings when they powerful, my parents death in the name of Cedi, Terrxque cele-
brabant, as these formerly had other names to the appellant. So 'Berofus y Noam ob excellently gefta, said anerit a pofte ris Heaven, Janus, Chaos, the femen of the world. But SerYms says, the ancient Kings mena fibi usually revenge rum
Latlantius Cicero brings in a book about the birth ra of the Gods For when before Cadum Saturn there were no kings because of a small rarity, ipfùm Regem, tx and also his desire to wash with smoke to flaunt with great and new honors perish, and believe in the gods, because of the and this seems clear Xenoppo's fimè demonftre, when he says Say the Saturns, who of the noble me The tuftifim founded cities and populous cities pro- production Enoch also talked about this do a miracle transference, and relatives where: the ipfis stories they could provide a cafion, that everything they were strengthened by incantations fre- with quick, and magical miracles, which impious Cbami descendants divinity by faith he ate paplìm everywhere, who so perplexed the minds of the Egyptians they were worshiping them as if they were gods they would burn, and the mode of all things reporters done they were venerated And yet hence she was the first architect of the gods foundations Hence the origin of Jupiter, Her- Culis, JEculapii, 'Bacchi, Neptune, fa- of him, and of other gods, of whom in i tome Oedipus fuse damaged fu. it Well, let not those who have this name analogy, or equivocation à no- to be trusted twice considered
teftes ad- I lead the LaSfants Firmiani Euphe- two, who worship the same god those he will write Archilochus gnecus chronologist The truth among others Xenopbon is assigned to us with xime, cp. who he has been
book Oequibo, whose words with confidence (as or to rescue us from the smoke fint) digniflìma finderiflem, eahìcad I decided to add a long one. jzquì'vo- Saturns, he says, are called families mimZde- of noble kings
who founded cities ewm. ancient times Their first born Jupiter Junos Hercules Verus their grandchildren the strongest
the fathers of Saturn Ceceli the wives of Rhea, Ccelorum, Veftx, etc therefore Saturn, so many Ccelis, Veftae, Rhe, ATHANASIUS K IRC H ERI
Hair, therefore, not one, and many others fuijfe Sa- turni, whose fathers were the Cedi
the sons of Verus Joves, Therefore the names of these they were of the dignity and deity of each among the rude priests, because of the famous name found the brightness Then he notes nopbon, which names ifta are related go, as begotten and begotten, whence Satur- nia eft is y qui à Cedo Se Vetta five Ter- ra was born, and who was from Bea leu Ope furore son and wife gave birth to Jove Juno himself. Jupiter indeed it is ed
who è Saturno Se %hea begotten Her- lures, Veft, JunonesjCpiì fìc the said font. Sit down L because of the crimes they committed lititude, make more Zoroasters, Ophir- there are more, more Iphides, Hor'i also, and There were typbones, near Geftoruma- loggia
from legendary antiquity the fate Again fìcuti M. Vortius to, Janus Se Saturnum of the Scythians, Se He makes No'èmus affyrius, Cbamum a son; of the Italians Janus and Saturn Zapho the son of Elipba the daughter of fauj Jofephm 'Ben Corion. What is the truth? indeed, those hiftoria are nowhere near the snake Therefore ifta names are more we, as far as we can know
ordered, which is equivocal, because of the plu- with rice later they seem to be said by relationship to the first Fall, po- other Cali] Himself to the first Vefta, worse ones
This is about foreigners. Whence He adds: ISLimbrodus himself Saturn, whose the son of Idcius and the chief of Babylon, (what He marks himself as Viodorm: it will be better to say, cu- right son of TSlinws
in a hurry Affyri. ws it is named) like Camefes at the Egyptians (whom the Hebrews Cham, Egypt they call it by its proper name) it is We begin first
whose firstborn Ophirist Sclfisy JEgyptiws of course Ju- ifis pima, ptter Juno (whom we rum We are very sorry, he is his wife I {beam
five If Also Oftridis son Libyan by name, tefte Vwdoro, sEgy- better was Hercules, who by strength of body the rice was wonderful, degree and the next generation. Equally Saturn was the first of Crete's ptera, who Cado father is said to amputate the teftes, and his son Jupiter, Junoque first nita Alctus was also from Alcmene threat it, it exists, it was alive, interfere with it matter, as for what purpose Janus here with Janus Oenotrioy leu Aborigines conciliari pof. fît, it shines easily. So the words of Jo- They are the sons of Gorionides, as they are born. On that day, he said, to them, Tiaphophilus Eliphaz, son of Eiàu, fled from Egypt whom Jofeph, when he went to Hebron to I was bound by my father, with whom I defied him he would burst forth, intercepted together with the focus He led into Egypt: Tfapho Verus died tlo Jofèph, a fugitive from Egypt, in Africa cani ad Agania %egem Cartbaginen- fem fe brought, by whom he was kindly received, at last the pnefes of the army were destined for Italy penetraVit, where dtVinos bonorespromeruity Janus said. That Jofepb hifloriae fè- rie, continuing with his fruitful words offends but he says It happened therefore as Sappho was lost A story one day, going to the Calf, he heard in the la-prilla, grind the voice of the mountain Vacche, autVitult lixNu lem, demanding therefore the Voice of the lost I took her, he is barren, and while over the mountain by the wind with the Jet, and lifted up mine Hercules, the Greek! a certain one offers a fpelunca to the unevenness of the mountain with its relative nouns fint, as poi- I am surrounded by a huge bundle, which when he will it seems that divers things should come together, for they are the same thing it is father son in response different rum For this reason, Heaven can do the same. in a hurry, we begin with Hercules
where- Xenopbo gives examples of rum. who- therefore very many are mentioned Coeliy of Saturn, Jupiter, HerculesfbeaTel- removed Some of the fussiness in the an- tro, Vifu appears horrible: beftia Vero, busy at that time decorating the cow from the left side from the lower middle, the bottom of the cow gin, which Sappho soon initopnelius in- but the people of Cithim were terrified (it is Italians) Tower of Babel Lib. III.
Cip. III. Italians) having discovered the work of Zapho, they said, j J g what shall we do tomorrow?
who approached the beast I was married as a parent, Saturn The first Egypt rurn no- office threat rice tflfis killing us all from within ritual He claimed
at last with one accord they conclude that the day in the year is named after him celebrated, in memory of fate tur, offering ci libamina, ir [acrifida, and in the midst of the elections, with all the Italians He will be freed from the infiltrators of the Hoftii, Janus they called
army Vero Gundelo- the rum again broke into all the Italians prey around the country
fpoliis fubji- cere attempts ejl. Janus True Faith opposing him He turns the whole thing into flight
and the whole fic he freed the land from the infiltrators of the Hoftii. Ob how I would take care of Janus [there son of Cithim in they chose me sr campaign noVafa Let it be among the sons of Tubal infiuhs cir- lying together, all little by little jugatefetnt, him Janus Saturnus driving; Janus, indeed, because of the slaughter war with this name born
Satur- Is it true because of the pity that I then take? instead of the gods they worshiped Cithim Sab- Thai name, which is the same like Saturn but it was at first from only the Valli Cam- panile, fed Cethim pojlea temple in his building honor the jots did him such? , but he reigned from Janus (whence by Janus Januenles) Saturn years, dead e. g
tir Gava's life nae (forian Genua) fiepultus, regnaVit but the other Janus killed him as many times years ago, he built and invaiable Le Champagne? great and full temple a while ago Atque fufieph 'Ben Co- rion, whose words I thought here at length it pleased him to bring it forth, because to them, what? from Ab- origins, the first Italian co- lonis Petrus Leo Cafiella alTerit, maxi- they meet me It is therefore clear from these, that the first the founders of the first cities Saturn's sky; Of the Ophirides of Egypt, this Cali is the leu of Saturn in Egypt, the fic of the Italians the first kings named Janos
let us return to Ophirides. You offer so- that and Ifis, you, Diodorus from Saturn they are especially focused on Egypt, so prudent such and moderation, that all in le they would turn their eyes, their minds somewhere, for give the most cunning laws to the Egyptians tas, agriculture, any input a bed of mechanics, weapons, force of them also, and of the oil-plant to teach, to teach letters too rafque faiences, such as Mufica, Geome- triam, with the help of Mercury I introduced the first thing, and then I smoked it lemper ftudio coluére Having therefore found these by chance, Ofiris striving for greater glory, he prepared an army, that the care of his affairs was committed to his wife, Mercury prudent (Tìmum to turn joined in governing the kingdom as if helper conilliary Hercules too incomparable strength
iple Ile things prudently? Apollo, the brother of Laurel to the finder, and to the two to the sons of Anube, and Macedon (whose dog, here lu- as they carried him domain advancing
in addition Vain (who desired divine honors in Egypt collected eli: bat Marone and Triptolemus, of whom he cultivated vineyards, this woman whether the order of the commandments of the earth he was smart You offer food to Mufìca lummopere recreaturj nine lecum plaltrias, which lusted after Gracis Mufk one of them destroyed him: re Apollo aiTumpflt But satyrs to to clap, to sing, and to they are too fit to win a million He had stools in his stomach. Not for bel- licolus, or prxliis, and danger from he was rich, led to leisure, and loved by men you, by which favor from GOD all him they had nations; s&thiopians the city bus a le xdihcms. The Nile is also long widely Athanasius Kircher Chapter III I run far and wide with the greatest wealth of men while the joy overflowing, through Her- which he coareted within the channel, whence and the story of the eagle (in fact, because of the velo- the city was called the liver of Vrometbei by the way; and Vrornetbeus was King iftius territory, which is so far from the Nile He was pouring down. To these having finished migrating to Arahia from here to the Indians everywhere, -where re- bus preeminently geftis inea seftimatione it was
as a native, divine honors to him pallini ofTerrent From here he fell in love with Cacteras provinces, to the extremity and he penetrated into Europe, all that where? he had found, by teaching: finally returning to Egypt, because of his crimes the size of the it is written and it came to pass in the teeth of the times, when his fame would grow, and the name would also grow impofitio (for the founded cities of Sa- turn, to the supreme dominion of Ju- with the invention of butter, sheep, and oil (Bac- cbus leu Dionyfius, Hercules à fumma with strength, from the struggle of the world Jupiter, from things discovered by Mercury, a pollo from Mufìcx frequented by And Janus, finally, to the worship of a more polite life he provided a necklace, ) and read this in this way which the ancients had they offer, who offer it with all by said names They confuse Paul. And first of all Saturn with Ofe- laugh Orbbeus confounds in that hymn, which I coni- nit with these words. All the parts of the world will be ate Smokers who cut the same, who rurfus ad' you are growing Virgil with Janus Saturn him he does the same thing as he plays with the hilce springs: Tibullus also set Ophirides with Bacchus. I. leu Dionyfius the same effect Jan"s
Saturn He casts mine in a manner. smoky become through them rim his Barbara taught Memphite to mourn HtveT' the ox Oliris made heavy plows, And tender ferrofollieitaUt the ground. Unexpected wildness commits A vomaque not known to read from the trees. Here he taught to attach the tenders to the mittens Here the sickle is hard to fall. The first ripe ones will make them delightful One of the uncultivated expreffa deditpedtbus. The liquid taught me to bend the voices to song, MoYit gift Bacchus, the farmer, confetti with great pain He gave the carriers a triplitide to diffoliate.
You will not have trifles, if it is not Ophir's mourning, Sedcborus, cantus, fedleVis death But Variifloresj&front redeemed with coryms, Fufa fedadteneros yellow pallapedes. Dionysius, therefore, and Ofiris, hence the same for Cbenophyris is said to be from the ivy, this eli: the plants of the Ophirids. Hercules rò Baccbum elegantly met him in a certain epigram of Antipater
this triptych. Both Thebans, born of Jupiter, both Here the claVa rejoicing, Tbyrftger on the Vat. Both triumphant with various arms and a column and snow This one wears wax and that lion drinks. Both eras are cracking; xmograie God to both The fire took them both from the earth. But Mercury and the other gods are one CurVam vindictor ferVans fub image We have spoken above of Ophiridus, himself make me j we will say below, it is therefore clear that this noAvo- Satumufque fenex, Janique bifronfisi- vo{jlclUou in one repraelentatam, magician nothing else to wood the snow of one Sun multi- TOWER hair a multiplicity and a variety of virtues, such as he gets into the lower world. For it usually happens that Ipre- to those that go astray ro qua: welcome, useful and beneficent light, mni arTectu prolèquatur human con- domain Permoleftum to the blind race seemed to understand only through vegetigare Lùpramundanus Numen
I will not eat cheaply. Therefore, with the Sun and the Moon nothing more beautiful, linden would give him in the corner, So- lem ipfùm God and the Moon joint They go to the gem of the goddess Effe. Tlinius otherwise I will tell stories about the gods laughing at the wine, but whether God became the sun, seems to wander, un- from x d Hebrew, which represents God cat, they want a derivative. Certainly Macro bius than many other arguments I tried to drive out all the gods to So- to be referred to, and that one effete god, which he called by various names the nations would come. But as the origin of this 7roAv6éictq is to be understood more precisely, of them it was cheap to order a little higher. And so the first flood the issue, when it was extremely difficult and unlivable God not the archetype they would catch but the control of the bodies of the clefts in all life? comfortable, uri little an- we said to you, the delegate did not end they would not be deceived by him, nor by him, who God properly agreed, they would distinguish; divinity at random lòlo me- holding no other GOD but him the moon, which is of light and darkness, movement and of Filentii, of the notices of the days, nor not years of life and tempe the ftates dilpenlàre agnolcebant. She is about the stem of Cbaldaì in the first poft deluge times, concerning the true worship of God, which Noah had taught them
burn the book I. hu- said the right of the work it was
with Nembrodo as a guide Universal Cbami CbuficpiQ family, lùperftitiolàm philo- of all au- B E L L III. author) the greatest Secl I Sun god, (jlow t They called Vimnias from the Egyptians taught; the planets, themselves which light the rest to trust, oblèvering his nod, to use of the Egyptian Zodiac (òxhcuxg, that is, call the neighboring gods bant, but the planets pctSofotyópiig, this efofeeptro acenlòs Solis They were crying in the prison. Hence The first commentaries on the gods of the Egyptians push the fimulacra, whom, however, all to Ofirid himself Iphide, that is, to the sun itself They recalled the moon; who his virtues rum through various forms of animals they needed the hieroglyphic fchemate. In this agreement, through the sun's hawk nae fiery force, five hot-moist; by a fertile goat: moist through they marked the crocodile: fic about the deer ris, as a reader in hieroglyphics he will find works. In equal proportion to the day lymbolis, at Cbaldxos parallel rant (symbols of Sun Moon. What there was Ophiris among the Egyptians, at Cbaldteos was a favorite of the Uraus Fire, at Verfas Mytbras, at 'Babylonios' Belusy Tbamuzuà Vboenices Adonis For when, because of the cleftium of the heart unheated pore space, there It is not so easy to make a vow as they could: lymbola hujulmodi, which seemed particularly appropriate, in their honor to collect the fair eff they judged Nor of VbiliHxorum
A dragon in human and marine form na fimul mifta, nifi Neptune, Ampbi- triten, Oceanus or Tbetyn, or holce all, that is the sea (for the common each one was chosen by God) as great in nature's mysterious Numi- nis lymbolum they noted JEgyptios y HebrrtoSjCbaldrfos, Babylonians, Pbcmices, The Grecians were raised, then they gave, while innumerable gods they weave genealogies into innumerable ones one lupperftitions, whence to extricate him they did not know lapfi lunt
everyone Athanasius Kircher Gy. III all of them are old Sun or Moon? very multiple
and as if things were o-Sccì. to conduct; in such a way that they called Macrobius the active principle of the Temnium; fte, and others a little before alleged, Sa- so the moon, the same thing turnus, fupiter, Fiuto, Apollo, (Baccbus, men of various towns as if Sunday Mercury, Hercules, JEfculapius, Ne-l conjugcm the prince of all things ptunus, Vulcanus, Mars y Van, Aeolus nil they alluded to the pious flag; spouse I say of the Sun, I say like a matrix, the female of all generable things diffuses, from which I gathered the whole ele- the mind of the world, almost infinite things variety, which you can hardly be surprised at mouse
it is attached Therefore, the old whatever rejoices in the name of the goddesses, ad Recall the moon, the mother of all if they were different, how different? of one of the Soiis abilities and abilities, how it appears in the apofita figure here. In which where do you see the sun's orbit in epicycles? the names of the gods, one lives each one
whom, however, Hermes of this Theophia? founder
by no means special gods, fed fupra- mundane archetypal Gods below it runs In the first place it is said that he the bilious virtues which I first poured into the world that Sun brought to the generations genial, and from this to accomplish a faithful work
ceres di- while, that eat in the Sun, the Moon ftellas; is cited, as far as the crops are concerned. lu- finally from this into hyla? um five elements It is called dna, because it is difficult for darkness the whole world, by the strength of each one it will illuminate the lower parts with a kind light. You- appropriate flows to the world, he was pretending ms feu A'oJYtm, because from nati- For the sun measures the times j va fuse all the properties of creativity bator, and was the director of the year to excite the appetite for generation. Ju- It was called Saturn. As a family no feu H' from the illumination of the air, to whom of the pores and of the entire world, Jupi-) pres2eft, is therefore denominated; from plants three times to illuminate everything with rays pene- And to the women of the earth? cit, it is called Vroferpina. Flora, Diana from Apollo; Mercury in the amount of force the attractive fua of all meteors caufà efoNeptunem is, because of the dominion in sea and rivers Win because of the earth? economy? administration chusj because of wine and foreign liquors reach maturity at any end thence with corroborative force, Hercules is called; Vulcan, on the other hand, from the fiery So- the law has the name of force and efficacy; shake but Mars, because of his bilious ardor, which it arouses in animals and men. fculapius because of the falutifera, than in plants and herbs arouse the power of the Sun. Pa; z the fecundum of the Sun's life, which ca fua ability in all things is carried out JEolus, finally, as to the amount with great exhalation of steam cause plenty of winds tempests fàt is denominated. I'll continue while the Sun is one fubflantià, with power Humectative force Moon? , in which bushy places, and flowery gardens, my fix it flows in Minerva, however, from the heat of the light the nose, which is of great use to the genius, he remembers Hecate hell fubter- raneaLuna, of a hundred kinds of things, bus which he produces in subterranean places. Tbetys from the sea and rivers, nor from numida? nature? economy, to which pre- he found a name. 'Warring with fervour, which increased bile in the bodies produces; indeed of all of them fynopfin, in the frequent form of contemp please: and he came to the house of all give the multitude of gods and goddesses, I do not know from the confusion of languages you know so well, while otherwise ce deos deafque y Babyloni,
the Egyptians; otherwise called Grata Latini it runs And indeed the Egyptians were the first who to Ophirides and Iphides every mountain flruo- Tower of Babel Li b. III. That among the Gods It is the Egyptians Babylonians, Chaldeans And it is to the Hebrews Thank you Latin'n it is Ofim Wn Tbamu Bel. %empban Zfo Saturn, vcl father ArVeris rose Chamos pud Moth Bacchus 7toAv6ò- Hercules noAva- VVLi@ J
Chon Sandes Diodes. turned Sja Beelpbegor
Vriapm. Anubis EJK Mercury Horus Adonti
Apollo Serapis Moloch. Hpe? iù)v ùa$ Fulcanus, Tlutus. Campus, Nile, JUT1 Dagpn. I become (retold v ISLeptunus. Typhon Jan Midras Mars Ifiactly of the dead of genius Q'inn Therapbim O'JDn Ckamanim. &7rolgJ7TCUOl Aversion to homes daughters StóU. Synonyms of Goddesses. But what between Gods Egypt it is rum is Hebrew Orientals
That is free That is Latin luperna. nnntry Afiarotb, Breathe in. Venus Nepbtbe. DTVDYi Derceto Tetbys. Hell ifs. Tanned P'ofct. Trofierpina Illitbia Hecate triceps. You will be taught. madom'macetli AVÙLVÌTIS
Lwd fupramun dana multi- mine piua pidid Sfo- co (Benotby vA5 Inhale Mother of the Gods Cybele And these things about the murkiness of the gods and the gods that came out of the confusion of tongues, let the tongues suffocate; already to other things we do not know our own argument. It follows in the same way as the Geneatheological Mirror) in which they are presented, wherever they are ATHANASIUS Klrcheri? 1H 5PE CU I. ITM &Tt8tA-TTÌ. TÌQTOGlCJjm
o Tz cjIjJjjl jìejCme tj ca i Hebrews from the Chaldeans, the Greeks from Egypt first
where Jzarum Jevurnauz old age of all named tnàta, - tem, auà. Sohs, which, Lunaz, recalled exlrilrentur Tower of Babel Li b. III. to. III. ftnioforam of the deaf, of the deaf- who called back the fanatical crowd; as in Obelisk Tampbilius Oedipus how dif- we demonstrated the fufiffime, which con- Lùlat the reader; whom Cbalàd Syrians, He- made by Greeks, Greeks, and Latins, by their own names
No-Seft clay. I. minibuses, universal while inextricable impiety Dololatrica? they brought about a confederation. Synonymology table? before the gods see page CHAPTER IV. Of the first names impotence Chapter Where? about the truth, the correct name Is it a reason to think? from au- writers
The first is, for all men' nature effete, and the name ra that is, such names are really
what was the nature of the world tura, but not from the confection of men protection Names The second, out of men's hearts tmpofitto
that the names of the defendants were imposed, liaeffe, how many men have they been? decision and by will stuck up And some of the original names what? from the priests to those authors infatuated, and with great power indeed a humane matter of the other terms findamentes From there, however, I called to extitif such a disturbance faith, as covered by long years they are hardly recognized at all behavior their vocabulary wave gia, which one? in some of the barbarian languages better than they are made in Greece. But what? she? barbarian? language? It will be said in this place. I will go on in winning the two if you fententiis, we have two axioms this from Plato's doctrine defùmpt, cer- of course both the effect and the definiteness of things nature in such a way as to really make matters worse, they seem to be variously exchanged, to pay tribute to man letti ratio count five mini- ffram, and consequently of those things more, which one? from fénfibus pcrcepta? to the understanding is conveyed, the words of thee gins and fimulachra Hence the nature? and the infatuated difcrime can be perfected, indeed, other words nature? by decree the other is based on human institutions and laws they are said to crush, which nevertheless I would like to be understood wisely, things so as to flint conititutus, in this line I do not retrace the confusion of the guarantor be said, the words to be imposed, otherwise the same applies to all men, and the same as the common fermo. I say, however, that the first created things At the beginning, I was just a confessional reason
and necefTarius, as words certain nature? by decree they were spinning
for it was done vorijULofe re- rum out of the mind of the hungry
and aflimilations, so also and voices and writings? they must [Acltmv of them in the mind noftra effigies of the renters, and then the truth of things? they are and natural apprehensions, by which things ipfa? as they are, are known, the same those forms are, by reason, Confentane dem in all men fenfibus to be printed and sketched, so as to what? the minifterio of those things images of bile, as in wax, in ani- mo imprefa? let them be left as beautiful Plato Theaetetus Sopbifta were brought down Therefore, with the power of the mind, and effective knowledge of things correctly and truly no Athanasius Kircher formed at least from nothing
from the first man, Secl. It is the same in all men we believe that it had no origin it is, and then natural, as while the matter is also ipie, whose words flint skirt
places times without changing the shape of the bus with fire with us, and with all which indeed
it is most certain, ha- buffet most effective power fenfuum of all
and of all reason very free and the most expedient fum, that is, really fuifle philolbphum men and women alike, so j as in the preceding fcrutinium to stop who knows to be confounded it is Like a mouse
that is through I was a daughter, nor of any man Adam was given some facility by God, but I like the opinion that they are different and different
Fed, which by virtue of genius, for the first time they retain the same strength and propness so in every way it seems to be fuiffe necefary, as original some terms pri- a handful of things created so they have been infatuated, as the nature of things they would really express, and represent Xatura- rem Qnm prgeterea E U S by nature name issue
numimpo- architect and high nature just in will indeed the firmament of created things tettgenda chin
a certain fate leu eternal principle, not unknown grue Tlato DEO veram caufà àftìgna- he lived, since he created things to be used, and by virtue he confers, so the word rum
to whom their nature is impressive return, the reason of the fitting He will give to men. Since I'm going fJLùLi. of learned things, Plato
all men have the same information ideas, that is, certain and true of the caufa in mind conformation and cognizance tion, not reckless, uncertain in- deacon I'm sorry funnels (in fact think of the word in this place understand mouse) with nature in all human power to them
and efficiency infer to perceive things, and to understand fuiffe ovofjLdùiTluu, no doubt and adeò de fide effe a little poft vi- it will be due Which, when he was ignorant of it, (or at least What do you think of Moyft's books? he could not bear, nor did he know pure fate, nor do you (pronounced freely) from ippò vi- the delight of Moyfe of true origins hey of antiquity, that folidè it must be perceived in general. For he Adam was the first man true and proper to all souls impofùiffe names, and enable it theme à D E O accept it His words quickly from Geneva IL verf And for- God forbids me everything from the earth of the soul of the field, go every Colatile heat
what He would call them, and all that Adam called soul VfPentk
ipfum efl name ejmy And he called Adam all your names ammanila
r Flying cod, all beftiam of the field So God did it
as of all by the nature of the animals Adam's legs would fall upon him, as to him and fent perfpe&e know
or at least miraculously some reason everyone animating of that eyes really fubje you give, and the same becomes the voice of them city
so as to expeditiously efFe&rix, but of things through understand the fymbola of the perceived words are by nature strengthened by force, from which bus I will compose the speech as I please. "
I am indeed yyòv and the firstborn that confusion of names, certainly rio of things natures He would have perfected it. which was leafy and explored knowledge, convenient it existed in Adam egg ability, for I understand fiction those words: And each name he gave that Adam he, unmoved, nodded winds Tower of Babel Lib. III.
Captain W. Winds, was his name, that eff, were il- the real issue, and real names, and things properly adapted to nature, not fe- when extrinsic denomination even, ie elTentialcm a certain reason- neither so that the properties of molds pite fubmijfo, the funerary name of Seti. L a horse, he was talking down his neck, and Adam's afpetlum fuflining, and the same cat- it happened This is not to be understood in this way they are, as nouns, which: animals im- Adam loved her, and she was the first to God it is thought that you have received it, for it shall not be done perfect animal names tte reiponderent; , and adeò exipfìsl Adamus, fed DEUSipfeimpofuiffeeis with the names of the leaves the names would be called, fed Adam r. AbM- that the nature of the matter is easy to reach the language of God, as far as Liam Bai my pious poffet, with whom R. bram 'Balmis with these words, which: from the Hebrew everything is perfect, except that part theme
which: the names of the animals translated into the Latin language by me net, which he immediately left to integrate they call But there is a great difference between the strength of God and the strength of Adam, between the tongue, go to another he delights, as ipfè per knowledge, which For when God becomes blessed, says Ihu he had, of animals, and by notice gua fancla, necejfariò nomtnum impofitio of many words, which I received it must reflect the nature of things, because rat, would create names, and impo- fruitful of them natures He agreed with them appeal. What: they are confirmed by W. Aben- e%ra, (Jalbag, both, Beccbai, ab- both, and elsewhere in the commentator the bus, whom you trust in this place. He also remembers this impofition become Alfurcani rite congruence, and indeed not one just formed led diverfìs è caufìs expert, or from their own difference fpe- cific, or from a natural property, or from motion, or from figure, or from peculiarity ri by some operation, or from some fin- I was Ma- humed importer
where it is said GOD gulari and proper by accident And diótalTe Ada names aptè impo- this is the first there were names ógfloVfls à Adam in these words
God's creative and animating nature: no soul to all, God made thy womb to Adam after him. But it is true for one thing I attacked. Adam blessed the memory, and taught u more terms would be imposed, &con- pfum oretenus names uniufcujufque, & Vo Adam called all things to names their properties. Mofès Barcepha Syrus in the book of Paradifò, says the editor Vara- instead of mistrusting and slandering majeftate, ac such a look of splendor
what kind of emicuijfeex facie'Mofis fcriptura teìlatur mmeiata, with the types of lovers the names are different, each name tim calling, she with the heads of Verus prone, nor too much adornment, which he re- he was crying, to look at the imagination they passed widely t was called from him tra, one word for many things would be adapted to the meaning, that but it is done, according to the nature of the matter: reason po- he was playing And also names from various yivmv circumftantiis itafìint impofì- so that they might meet the nature of the Na- ture: for not so much by appeal the importance of the matter is signified
fed teeth also V7rciQ%t$, qua: fùoqui- it is said in that way civoui quate let's say accidents are the thing (wfjLct'ri- Tovjiidcil, they note and defend. So the first names were reólè by Adam they are distinguished from the order of their names
g. when there were conflicts in this manner, and a bull to be called by his name, immediately he hearing the name of the Koran ipfo ca- They represented the true nature of the matter, as there should be no doubt about the names
she A T H A N A IV. those true definitions of little things, and hence it may be said here and there, named na (pva'i fuiffe impofita
viz Pienter Tlato in Cratylus. Names therefore no impotence however light small things tur, nor the hu- of ordinary men and a thousand works, and therefore the truth Cratylus cites saying, Nature does not know things Mena Exifter, nor any man the name of the artist Finally, the light, which goes by another name fpicit, what is the nature of things? express give, and to reprehend himself in a particular way square and those of the letters of that name you will impose and accommodate can give I will continue with my prayer and the reason of human strength trade will be broken, at least human- diplomas of rum conceptions, fym- there are some balls, which men trade will be brought together. So the confuedness of the tentacles and the inftitutum is of great importance, in of the human race, and from here two exits Plato's definition of the name although The name is a re-instrument suitable for teaching, and accommodating I Klrcheri given, and the nature of the property was re- Seti. I. to be prefigured, and the imitation which takes place of the voice minifterio, of that thing, than anyone imitating tandaminftituit, voice imitated They are
but in this place two things must be trusted names, some first, some fe- cunda was born from the first (to whom, however it is common to all, as the nature of things they express in such a way) in whose we go crazy in search of that etymology, the sources of the first of these names let us know whom to go to, it is true Of the names ivÌTn& The first one indeed names of power, as with Plato where, where, how does it become human, jore impofita, long time ufù ob- loleta, in barbarian languages, this is, Ht- Braìca, Chaldaica, JÌLgyptiaca, as Plato wills, they are gathered, the ignorance of which neither, as even Plato, the truth with which that the reason for the names is to be ignored ek fé says, when the origins of the terms are known Therefore, the conclusion of this Oti, let us at last see what it is was that original language which ma- trix, from which all cartels originate they drew CHAPTER How much and what was the first of all languages. Chapter V. T The Hebrew language of the world say the same time, to GOD the Best Ma- imguamm ximo initituta pnmo tradi how so there is no parent to whom you do not obey is discovered. The truth is not de- fint, those who dare to attack it, no the dwarf's imagination for various reasons I took the bus. The first is smoked by the ancient tate and fânétité, indeed I made it one with the nature of the universe he put it in the water, nor rising from impiety when He had others common; for this is the Adam of all He expounded the natures of creatures, The first system to all He called them by name
in this GOD ipfè fa? pius per fé, or by between the speaker when you were talking to friends he instilled this of the patriarchs, and pro- of the sheep, to speak in the words of Augustine, you were not a fool in the fields, it is true even in the facries of writing authority Porrò with Chaldàs all My house is stained with the fur of luperltitions one Thare house, of which he was born C9n"Xa- bravado it boiled, in it even the young man when I was ob- the desire to protect this language He willed it, to which truth no harm The tower Chapter V. no harm? record? text like ad The stone of Lydia was proved, the matrix of many others
where? everything verified by reliable authors so also do SS. PP Tertullian, ]rigene i, Cypria- nut Euphebius, Atbanus, Hieronymus, Augustus
and the rest of these A B E L L III.
ces, so many graces eff also ipfi SS Sefi I. PP they are woven, so as not to end the stem of He- let them say: In the law, Hebra? o Obviously confcript with a lock, not efje Or one lit- a branch from which no great mountains depend. Where? or ipfè I was Chryfojlomus as if He seems to approve of these words. Just as an apple is more attractive at length, The second Reason providers Yes, Rabbi Judah wants everyone that we plucked from the ipfa Kabbini, Eliery aJJi)
(ltalbagì (l{adak- this, Vinurnjucundius, which from Eodeprom %eccanati, Abarbanel, amban Akiba the cask of beasts, in which he first condttumfuit innumerable others, whom this gladly so the divine Unarmed, I do not know what the natives did instead of saying of the truth, of the fragrant I don't know what they did pfis facra? his language? to the tyrants already innotuiffe I will know Those who, in part, bauferunt from the work The other rat to the truth of this matter orally, in part the same spirit inspired us to prove
eli ipla fimplicity language? , in fact, everyone has a voice right language? three-letter roots? they are, that in no other language does it happen. they delivered And the Lingule, to whom the God entrusted us with three words He was Hebrew, Chaldaic, and Greek. But what? what are the opposites? the smell? make Chalda? And so it was composed j really I find the famous George imuawm mixed later, to the common Amir, Patriarch of Antioch
ugh! the conference of the philosophers, ipfis from whom and the Primate of the mountain Libarti digniffi-Mw- but they came and broke, that is to say, the firn-mum, who is the five country? language? sponsors Tenia system they go and conftant, viz. with gentle folds, so when the rest? the voices of many languages what happened, but a weaker language? Hebrew vo- ces fint fimplices, as Paulo poft vide- we will, it is certain, be the first of all of the tongues of the Hebrews. Is it true that there is no more brilliant son than this? It is also clear that the rites of luculentius or from ipfa prima? va names inltitu- tion à protoplafto fa&a
where? no Greek, Egyptian and Baldaic, or Syrian ca, fèd pure Hebrew effe, not another, nifi his language? we need you blasphemy For in order to re&è Abenera in Geneva: Mustard is of one's lips, lin- gua una, cuz it is Hebrew, ideò ipfa lin- the first of all guarantees
to weave Mina, Adam, Eve, Cain, Ham, Seth, Phaleg, and as many others as I can find in the text are happening The tenuous reason is fumigated by the secret, and full of innumerable myths his language? , in which how many letters? pitches, so many myths, how many did he fill? vo- branch nio j five some other incentive im- pulfùs, nefcio, certainly in the Grammar Syriaca Uve Cbaldaica, nothing intended he leaves, so that the language was Syriac the prince of all tongues protect, of which all the arguments they collide with him, to offend, the tongue Syriac, which he always with ChaU daìca confuses, therefore the first many others, because from the first with them, that is, Chaldxis proceeded. Ve- CbaU is made from its arguments the Da'ic language almost fuiffe Hebrew, which I am so proud of. to his sons Sem y Cbam fapbetb first poft dilu- the way of man They were leaders of the race Cbaldei
for that region where did they shine? already Armenia? Syriam Affyriam, part Comprehend Arabide once upon a time, under the name of Chaldea, I will take him, as before Aria Montanus, Adricbomium, 'Beroaldum, most of them others are found in the literature mentors, but not these re-enforced leaders
used A T H A N there, where from the first patriarchs of the world Adam However, Henocb was taken, but the others were not was, than the Hebrews, therefore Cbaldai went If you speak the Hebrew language, eat it. over there gua
where? poft confuione ca? tera- God's provident tongues His teeth remained in the house of Heber he found the name So whether the The first language is called Cbaldaka a nation, live Hebrews from transfit Abra- ba, or from Heberus, as I said
five à Sy- ria Syriaca, live from Mefopotamia Mefopota- ASII Klrcheri ajo fuiffe at the beginning of Cbaldakam, or ScEì I. AJfyriacum, the neighboring Hebrews. I suppose he was fertile, all idioms tics from the original, some doctrinal fèu descending; eff, as is evident from the languages of Cbaldaka, Syria- ca, Arabic, JEtbiopica, which? when all the first-born son of Hebrews, so much so also greater corruption what kind of pay is it, how much from the origin it hides more, how in Greek language? dialects, and in daughters
Latina linguXjItalian, French, Hifpanicay Mica, certainly it was one and the same language To see Lufitanica it is Therefore, at the beginning before the confluence of tongues you want, I mean the Hebrew language, which rum. You differ in many ways with names from different peoples who used it burning dead And so to be understood flint words Arabic text, which? in favor of them cites from the Maronite jacket? Icripturf co- Donors call the fancta, the first of many tongues, and the same than GOD the first in- it had spilled, where? and from the impious tribe of Cain
tt0 even corruption straw rushed, Hebrsje lèmper, however, ceu facrum and divinum Wm. say impromptu, that is; And from twice! office in the house of Ada and her truths Yim diYifa Junt language, ? ram ceftiva remains uncorrupted, so that this from Adam to Setb, from this to Henocb) from Henocb to Noah, &ab this through Arpaxad to Heberus (to which he found a name) and Abraham, from these to the patriarchs and Mofen, and then to other Kings Ifraèl was fuccefiììììè propagated If therefore Cbaldakam, five AJfyriacam the language of the adversary so acci- they pray, that they will be the same in fact with He- braa, because the first inhabitants of CbaU other. , as it has been said, the tongue does not fint ufi, than the Hebrews, early there ori- ginali, they say well. If indeed Cbaldakam if they want to separate from the Hebrews, and with idiomatic poft language rum confusion in Cbaldaa theme, I mean the same mini- I am the first of tongues should be said and from corruption language? Hebrews promanante, from the origin he did, and a mixture of various peoples tion trade for so long the greater the corrupt paiTa becomes, when to the source of the rivulet is more distant. I mean however their language is Syriac. First of all, nor that not to every translator, approved, faith is to be had, certainly pious words to be understood, as I said, Where is Syria for Afiyria? when Cbaldaa is confused, fic- as a container with content, luculen- thrice it is clear But he calls Epbre the Synaca language, the first of languages, idiomatic source, this is why it should be done what the country does and the Hebrews most closely related that "Veruni as ha? two? slowness? tan- let them be reconciled Conciliate At first I suppose a double tongue in fact eff lacris iiteris from the beginning of primacy One original, which ttiigux-
You may call the issue, that in it my knowledge of such tears as the inftitution of the profane it is done, and I brought such fuilTe Hebrew, as desired We will try more. the other idiot matic
five owls, as the whole common to any nation, and this TOWER Chapter V. however, following the Chaldaic language He wants Hebrew among the languages of antiquity Language
to obtain chaidaa with the eye. Who these heights in- prlmZuttofpexent, easy tamofam this He- this place bet imguanmy Qbalddka languages of the first
you direct the conflicting litcm met. Syriac or even by no means dem with Cbaldaìca effe, lèd in letters, I wrote a rich letter, you want time the bus arose, no other authority was needed, as that Elite Levite Afcenai, of both magiftri peritiffim, than preface that Methurgeman Abraham thence, because of the doubtfulness of Seti. I. three of the first places in the future, in the same way dogs received from Adam to Noah orally
O" his first foundation was Shem fi liw Noè, when he ejfet transflu- man, as explained by Ram- ban, go with him there is it, Z? fílli his Abraham was taken from there
it was focused language Aramaea. next to the name Aram, who was more revengeful the son of Shem, according to what is said, the sons of Shem Elam, Aflur, Arphaxad, fîve Cbaldaicum Lexicon with these words Game
tsr farther it falls R. Elias in Thisbe he broke down Said Rabbi Samuel the son of
Do not jît ViIps in your eyes Chaldai'ca web gua, indeed we have come read pbtfis, w bagiographers, that GOD bene- said, to whom the glory becomes, in the law of teftimony
r have spoken the language of the egi Chaldai'ca, and this idea, eh that bac Vici- na becomes a fancy language for all other languages gua
Lin- gua Chaldai'ca ipfaefì linguafantla cor- broken: fame too efl, which once before they spoke in Syria that he should be corrupted Or Chaldea the language of the children is fimplicit. Thus R. Elias in the quoted place. But when she was corrupted, a difficult question it is among the authors, various allege various things times, as I mentioned a little before the author, what language do you use? for both, so tem- pores and hiftorias pentimmo, fen- do, which is so different in the quoted place. Why? therefore, when the Hebrew language, and was the language used in the past Voices. And so he said to me, that which is adulterated, is sometimes taken away j mouse He prolongs the days 'Life goes on, ideò Vocata was the language by name I was an Aramaean. And when Abraham came the earth Ca- naan, it was baked it is go all his sons Canaanite Fermon
what was the language fantlafimplicitely, V even when we three would stay in Egypt, not left they run it, the Rabbis say to us that they are fat. The Israelites did not change three things in Egypt. Names are fua, Veftimenta fua, and the language fum Therefore, the Hebrew language is clear the end of all tongues is controversial ancient flame, even the first; Syriac and the Chaldeans fîve 'Sabylonicam Effe the same daughters, and everything between authors Controversy about primacy tongues wagging, only from with a certain calling of names or so effete, that therefore it is easy for all He will overcome the objections it becomes who you know the reasons given in this place are well understood he will read Investigated therefore the first line of the world wow there is nothing else snow as his the form of the characters
to write tell the reason equal shot love ca- Athanasius Kircher Cap. Vl. Sit down L CHAPTER You speak the language of the Samaritans
whether really Aflyrius or Hebraeusyfr. .Emonftrato in the previous ones
Belifco Tampinilo, variiC which arguments Incapacitating He- Bràìca language primacy, oftenfis, too, the first mm monuments, nothing more it is like snow, which is the early spring the language of the common people was chara&er
de- we will show I admit it is great, from to them, what a beast, with the exception of Morino non- by no Rabbis, not tempted a deeper argument; I dare, however, The wine of the god is safe. But not I doubt many future Ariftarchs, who help my labors more feverishly to mark the fint issue; while you question them I seem to have heard you long ago, and how You know the letters of this kind ancient truffles? who informed you the matter, the letters of that kind, which you have produced not the effete of evil men that is the comment of the impofts
that hujufÌTiodi did not bring out a few God, to whom, while everything is in doubt they recall, and the author's reasons for they disrespect everything, they disapprove and all those who remember antiquity their minds are slandered give
they fail they laugh, not the other way around reason to meet (as already a long time ago shame Villalpandum) where be the same which me veÙicmtAriftarcbj, re- I will arrest those worthy of arrest, that let Scytbas and Garamantas ever believe extitifle, and have faith in the referent but they did not see anything, Conftan- tinopolis, Calcutta, Japan, reli- which more famous cities, and no less really deceived be true where? The Hebrew grammarians deliver, I think it's a literal fic fcribendairr, fic but But the whole thing it does not work, but the abomination of reason in other words, faith in things of this kind do not apply, where? from all end controversies were received, and common human convention runt j fic would also be reckless, re- bus in the middle bringing troverfie, without any authority verifying facts, denying credit fight Reasons and moment%ex- it depends on the preferences of each one, first- than to plead for levity or deception them
they weighed the arguments of the party, as many as they found doubting reasons
to others stronger used they took off But these things I say rim
as no one considered, demon mathematical analysis of all pro- putting reasons offend me poffe
fed you are wise, and every discipline ture to a trained man I will fi qux by approved scribes let them be confirmed, I propose, or of the mind my conjectures, as if some I will offer a confectionary gator, to whom the two clays of this difputation I liked you. In order therefore to propofi- let us approach the question more closely, first of all, she husband, AJJyrio? fèu Hebraìco Ba- bylonic agitated controversy through we will examine the parts, and finally which and to all the difeuflìs fententiis, what do we let's try, and how? the presence They wish to be reconciled, we will declare. only TOWER Chapter VL
I kill disputes about Aftyriacum feu He- brxum sr samaritanum cba raBerenu Rabbi I find four Rabbis around propolita thcfin slowness The first AflyrSo is of those who say that the Samaritans e? Samari-rurn iUum, early cbaratlerem Hebrew Thus the Babylonians fantasize Dolores Zutra HoMrf, tractatu San- hedrin fol. ii. Scn. The words al- I read
back safe from the law tr given to them in the day of Ephraim? in fcriptura Affyriaca, lingua Syriaca? e run for ìfaatìe. fcripturam Aflyriacam, fan nail they left idiot tis fcripturam Hebrai'cam
sr Unguam Cnalàicam. Who are ifti Idiote? %efpon- ra Hebrai'ca? Chafda again writing it is Libonaea. of this also a supporter of esl Jole in the Talmud Hieroiòlymitano lèd. i. of Tracy; Megil- la, whom he restrained, ffiabbi Juda Traci: Megilla e. i. no. In every way he wants, neoterics The Womb of the Affyriacas effe; Sa- true Hebrew husbands. It is not among the books, Thephilin, Mezuzoth (that is, those frontal to bind the lolita of the Hebrews, the phyla diet in the Gospel) another difference, snow that the books were written in the language of the Romans; The- But Tephilin Mezuzoth not fcriban- there is snow on the tongue Aliyriaca %abbi Si- mon Ben Gamaiiel also says in the books not effe permijfum, utfcribantur nifi Gl'I- ce. To this they slowly fúbfcribunt ThaL the commentators in the Gemara, as Bartenora's badass too the liar approves as a calculus when he says The Hebrew Scripture is the scripture that Ve- rat transfumen, ir CutlixifiVe Samari- they will burn in it on this day, really BEL Li B. III. IS3 tura Vero, with which we wrote the books of the body, Seti I. It is called AiTyriaca. The same pro- He affirms both in the same words. To these We add to the teftimony of the treatises Megilla, Talmud Hierofolymitanijfetl-. l. fol. One. i. where about charaótere and the language in which Ephraim had written the law Among other things, hxc refers to many things. AiTyriaca eH ipfi (fcil. JLfikx)fcriptu- ra sr is not a language, Hebrew is the language of ipfi not a record. They have chosen to register AiTyriacum Unguam Hebrxam
Why is his name called AiTyriaca? because ipfafelix is infcripturafua All these things clariflìme explains this in the same place fol. 194. coi K. Samuel Japbe these words. But I'm sorry, which in the times of Daniel The Hebrew script was changed ca, in which the law was given, the inscription AiTy- riacam, and the law of Aflyria was recorded aiebws Efdrx. From all of them here It is confirmed by the extensive teftimonies cited
most of the Samaritan Rabbis ratlerem liebroeum fuifTe, exiftimàlTe: etfi between faith with so much ambiguity how much, and in the business he made a liquid approach unconfident
as (there ipfis not how often do they contradict each other and therefore what it is hard to get hold of it. Another slowness is theirs, lunt, he received the Affyriac cbaratler Ephraim from the angel, and Fuiffe from ancient times Hebneus will change into Affyriacum. When for the people Iphraeliticus in 'Babylon of years would lift the captivity
gradually to use the law, and thus character to be forgotten, it happened, they say, that
at the same time the angel 'Baltbafari in appearing in the midst of the feast, and intent à D E O writing broad on the wall, would introduce a change of character and they want this same elTe, by which they are to be aired They use Judtfi everywhere. There are Talmudists who want Daniel teach him a new character deeos, Efdramciue relieto Cutbàs chara- take pity on the Hebrew who is irreconcilable hatred in Cutbeos? like a polluted abode threat IS4- Athanasius Cap. Vl. they were threatening, let him elect the gem would burn; dialémm vero Hebrew am lcgi reftituifTe, Cbaldaìca repudiata, vax in the captivity of the most numerous at Hidxos had become ill. So R. fapbe. And so I thought it does not seem that the facts have changed (it perà Efdre, nifi fblius, etfì for the writing of the angel was Aramaa, id it is Ajfyriaca and the language of Arammo, less when Ephdras came to write give the law did not change the form of the law fed only the record, which was renewed it was in the days of and it is clear from this which is recorded
it is written out of the file éxempkrJeu id 7fcriptu- I changed the ram, which was due: true language where it is written, she was Hebrxa, and Tancia, as a principle Veruntamen hi va- They think that it will be written in a whisper her not y fèd another from all diverfàm fuifTe; in which verfì flint, as a fibi in all contradictions candles are seen. For some say, A Juddis in Babylonia did not understand otam, that Gamatricè Tcripta was that is the fenfu of the Kabalic fools I know, that is to say, what they call letters combination, exchange. The true author is R. Simeon in Rabbinic fashion let's give 'What Un- Dick R. Simeon, not registered here The state is unchanged. What is it? they could not read Jcripfit an- encryption
ipfts was written, Jatheth Jatheth, riJ aC; push button; the interpretation of which is: then to him ì Man, Tekhil, upharfìn. Morning, count um.
God blesses your kingdom, He has perfected it; you are dying; upharfìn, the kingdom is divided yours, and it is given to Midas rPerfis; Sa- muel Aaltran. tf{abbi also said to Johanna, Anam, A' for Lakath, Nifrephu. R. ATe said. Nema, Nema, Ketal Phurfin. And this is the source of the Rabbinic Tubtilities, which while they do not emerge from the dirTiculties They don't want to say anything, let them be seen Klrcheri they are mentioned, to whom, however, the commen- Secl. you nothing Infùlfìus efTe poteft. Let them see more, to whom they like this kind of nu- gamenta, at Morinum Exercitat. He tries. the Samaritans, from whom this let's smoke The third category is those who lunt Afjyriacum cbaraSlerem true, a genuine Hebrew TuifTe. But the fourth tendency from this difcre- bread, where he speaks in a different way, for he says I was a double fuifTe cbaraBerem Hebrew true, wise and profane, this (fc. profanava) of the Cutbceans, viz. Sama- ritanus, but that (the wise) Affyria when he was Of the characteristic rur- they are diverging. Others say They can only be written with a simple character There were two tables and read the book who was gathered in the ark, the rest profane, that is, a Samaritan. No- no one says that the books with the character you read me, and the writings of the prophets fuifTe, figuti and her, which one? call the front lia, five phylacteries
but to the profane all the rest, where? to politics they held Thus, among others, Rab. Jomtob Abramides, R. Jacob in the book, which in- The source is entitled the five eyes of Jacob fol. col. against Amoraim 8cTbanaimlih. a. U many teachers, as Rabbi Jo- fepb white And before this feast to all other reasons, more confentaneum soon I will say, for it breeds all difficulties, as will be seen in the fruitful ones. And so the majority of the Rabbis and more about this business those who treat arguments reasons, already so here Gordius is at last encouraged, why? in business while it is done, it must be opened. I say therefore first, the Samaritan cha- Charaftec not rationally
dentally only diftin from Ajfyriacus riaf gui, which here is square, elegant ajftrat beauty
and the other tips so for- met diverfbs, as yet at- that naco TOWER G. VI. and features of charades (which very much noftra anatomy cha- raderiftica paulò I want to put a fuse declared) as to not foolishness it happened diverge
and the same reason they have faith, how to charade Modern Hebrew to charade of the abbines, which the current parTim they call, the largest of which You are diverted it is: for SapbarcUi, five Hebrxi Hi- fpani will write in another stream, in another Aske- not five Germani, another Miriim five JLgypt'ii y Cithiim five Italians another; whom yet with one and the same charadere Hebrew flowed) not all, however experts, skiers with great previous training read the report; that also in all but we see it happen in other languages; so for French se Italian charader ma- read with difficulty from the Germans there, and on the contrary, Italians and Gauls, Hippanis, German, or charader im- is perceptible, even if both à La- I hold as to the fubftancy by no means be different Yes, I say, I say Fé Affyria- when he went to the Samaritan charade Ephdras For Ephraim, with whom I would write ritwvu'm together with charadere almost oblivion tra- to be given and this one from the first I was decorated thing to read
gem deferì- a lot of jucceiiu times decline- he would see it as flimsy, to promote the study of the law mn ret, and always lean towards him mremjin while inciting in any way t, Samaritan puichrw- our charade gradually degenerated I'm going to give it to you, I'm going to give it a little beauty, and I'm going to shine together rtay, t
with the law reftituiffe omnino exiftiman- while it is, we must not think, Es- dram all the sky rich charade deliver the matter to the people, the matter, and more elegantly, and firstborn of the tables of the Mofài'cars charaderi, as if desired, it will be seen to be more conformable; hifi and therefore more confident, I bring, and I say fecundò, charade- rem Aphyriacum five Ephdreus in facris fcribendis fuiffe used
in pro- but you are a fan of Samaritans. So Obadiah a BEL L III.
Commentary on Bartenora Mifha-. fr&I. joth, Meièchet jadaim, perek. no mere y. these words It was written in Hebrew ca it is that he comes in the region across the sea, but Cuthiim, who the rope of the Samaritans, they will fall upon him each day And Israel used ifta fcri- corruption in profane things, and silver coins tea, that dwarf bodie is found in mantbus of you, strike it is time for me Ifrael, and the offspring of the same record. and the book with which we will write books today dieiturfcriptura Affyriaca, eftquefcriptu- ra of the tables. And it is called Afìyriaca, which is happy and beautiful, according to that: Pro- I am blessed with my happiness they will say son All this is confirmed another one with R. Mofem Alafcar refponfionum e. R. Jebuda Mufcato commentator books Hearts at the Dying whether As for the others, R. in a book entitled Lumen oculorum e. although there is a lot of back and forth He said, at last, that he was confident iisy which are said and commanded of the Phillin Mezuzoth then the Aflyriaca must be written, and how They are elaborately elaborated on the stems of the bees of letters, infers Here they lead us to believe that Aflyria Let us celebrate with Merit integrity I have not been given any other scriptures
'ckara&er than Aiyriaca. effus, by which the law is written in tables, and they obeyed it but Ephraim never changed I'm almost out of books and memorabilia ria abolished, utpotuit, reftauraìfe autuma- mouse Nor do they perish in vain supporters, from a better note? Rabbis K. Jacob in Oculo lùo; the whole business he clearly demonstrates both of these, with words
Behold, a certain smoke the completion of the tables of the law, which was in Arcay it is never changed, so it is written by Ram- bam in com. Mifhae in trad. yes since the writing with which we will write is ipft it is Athanasius Kircher by which law GOD bless it, and
Hebrew from Ephraim into a better for- It is called AlTyriaca in size and glory, mam, and more gathering, to the futium with the beauty next to it: Because read the people
or ipfi they will call me happy filix, &fio ditta eìt with the beauty of your character, as a diót AlTyriaca, which becomes blessed in fuo ebara- ed, exciting change fuilfe. And- To drink To him as a stone gives, that Affyriacus characìer, quo bit R. Samuel Japbe: for he wants this j of the written tables of the law, at that time full of myftery with pitches, so that le vulgarem, (ed only legal j all chara&er, how The phylaeteria of those fcribs are lolita, but esters j it will be seen
mystical all the monuments were of any kind lymbolic, that of the Samaritan di- annals live of Hiltor, public mo- figures; the fig tree and the Samaritan tree chattering, who at that time there is no reason to be able to: it was too much at first implicit provided with slopes. I add another thing, there ve- it was vulgar, they were conscripted. As well as j ra liint, where? they report More Zobar, From here it appears that the truth is indeed false j %afii in the chapter of Exodus, the tablets le- j"' we learned about the charaótere lacro, and pro-! gis fuilfe, according to the tradition of the ancients, to the fan, this (profane) Samaritan il- the light; (Tacrum) Ajfyriacum fuilfe Ve- tuiffe, from which the intermediate b! through rum the words of the Author quickly
for so parts t? final, d by a miracle says: they were to prevent the excavations from falling. Un- ISlibilominus because of the perfetlion the only argument give the law to Lolo AlTyriacus, viz write the fanSlity those in in those days they did not write it, even in the book, in which bm fcribebat ex y or any pro fé ipfo, fed fcribebant them fcriptura He- brai'ca, because the ark was hidden, forgetting the string of letters (idejl, of those, qua bit are placed in alpbabet, t? jìrìales another they drank duSlum) immediately migrated to AfTy- riam; And the sons of Alfur will know that the wild pturam, ideò they accepted the amphibians, or something before with them ejjet, for he had become acquainted with them From the book I make the prxter I write; Or They coveted what had been theirs. Filly but Ilraèl affueVerunteafìmul with them from that time onwards. And this is, pro- as it is said, afcendijfe with about them Amar, fed in the days of ElHra was given to them To write a book of law, the rest of the biography pba, cbaratler Videlicet AlTyriaco. Where? the words fly so clear that no one slows down they seem to demonstrate that Patct therefore renewed the characters of the hof- ce no reason elTentially fuilTe di- square to him with an elegant character Icripta, not Samaritan, as his Mem j Samecb easily, fine by any miracle they contradict the miracle of the scriptures, which the old writing tradition They really want to write them down. The truth is we reliótis of the Rabbis and most of them storytellers traditions nollra with a more beautiful foundation ftant, begun in a more ancient antiquity we order the web of inquifition noftrs: in which be a good Samaritan we will demonftrave him with AJfyriacus we use the divine degree from the following table We trust the demonstratives; certainly fa- mofillima? no question pore driven end finally im- I deserved to pollute you glorified we will be able to The table is clear. expose B A B E L B. They Value Literally. - rum The character of the two plex myjuaus ah d. ytgek tra Jxcitur
HriJus Cfiaracter Sa- rnaritanorTmt Vii- alpanJc nummfcie ex- tract Character Jlopócj mw leam on the table aevrotTwt T. f T
yy vv "h X X ih n A T H A N A
according to the records dress up they note which forms indeed from the original language, that is, Hebrews they trace their origin in the alphabet, how previous li- bertini from Rabbinomm to whom I am afraid of such a change in the charades of the multiplicity of fadas upset can be known; the first of which is various among the eastern princes, the system of writing; to others from on the right into the left context of writing projecting
to some on the contrary, from left to right; someone to use the Syrians
perpendicular to the record with fervent progress; what happened it is as if the letters are now inverted, now obliquely gradually transformed they have deviated from the form Another reason is the variety of peoples and nations, ad of whom divide ingeniaufùs conlùe- tudines, diversities in writing also born, an impressive variety of letters gave birth So much so even in this one phew every day I found out; as many nations so many different characters later forms, five of them Latina, five Hebridea, or Graca, and either They were the force of the tongue. The third room was a quick and expedient account of Icribend, from which born among the Orientals it's a charade a kind of rum, which they call running, i. e he is, with a swift hand, and flying, as the saying goes let me draw them with a pen; especially in ufo it is with Syrians, Arabs, Verfas
who the whole of any one's writings or hiftories context, by continuing the connection of letters are carried out Which method of writing among the European peoples alike he found For all the Europeans alphabet of the people they use, from the Latins I bought the letter; The Germans, however, use Gauls, in writing, Ar. abum more, They love to connect small letters; no other about caufa
snow for the more expedient Klrcheri and more convenient fcribendation. SW? . I. As it is therefore plainly evident from the hife, I did not take the Hebrew letters from the Samaritans to differ accidentally, from a different view even though
II. Of Siclk Hebraormn, a Samaritan CharaBere impressed. Examined a little more closely Rabbi in falling suit, of charadere Affyriacus Samaritanus, in- conftantia, I do not find another caufa, of ancient times and ancient times ignorance of the monuments, the rum that grows in the brewery negligence, from whom on which the whole controversy depends it seems Whence we
as fblidier to this We would lean into controversy, no we did not move the stone, which in the anti- than the ancient Hebrews we would come to know each other, and so on tired of some old age the same as a more leafy foundation I would like to make sure that we are safe we will be able to Nor is it flowing in the genius's efforts failed the divine providence teeth: for at the same time various the records brought from the East, in part bundles, partly silver my, to provide me with an invigorating the suit of fiflìma slowness to be dropped occa- fion We're talking about silver coins. of the Hebrews in the first Sicilia, then also about on the other registration shall we deliver in kind Here are found the pallini of Rome
mufaeis, then Collegae Romani from ViUbxxoxum Ubando was once brought from Hifbania. rr
f of the most illustrious men of Francifci Gualdi, differ- te Franafei Angelomi, inelyti viriD. lsa- Return to France, not a doctrine less and knowledge of ancient things, quamriaci the nobleness of the compressible silver nets? with old charades the Hebrews, whom they called Shekels cant. Tower of BabelLib III.
Gp. VI. cant. Coins of this kind in France they called, which? then confued in Seti. I. I also saw myself in various places mini, lust à Morino in exercise not in the Samantha Pentateuch ex- the hood was discovered. They also go to Alato other? from the East by a certain R. Salomon There, where? conjunóta? with those whom from the Sicilians and the Roman mufàds on this side I had collected, the infìgnem prabuére fuse deferring matter. Any of these? registered? they are character Samaritan any? Affyriaco But what is incri- ptio facta fignificet, what hieroglyphic
ca polished in the middle of the characters, quan- do where imprefTa numifmata, already It is time to open up. Two notes go in these numismatics you The first character, who is a Samaritan it is, as the moderns teach the Samaritans, a with whom he scarcely differed in anything, so as to exaggerate them threatening it will be clear Second hieroglyph characunacum interpretation which one? is it the first? indeed I did Siclus Ifràel, fertile? but the face of Jeru- falem [ancia But to make everything clear, with a good method be declared first of Siculus, then of fignification let us not say hieroglyphics. sklorum The Hebrews say the Shekel, this is a weighing, hanging, balancing, that that the ancient Hebrews used money, ChaU give me, the Syrians, not that they numbered us difcretè and they judged his case. See e. verf Gen. And weigh Abraham Ephron moved the four hundred netapublica, or as others read, for mer- to cats
or as Thargum Onkelos has, that it was received for merchandise in each province. Look at me
Ephdr. Ylll. ij. Ephai XLY1 And in the new weaving, Matthew
we read silver priests Judah's coins? do not count, fed ap- hang
whence Symmachus that Zacb. XI. he sra. ifJLina'a. v turns, appen- dermis Therefore the Hebrews put money I was in fact, and I paid the money for the appenjìons It also came to the hands of the Omanis, as dodo (BuUus lib. de affé. dejiajltcu t fiafticus, vulgar Sacred properly
it is called Siclus of the financiers, for doing things deputed, that is to say, to the tabernacle, or the structure and decoration of the temple, to the equipment of the ministry, and the perfection for the propitiation of God, that the redemption of each professional for they were burdened with this shekel of God save money, and have no other King, or Lord before GOD, whose faith they had broken off all the ipfbs, ideò He was also called the boy Ifrael
as it is Jer. L I. V. J. or ransom money or the money of atonement, the fire of atonement and others names called it was Verily, the vulgar in the promipheus ufùm was appointed Silver Ca? terum the end of the Hebrews, as ex in the voice of Gbera, Exod. V. Law. V II. Skhit V. is collected
like twenty he was talking But it is only a small piece of silver, as much as ten bundles of silver grains of barley? com forts Wherefore is the virgin part of the faithful what? then join the parts together they weigh grains of barley in silver to, five as many common filiquas, where? they make Atticus obolos, Roman denarii, the same number of drachmas male Atticus, which as the most vocal they express See where? fuse of hife di- ximus in the Supplement to the Prodrome Co- pt. And confirms that R. Mofe li- bro, who is called Catena CabaU, Traci. about money And we learned from Jabalab that Si- clos to make depends on grains of impure bordei with silver And this is equivalent to Jo- Fephus rebukes these words: But Siclus the money of the Hebrews which is pit draebmas four And here it is the most learned there was Siculus of the Hebrews a little before We prophesied to you the Samaritan charaótere unregistered He has ATHANASIUS Klrcheri Cap. Vl. Money has the first human face, ve sym- feu vafis iftius figure, which one? I will steal loiicù mi- plenam, five homer manna? taking mtfmatum t
tir you are painting return to the tabernacle or the temple a monument, GOD'S JUFLU, Mofi's agency, before that conference while, in the arka'arTervanda was propofita, this is how Exodus v. 33 was held. these spring twice And Thomas said to Aaron, take it One vessel send there Man, how much go- mer caperepotèft, replace the Koran Domi- not to be ferVandum in the generatons Veftras
in Gracchus it is held in good standing s-ctfLLVoc, in Cbaldao tsbelucbkb, this is a bottle. Letters Frarna? it is the same as N of the Hebrews, and the first and the whole Shekel. On the other hand you may look at that wonderful staff than among many Aharom's staff in the name of the meeting tent as well as his priestly vocation, this to confirm as public information
there, and commended, the next day every people producing a branch a prominent flower and expanding life he says: soNum. v. And on the following day I was re-gifted it is Moyles adtabernaculumteftimonùj& behold it flourished Aaron's staff of the house of Levi, the flowers burst forth into gems, which spread out with their leaves They are deformed in the amygdala. And this so indeed, and here two hieroglyphic figures to wood the figs nothing else, than the vessel box? and a staff Abaron's wonderful, ipfimet Juda? i af- confirm Inftar of all becomes tf {both who in Verufcba Mifna here among other things it matters In Veni in Acco, ideH, of Ptolemy, in the hands of the Fenian land mints of silver team building sons Ex one on the side was the Velutifigura Varga amygdalina, and from the other like an urn. But in both the writing on the side of the margin was infallible very manifest. And they found pturam Cutha? is they read it ftatim, since ipfa is a Hebrew scripture, when he died in Cuthaeis, dwells in the Sanhedrin, and they read from one Secl. L on the side
The Shekel of the Shekels from the other [Jerulalem landa: ] they also said branch eff Aaron's Rod, the figure of Truth fruitful effee urn, in which was Manna. And a piece Samaritan hiftoria? The Vatican? , so among other things it has There are also the rest of the awards for us. fmataferipta charàtlere Simron, ex no side of which figure Rod amygdalina Aaron, and from the other the Vessel of Manna, and eu- they gave it to the tfeges of Ifraèl. I say, therefore, this money misma argenteum, cufùm effe a Regi- bus Ifraèl, at which time Charader Sa- He was a popular sailor. But each one I will not excommunicate you, so I am certain, as who he would try to deny it, more certainly he would prove it by the knowledge of the numismatists so efthee alienated the numismatus from fufis, or by some other reason formed to fight, or to do it. vessel au tem Mannari staff AaronióyXim. when at this point, as if some imprefla Siclus Ifrael and Jerufal Sana, I think there with the intention of the Kings of Israel there, as the Hebrews in this ancient numismat I'm walking in the greatness of GOD'S OPT. MAX. benefits, when in the last forty they would be pleased with the bread raised for years, and so many so much miracles would be confirmed by the vessel of Manna, and by Aaron's rod they would recall the indications, and then the people were destroyed by the petitions D E I, a D E O lèmper with magical miracles they should know the defense and the citizens Hierufal landa? which city? local eminence, glory, happiness, cun you give the cities of the world fìiperans, fpeciali à D E O is adorned with privilege, as in it his temple and his house, and his worship pure divine I will pretend be exercised Syml)0, and therefore indulging in this beneficence fmat I was born by God to a people with no non-people at the time of the ancients
not something, as in the fervor of charity, ci- fitta re- and hence the desire to do so well fador continued Verunia Tower of Babel Li b. III.
Chapter vi. Schematifmus one of every kind who was with the Hebrews in ufu$ett- they were, together with the Samaritan interpretation in which you will find the infignites, together with the Myphians fymbolorum fub to those who had been hidden. Samaritan Heb. Samaritan Heb. Samaritan Heb. Samaritan Heb. The first Siculus. Expropriation Ifraèl Schefol I{edofcba I would be mistaken Ifraèl Siclus San&a Jerufal Analyphis. Ifraèl fcehl Hakkedofcba Irufalem. Ifraèl is stuck Sanala Jerusalem At the sides W represents the initial letter fieli. Letters, indeed
indicates the initial letter of the name David. At the time of Judges Num. ancient Analyphis. Much engbet Mengbabo. At the time of circumcision from his fatness IV. No. Siculus V Analyphis. TS2 Samaritan awwrm Jerufal Tacbrutb. Heb. The lyre indicates the praise of God, with its memory earth; which; the cluster marks femperperfolvendarn. Jerufal Jex Solomon Samaritan Heb. Hpty dW Ifraèl ficlus Santi: a Jerufalem. Here It is a stick of later times. Analyphis. Hp nvn? Chm Middle SanSla Jerufalem. The letters are wasted; C W have the same meaning as a stick
VcCi'ià at which time he was running. Jerufal DaVid from his fiUw Civitasjancla Solomon ex. If leftor exact knowledge of these def deretisadeat II. Tora. Oedipus) part. i. claf. 2 fol. 87. 8c he will find all the most interesting drawn there. A T HANASII KlRCHERI Cap. Yl. To use all these things in the shape of them they also touched them cclefte manna of our Priest JESUS Christ the Lord, bread the living j who descends from heaven, make eternal dowry, who femel five redeemed in the temple Redeemer nofter, and noftra forts price is the result, fignificaffe credi- finally, nor any other reason all the asftimation of the faithful I received the Lord arbitrarily, SeEi I. What is this? we said, the styles of the Sicily were referred to as impressive. Ve- room as a reader Tius knows Synopsis in the preceding passage Schematically, more with the eyes of the shooters learned to be expounded by Leotor cenfù in whose clay the Samaritans option, together with the mythic ones pretend cation, the legion is expressed e. vii. Head VII. from the origin of letters and registration. EVERYONE dootorum fur Tragiis no one and pure people I give to the greater god Opt. Max. with greater perfection of mind and body imbued with gifts, fiiiffe, Nor reasons to find out for when God loves all things of the world, which he had created in his generation perfect, fertile body health, strength, proportion of limbs tion, and phymetry, finally to carry out powers as well give complete all the reasons natural, it certainly seemed incongruous there is a foolish man who is so perfect sion of the founders of the animal kingdom, and the future prince was, in the imperfect Adam left behind As God subdues Adam before all- and shame on other pure men who ever less they were to come, with excellent physical gifts nis, as being immediately his workman adorned it, so certainly it was not deprived of the divine providence in adorning him rare and with the wonderful gifts of the soul, talents and perfections the immediate works of God perfect When but these perfections ani natural mae pretend nothing else but of feience, Philofophus tefte, finishing he is the most powerful of all mortals mum fuiffe And also Adamw of the whole human race iffum Doctor of the genus effTet to be
certainly cancrM it was fitting that he should return to the throne of the produóhon the beginning of it rum habit, even some of it is wonderful teaching other people the ability to im- would be bullied When again these things intrusion to become a claw He does not speak at the end of the tongue, it is certain that he will laugh at ufùm effè And when in addition idioms from words, words, no- minibuses, etc. it is also certain, as we may see it will be bitter, Adam was the first take a mate, Lexicon anima- condidiffe lium, and the author of every li- stop the disturbances But what is this? which was the primitive language? the voices that characters
who books registered with them then we shall find it in the fertile, where first the feat of Adam Paul we will do Adam, therefore, had the supernatural illumined by bits, first GOD Adam effus, and by virtue of all things, also the rewarder of honors faith, and without any controversy he believed, and he handed down the same faith to his children. The murder of the sacrificial Trinity
thirdly, Meflias of the Word of the human race the future incarnation of the Redeemer divine TOWER C. VII. Most of them received the divine revelation SS. The fathers believe. Where did she come from? Theology led the way, by The cabal was transferred to the greedy, as in We taught the Kabbalah of the Greeks, great no growth at any time (u BABEL L III.
Pbyfwlo- Na Ada my the wealth of the Rabbis. Instead of all R. Abarbanel, who of Adam in this ver- ba breaks out OmiUa lecitone, I put the Latins. But God created man forever Abar- the greatest conception, and was the body of Adam ane
injìar world cujufdamparVi, in which everything The nature of the greater world works miracles;
His true soul was like a piece of God teaches the scriptures, where animals! so names the nature of each suitable for so that he does not it does not fiiirTe is mentioned, which indeed at the end j And R. Gerfon in this place calls Ada- R. Cer- washed away of the whole nature performance to be done mum. adam fapienttfiimu Sr. Prince otu he could not, pbilofopborum, immediate DEI difeipu- malium, plants, stones, metal j, Animal strength, herbarium rum, mineral virtues, fuper- and trees. it was also
ipla the influence of our bodies too he knows, and whence Phi- loiophus, Physician, AftronomusfuifTe is held And this was done so carefully most profane of all na- the authors of the Suidas before to others the excellence of Adam's graphic he wrote in these words: You sweat. The first man, God's manti ef- er to the image can be called tumfimulachrum, the image of the of mercy mnes animi pure, zsr in- surrounding the corrupt. I went for who I will give I will speak thus, out of that spirit divine thoughts and should I be punished? through almost all They were running through the passage, with great error proper, and of each nature the advantage of turning forward, and whatever in and each nature of things is the most important was, not after the manner of men, who cumlapfu with error te- they just do it, fed by GOD of unity the author, who really knows about all things feit, &judicaty Velpriufquàm notions Let them depart from the soul that gives birth, tspa- they flowed out. Qnx the same after Paraphrases in the Pentateuch Sama- ritan in these words: And GOD slapped Adam, Do- pleVitque jr fcien&! mJL so that from thence all the arts of Ortanus were lustful. as if extruding rent Suidas, having joined them, said: For it is mine who in Venitfengulis o all the canons and rules writing, beyond which they did not pass, adapted Vit. His arts and literature are his rational, and non-rational, of this the i? the oracles of this law don't write
whatever things are necessary for Vtta. All of them your inventor it is math also calluifTe matic iciencies, ne- and I could teach them, Genebrard shows in the Chronicle, whence and that of Ecclefiafticus of ipfo diótum vi- is given For God hath given me of these, that Adam e they are, true feience, utfeiam even the world r Powers of element rum y beginning, ty confummation, sr the diet of the seasons, Vicifttudin permu- tations and confummations of the times, hu- laughing at such thoughts. Which lane ver- changes of manners, dtViftones tempo- Twice nothing is better for the uninitiated i rum, curfus year, difpofttio it may be said To this they are attached pie
Power A T H A N A GfiYli. Vim Ventorutriy t? the thoughts of the hunters the differences of the bushes, the powers of the roots, And wherever they are, they are improYifa I learned j for the artist of all taught mefa- piety Moreover, when nothing came to man of the genus Necefarium fît, and element- of rum, of metals, no one it must be twice Adam who re- whereas the human race of all nature should infuse the loam bat, ablolutiilimam of all these have I infuse the wisdom of the divinity, so that the power and nature of each elements, and all of them among fé combination, and others of these mixed complexion Yj JboiLyuricw perfecìè noffet. Metallic bodies too tures, Self-strength, and the same genera- tions, and coagulation in the earth completed by fairies, as the same purifications, fufions, fixed tions
activities of the human race he penetrated intimately into the cashiers, and at the end human life will not be able to bind them. But more about these elsewhere. Angel Moreover, Adam's particular an- ftruBor. the affiftentia of the gel was broken, many things around the particulars of things results results I Klrcheri examine the desires of the human body. I. kind convergence propagation nor would they be useful to most people, that the Rabbis want, so R. Abra- ham in Jezfira The Rabbis said we know benediStx memoriarfuodpatnbus noftrisfuerunt the guardians of the angels, he was the guardian of Adam Raziel, the seed of Noah, Jophiel, Abra- hami Zadkiel, Ifaaci Piliel, Mofìs deni- that Mitatron Whatever, Adam at the end of the affections of the angels, on the divine throne
surely dead the most important of all, feientif. and ruiffe, every one who admires that gall, and the immediate work of God having contemplated the matter, he will face it. When, therefore, such, and tan- Adam was born, and he was born fit to yours, as if by nature a certain Secretary, divine genius I was disabled dictio ray penetrating, certainly tan- these gifts of genius are not at all from the author nature's own forest let's believe ceffas, fèd to participate you to them, and from a source some distance away very abundantly others derivatives to- then to them the human race would reproduce whether On what account, then, of this kind? divinity given to Adam they have been propagated, it is time to open CHAPTER Cheap The Hebrew language shines forth with wonderful force in the Jtgnifications of things at once, what a scumbag Adam drank. C. VIII. Tk JTI withered the language of He- brea must be seen, what name let things perfectly agree and the same in any way transfpo- fíta, femper fenfìim make it. That as it has no place in any other language let's find out, he deserved it among the rest The leadership of the languages is due. The truth do not bring anything to reason deamur, the most generous of this thing We will give it, so that the reader may be divined of weakness the first of this inftitutricis let him touch the hidden riches, and return However, before further pro- grediamurhìc quesedam prefùpponen- give them, like rules and canons, which supported by the bus, and directed lawfully in the truth We can use the state's investigation. I suppose therefore the first, and not the only support only the conflict of the voice in He- braces TOWER C. VIII braìcis nomenclature, {ed multiple I will eat for sure repetition of the same di- and the people more, conflicts of the Ufurpari PofTe Second, letters V n N n
clay vowels to be understood with pleasure, conib- to the sea even if I don't express they remain and that of the the issue of foni between le let's move tation B A B E L I B. III.
dole, he would difpicert, t f-OjT HD, what vo- Secl. L he lacks them. vto dinh t Sdì H'H Et each one appeal go that Adam soul ViVentis, that is mere his
for he commands the beloved ones: rvb tnp no ntno? ) in order to fpeculate with which He would just call them. Now let us see whether Thirdly, that the plenum of dictions de- in which the names are still given in the language etymological word endings Hebrew, which is the nature of living things, difpofito are not required. What they indicate, they really still express. Fourthly, what is the meaning of the first words Certainly the Rabbis most suggest otherwise various geniuses innotefeat, quickly in which, the truth of this ovo(jLa3s6ivioLS various metathefi letters, live trand indications; among others R. Bec- by a variety of words chai, who from this impofition of names option, or other damage
be gone in genefin's commentary nem, feparationem {hyllabicum, or Direct repetition of words; this on account of the mystical and mysterious nature of any one fèries (with ipfìs penetral words hidden and other things writing internal exprefla elTe is demonstrated. Therefore, these so ritely difpolti, let us now see how just the names I took the first one founder things with clay unfit power, than anything he will cry
It is said in the Midras, He did GOD before Adam all things lia, and called them by your names Or said: now buie respondents to be called nX, ideft Leo; And to that, I answered that this should be called to die, that is affine; go adaliud meet It is called a goat God that is a horse; Or He was making a fic about living creatures
Behold, in this he manifested the greatest futility as he who fimulacbrum makes a fapity God, or the work of the hands of God bus, then from some of his own ho- of the house Or it seems that Midea explains to me the worst of the superlatives appeals
What Adam understood in his foolishness thirdly, finally xenigmatics mma names impoverished I will give in the scriptures the places of significance cations of Kabalic-analytic art (We'll try to make sense of it. Adam So you were formed at home by God I am afraid of the animals, Or Fly- he brought them to Adam to laugh What would he call her? for all that Vo- CaVit Adam the living soul, this there is no man his Here is the first one òvofjLoSsietq origin I therefore do not take names from things, It is clear that this reasoning is improbable, as that the words were born, they deserve For God brought amma- lias to Adam the inmost part given to see, that is, to trust whose nature, inclination, and in- each by a name signifying the nature of Or property mentioned in it; letters quo- that the names of the fictitious do not, now exchanging them, Variously with the natures, or the properties of the ani- mantis combined He continues then Becchai: And here were the notional names WLeo- Fri Verbafua Cognoncens Adam in fapieru Adam fot the tiafuanaturam of Leo, of course eJf&T? S strong, great, or the king of animals, I came to even before I had brought him to God, when he says, GOD will roar like Leo; impose it was the name of mN, eh that of this Itiera The voices of tin are the refpiration of Vebementioris; Ztr fic ipfa ditlio mN Leo explains
grin Athanasius Kircher his significance tirfic Adam did know the name of Vitus, dìwe y ìel tfugau-S. I Cm a
tell him that he was exhaling with a feeble alacrity; wild Hac from Adam pfa elfet queen of all the roads, Volatufaue this name tJ IJ-
Nefra in "which is stronger than all other eyes, painted. " didertt from his operations, when UH was VOICE ptum also it is, that longè olfaciat SuV by which the light VocaVit does not pre-empt every single thing. It was in accordance with my nature. etc a whale of ten years, Volatu fefe extollit j óftciloù arici of all, he said &[ibi
each adtpfamfpberam fire, &pre mul God said to him, "I, by what name shall I be called" Adon, who is the lord of all creatures, ci. in the sea, where the ancient plumes fell, he acquires us in the prbna juventute reftu safe, s thus with clay for ten years to do, and to the hundredth year in which as usual, he repeats the sphere of fire, whence tan- the poor throwing down in the sea I will freeze there Come on I was bridge Jta fcribit R. Saadia Gaun. And on this account, knowing Adam the nature of the eagle:
ipfi is a suitable name by living it MI, since the first l'iterai, ideft ciSum fignificai, fe- ideft fpiritum, utfequttur, my o ideft, coffee, fire, fspirit, fic His name declares the nature of his behavior. He continues further
use the word fa rK in the name of "iiDH, Chamor, ideH Chamor how Aiinus
He knew through his rapture, I am swimming 1ud elfet fatms bajulus pre omni- Relatives bus to the rest of the animate fet to carry the burdens of the prolentus, juxta the property of the name Chamor, ideò His name was Chamor. No other way It does not affect the nature of the horse, because it is of course effet leYu, s? hila it is burnt according to what it has been brought, I Lord, this is my name
He is a cat by this name to this day. Others refer to other things in their comments. run except Tbalmud, any that in the commentaries of the Rabbis we could find this business here we propose a colle&a, as ex to them
propofìto I was a more suitable reader pere pofTit; for he will find many things which: to be admired in Hebrew they will be able to recommend the status. The name Leo is in the Landa language sìgmfi- Arieh, that refined cabalic Z! by the method which they call Tbemura fèmper something suitable for Leo for they are contained in this prophecy with the voice of Lèquentes HXT '"D that is, monflransj feu striking afpetlufuo those who gazed with fear: TXD, id it is, I am an illuminating fire, because I am a fire At the look of which the light is shot
'Kid Rao that is His life was made of a piece of bread: nma HKT 'XI VX'iD, that is, projecting from the eyes I was afraid of lightning. All this here A rieh He rose promptly to war, and called him j paraphrases are contained, as follows:
Leo mi Ì? nvn d that is
I was struck with fear by Ytfu. Light of the eyes of the thieves Illufìrat I see you believe His life is short. Throwing out from him a flag of honor. A dog I pray to all living things where the heart, or then, my heart is with you. A dog's heart and mind are the same, by nature of him is, indeed, a noble man, a man Bile, Viacem, sr cordial. read TOWER
Sjo) tfson n ik B A B E L Li b. III.
It is read in the correct and retrograde order, SeSì. I. signifies the same, as fi dixifTet I will give: efi intelletlus itbi for now my heart, my mind, my mind The milk is churning. A cow that is, ideft, Who I will be the head of the head, for the horns and the head of the other animals JBos dominates my head.
I know Dia Man no indi iko a io ai am d-ix bpk Man man the five virtues of GOD, when he fell, he will be lifted up, and GOD Wrfi- and his strength And to return to the name of Adam wall, fertile others to wood that which that rational assessment, or a the filiation of things, which are held by difcurfùm: for it is the reason, or ra- national, DT but efiimatio, or ajìimi- extension for every achis of human judgment either it is about some quidity of the thing, or his friendship, for as straight Alab- the wild one sneered, is also in Greek òiv3p0ò7r@J
it is, trusting with the rattort, or, how let the matter be drunk; for the same reason because of the fact that his friendship it is split Thus, therefore, all animals God led to man, that is, reason able to judge, and whatever pre- he said of any thing, this is the name its definition; for he pretends name position, failure rwn ain a mfi within ow Dian hop'i t'n Ho D Et He called Adam's name He was a wife, because I was a mother of all of the living Like Adam we have said to represent the same voice, the general development of the matter through difcurfù, so mn HeVa there is nothing else than fi- gnificatio y enunciation, própòfitto: m for it is the same as indeterminate in true przdi catto classification of the matter. Hence Heva's mother it is said of all living things, because every what is produced by the intellect through afTenfù cine, it becomes necefTariò by propofition some for nothing is accomplished by in- telléém is generated, nifi by afTenfù either tacitly, or expressed But whatever seems verifiable is true faith of the understanding, and through the afTenf there, it is said to live mythically. So make to use a propofitie indefinitely holds in faith all propofitions determinable things, lest HeVa was ma- three times of all living things. So you see how are Hebrew names not tan- then various fècundùm letters and caught, fed parabolic, allegorical, which includes Infinities of this kind to bring me the pofTem, verum as Le- ttori finding material leave the mouse, like most animals a combination of different types of metathefeos We wanted to propose refblut
the method of refblution defeat curiofùs Le&or, fimul from various names of the animal kingdom of nature suitable, to elicit Com- C. Vili
Athanasius Kircher Combinations of fenfu qui fub names animals hide Sit down I. wnflrcus Elepbas Eagle Vardus
I was in the head fic of the caiteris. fft bji
3Jn. V'itulm. OfcO Monoceros no LJrfa. DJ Camel
The names of the letters, given to the living creatures by Adam. ìtik Leo -)ian j
Tin Pig. ITron Chicory
no no What -ra Ktn wine im n dark jw? k nna Mr. Si nTno
pna HHT enter UPP pious (TW inai May nrir TjOT IKiT Lord onm ynp3 dwarves nnoT npa Mn lam HTI rpan oin
rom pjon soda man HD'ni aj5n van inai 'No nnDi bread kth onn I didn't raptured by ship no snatch And T U R R And these things flint paradigms tathefèos of the names of some animals evil
which: curioiò leòtori propo- we thought that the artifice of cavalier when he saw; as with the letter? of the name of any one in any way transferred: They already have a signification, as many and great, when about names then around the entire I got rid of the poMìnr, from this as from the claw of a lion would wear The significance of the figures We could not do better given works, as leave something for the explorer to find B a b e l Li b. III. : ntt? e en ne rve rr 'ne
on behalf of Abel, whom Cain was born. In this place we take #fl for Abel; ed for Tofcb the same as eVulfor, cu- juimodi Abel the thread, the name his it offends; for God is intent life of all things, prxter GOD, strength ScbaVat but for Inaili lumi- mouse, because here the shadows, and the bus of perishable things, while the hunt is on he lost true good; instead of which Seth Sett. l we want; that the reader may also see j is fubftitutus It is seen that in How many Hebrew names do you want to use? the name of Seth is beautifully woven together teat, and how varied, and multiplicity of wood ficano
so that here also I will give proper names, together with myfti- ca fignification to be explained we are Geneva so read about named Seth: And Adam married and she gave birth to a son, and she called his name is because God has fed me another woman for Abel, whom Cain killed. The name ntf is derived from the verb aie, id it is defended; it also means not to grade, reVellere y dijfohere, me febei- Vat y acquale fignificat
so as to combine no metathefeos of this name let him reduce this fíib fête. quoted should be contained. Gen. true of the name Abraham it is read thus: "I'm fine o-ok. " wow: ypim D'u sa o erro na npn I don't know: inv: noe me a ne noe Nec vom- Abram, yei you will be told Abraham, because the father of the multitude of Pen-
Sarah also thy wife shall not be called Sarai, fed Sarah will be her name. Abram's name it signifies the exalted father, the father they believe those, whose name is variously combined, and refined by cabalic art, still innumerable other fenfus, this He returns the theme. o-dk dìtok nan God adorned in Abraham eo Om m 3K Pre wgwo alto nj-oaro yzrw' infpeculo quodbreVi (citò) niNa H' great j-née Mrs ài Syriam Dm Di 1"D feilieet to éy&r magnus, cy ex- WOn -fcfilius of the Creator, feiliet Chriftus Orna' ini ijfe UberaVit them, easily. my children a little xnaa from the bitterness (of sin) (fcil. devil) nanna from makdi&o in faith Dm3 Abraham. Anagogic also in the same way can be explained from Alabaster. Because it was painted signifies the center, 8c pnnapium mnis expansion, five corporea? , five in- telledual; Here Abraham is the center of the multitude of nations, my Catholic rum Athanasius Kircher C. Vili, the rum of the Gentiles, because that is worth it
it is for on the confession of many men ta, total denotano, whence jinn quafi peace, id ed: a faithful multitude of Catholics grasp it with one complex, because
Abraham was the father of all. And di- ed obfervatu, that the patriarch Abraham was a figure, not Christ's son, true also of Vetri apoftolorum you take: for Abraham is fat D E O patriarci cognationercrrelin- complain
then ordered Chriftus Vetro, in order that the faithful might be made faithful to all
just as Sarah had been a child for a long time Abraham's wife which one? Vetro into marriage but had not yet borne children, and Abram's name was changed to that is braham, the center of the multitude of the Catholic Gentiles, given to Simeon it is called Cephas ideft, the cardo ex- panfionis, five centrum univerfse dirTu- fiona It also means Abraham Dk God's easy The Omani Tatra: for it was done promise to him, that in his wife all the nations of the earth would be killed; so in the Vetro, which was poured out upon him, and fed let the house be built for all who blessing in the Crypt rent And just as SVeabla- then there is the reproach of fertility
through change of name, interposition ywxLex Vetus J-TB'an KK Snow through the shadows t? dung dirt equal reason we will find out if you twelve names of children Jacob Cabalico refòlutis technique, ra- even litigants n so Ecclefia: dempta e&Setl. I. the indignities of impurity through the cross terpoliti contact, when all nations fub one cloth covering ad the Catholic church is wide. Who Caba- the artifice of the brook has been searched, he will also perceive in no- minibuses, pnv -WnvxIfmdel&Ifaac, the account of both the weaving, rice new
with two names the rum of the brothers Jacob Efau clearly repra he will see the smell of the fire of the Catholic Church in this world, and the beginning of the tri- sweeping For in the same way agoga had faith to ecclefia
as L fmael ad Ifaac, so ecclefìa prefènes ad the future in the destruction of this world di fé has, as Efau ad fabob: so baft And so the fynagogue is called habuiffe a shadow of things to come, not a shadow of things to come image: ecclefia has an imagerrc, but not the ipfàm ipeciem of the truth, fcà according to the ceremonies of the Christian religion, covering the entire Catholic teaching to, it is still stored, until it comes Jacob, who was Dn times perfetlus, which is called the end of Ephraim of this dung, and the beginning of the fertile im- mortality, as it happens. prw Lex noVa JT Pror God made me a reef, that is, He rejoiced in his joy. He will run with me, that is, con- God incarnate will be made. The Pure Truth is this, tions ipfàs, for which names if you unfit, as it is done. pitti Tower of Babel Lib. III.
Reuben. 'n nose the Nile That's right GOD humble state mine Vir dil'mt me Simeon TV) Levi listen God
couple there that ex- ofa My husband to me And he was satisfied to me fever because for I married him children also this one
myrrh Judah min mine God praise Lord bor Sit down Dan. Jan IlTachar. nzs "Itl'N Naphtali Gad. Bring He judged The TV was broken TD happy thrice ncw rope He came GOD tAdsj exd' that VTJ works rich n&d with his cemuldy afifliElio' nVn3Ji Vitilrix not mine and he gave to me I was worth it.
I in the market son mine (Blessed because happy give me cent many more Zabulon. to me GOD born ptf a reward mine because I gave I
mine jfrap will remain with me My husband because pro- I married to him Jofèph. pam Benjamin flowed away to me God failure he adds to me n' GOD adding another fiofepk son dexterity son mine from no Haecferè from Alabafir. A lot of this quaminir, the names of things perfect let us think of bringing our daughters instead, it is true ere to meet, and their letters how because of them in the Kabbalah of the Hebrews any transfer received, fìios We went here to stick to them for a long time of the matter, as denoting the appropriate ape- we did not want Enough of this point, that j rirej that lane fi any other, huge it was propofit to us, demonftraffe, both ancient and ancient no other languages besides language is an argument. ca. Athanasius Kircher Chapter Sit down I.
CHAPTER T)e Myjlicis of the Copts y whose language one of the the original language Have Copvu in the universe Teras whose figures names, powers, in front of the hu- to contemplate the right of the work set forth, and Here they confound his alphabet, which Indeed, with the ancient Egyptians the same fi a few letters for you, indeed, there is an oitenium in the Prodrome. Just like that indeed chiefly of the Hebrews They wished to spread the alphabet that ipfe letters, lua myfticà conftarent fignification, elements of literature, the elements of all things as he explained the Cabala in Hebrew Oedipus, thus the ancient degenerates of Egypt contrary to the truth of the Hebrews gine, but of the ancestors, whence they gave, as if pretending, they were spoiled, like letters, chara- and indeed the figures diverge and the fignification with the Hebrews in all effets of the mysteries ordered Hofce read the old mythagogues the skin of the CoptiU is retained the ancient alphabet a kind of parallel reason many fane, which {àcrofan&a: fi- Noftrx gods are concerned with myths, fub with figures of letters of this kind, numbers, and thus abdicated by mythical representations they gave, so that this iplb in all faiths afTectaffe hint that great that Dwnifius the Areopagite, you have been in the Myphicians books about DiYin. the ninth chap. hilce fimi with his own words, Paul indicates: Mind He quickly repounded his opinion the neck, the chest, the mind, the desire of the belly, but of the legs and feet to note Who knows everything from the mind diet of the ptior hierophants in the Oedi- potrafi of Ineroglypbkis partium Imma- nor do we hold fast to the corporal symbols. What else is that staff of St. Tauticus? Self in the hands of the Egyptians diem T letter form denotes Sneeze that cross of Serapides, my son the rule of clay, the symbol of righteousness, the future? like life? mystical teffe ram, of which Vrodromus fufius tra- support the clanging Indeed, the mythical characters the third time, when those first ygypt. Fathers the impressive knowledge of divine things cti trusting a great deal with you You must have an affinity with the myths of faith they would seize them, and put them in the same place to those who were solely responsible bant, tranftuliflè Epiphtola? some St. Pacbomius Theodore his disciples, of whom Gennadius Maffilien mentions fis lcriptor pertufulus, ad diveda Egyptian monafteria drawn? , which are not so discovered a long time ago, for the son of Rem public literary affection, with me he shared Luca HoU the philologist Fienius we clarified: in which of old to write reason prorlùs He seems to be offering, while he is crying the secret of divinity, now the secret of ani- What is the connection between God and life now? abftrafiflimis lane metaphors, I will prepare and in the first place, now out of form, and the shape of the letters, already from the numbers hidden, sometimes out of a pile of letters gnification delumptis, thus appofitè de- He writes, as the hierophant of the Egyptians, Monks leu Vytbagora a certain Sami, fJC you would say that you were reading the fymbols. you! b
er- Remember this secret? I will teach the method of injection nem Tapam, Soomenus book bifl. m. Ecclesiastes e. where ai t in the table of Vachomius, which is carried by an angel pt TOWER OF BABEL LlB. III.
Chapter ptumfuiffe: The whole assembly on the claiTesjuffu angels diftinétum effe, and
business, with a renewed intention clay clay tiles letters the Greeks to any end for one's own advantage, called, juflìiTe also, as v. g. fill up they would be called faster and or and the brave fire verfipelles or g, as others of others letters known they would be called, as the form of the letter clafhs of life you two apt it would seem to express the life of St. Pachomius is thus read. Track was also, according to the number of elements Rum, Greek letters, twenty-four a group of monks would be confounded in such a way that they were put on forward and forward to m, so that when he asked who is Arcbimandrita about someone; in the multitude
dine so facili refponfione know Vg. when he said what kind fus A I don't know any of my cousins letter of threats each team's behavior would express, more complicated, and more innocent bus and imposing a name, more difficult but J competently accommodating, so that by way of conversion (sr pracepti, guls troop? elements of literature rent, folisfspiritualibus bac ipfa qua figni- Ideally, they should be made ìlttbus. As the truth llcctor kept some part of this iltfctpltna
from iEgy- Icnption, ejuique iolution lpecimen mIhZ'o- vieat? it was only this one to propose a paradigm of myths: that from the first JwjTnia St. Tacbomii epiphtola we picked jet fic en jm jn what epiphtola to Cor- nothing Archimandrite monafterii Mocbana wrote Pachomius. make pus Jauda Put Delda before your eyes, that your soul may be well. Cane km, not by chance Make a cfpus staff to you he sings forgetful power JjQtlendarum Is it a calendar? are Pafcha? And what about others? we fidious language? Coptic so interpret the wall Expob j)um therefore in the epiphtoles fiiis says Ab- "Bas Pachomius Do Jauda, man fan- He does not understand anything else, except what he who to the eminent religious life fta- and the benefit of the refpeon is carried out. For that juovotg among the numbers, id Jota among the Egyptian letters, è qua fJu as the least of all, all the rest the letters are composed, thus (incera reeta humble intention before GOD verfàtio, ceteramm aélionum, work and high-flying in the fspiritual to be used for the first time in the building it is the foundation placing Wherefore the children did not deserve it A man applied the law, who with impoi- the mud from this fkculo, nothing yet from the false ones the lure of worldly things verint, in the pure nature of infinté, with no end by trickery, fraud, and premeditated intention they rejoice in carrying out the wretchedness, as well as Jota is the Egyptian language
nothing else how small does it denote, or does it not apply and it came to him that the chief magistrate nema
let the snow be made like a little bird, no you will enter into the kingdom of the Greeks
alluded to? And this is the first time that, however, I'll leave it to others to understand more. And further in the same epiphtola he says
go Put A put your glasses on, so that the soul before your eyes yours seems to indicate nothing else snow over there perfidious imitation of the divine virtues becomes the soul5 tion, next to it: Eftote perfective utipater Veter is perfect in heaven, because it is through that union, conformity that understood, voluntary with the divine For with Plato tefte The first of all figures is made, which all the other figures, that is, of all the perfections of beings, which are as it were some numbers and figures? into which all are refolled, certainly fiamma ratione à prifeis patribusid pro divine effects? fymbol, divine that of treachery and emanations the archetypal aiTumptum was, as fufiùs in noftra bieroglyphic geometry often we give
really Athanasius Kircher AUeg. Canine while x. u Chapter A must therefore be placed before the eyes that is, the perfection of divine perfections the light, and according to that all the rest the reasons for ordering, so that the soul is well as of course through its continuous con- they deserve to be comforted me image his children Indeed, nothing He is more worthy can, as a man founder to him he becomes an imitator, light while proposing a method faculty exe skinner: to demonstrate beautifully to the Angels cus Doótor opulc. When you continue to pretend to God's fervent heart breakable weight of flesh neither while a(i her fatible alternate? bear security
and perfect union with DEO is allowed to light the connection, hence to be sung it is true, don't make shameless light there ipfis canata but it is where language Egyptian nothing but the voice of the mourner John the Baptist the voice of intense joy, while through conti- new groans and tears for my beloved prefence, intuitive enjoyment while all things of this world ar- they are bitter as ever, as long as Christ let them make a profit, next to that cleftis magiftri
But because b#c locutfum lobis? triftity filled the heart of Vejirum, fed triftity Zephyr It will be turned into joy, that is to say Where can I live this life? all ram verse, alternate: the center of bliss when you have gathered Warm up. V qk I{alendtvs understands the call to the old religion from the fiecular version: and it was called Kalenda he cpod lialmdis menfium five first memory of each day the right should be celebrated with such lavish favors, how much more I hear that the ptiacs monafteriis are flourishing, calling that T, because this kind of calling làlutis, which T marks, the pledge which- I give, and it becomes a sign, in which the children of God commenfales Chrifti diftingueren- tur a to the children of the darkness of the world of this But Pafcha understood that through H beta git, in which in the kingdom of heaven the friend of GOD let them eat and drink from the wine of Chrift, Seti. I. and they shall be filled abundance house of God, and drink from the torrent of pleasure tur, viz. the courts of the state And this lunt, where? briefly read pore around mythical letters St. Vacbomius I wanted to tell you, at least the true words I would like to add to this post. The truth when more than with the alphabet
and character Ipedantia's secret accounts, how as in this place, where the amount can be done: We are trying to make a profit, for the time being that they may be dealt with narrowly, lest things from faith And with that nature, you will find something brevity greater the darkness wrap up mouse, she gave him more comfort to Oedipus trust the interpreter of riddles to recover it is alive, where these epi- flowers God's thieves not grace we are confident that they will emerge completely. From the letters, therefore, now to
Coptic let's move the Copts, from the burdened etymology with you are far away in the Prodrome treated it is done, that only briefly instead, he reproves what is lacking. Whether lin- The Greek gua came from the Egyptians rit, or not? Certainly letters from for the first time through Cadmus to the Greeks tranflatas, from Herodotus in Terpficbore It is plain to Timon, whence He was born he we got old of the entire GrxcU iatis con- He wins the letters of Cadmus Grecos accepik le, nor caufa, to whom the matter is so ma- let us deny it, let us deny it let's face each other
who argued twice tries to prove it, Grecar before Cad- mum had the previous letters, which ora- a little rent has been Cadmus High- by argument, that Belleropbon Tiquior Cadmus wrote the letters about the fua He brought the slaughter, both arguments Why did he literally call Cadmxas Cadmus au&ori accepted? are they not related? And fi Cadmus is the author, or the first mus do&or, and an index of them in Grzcia y where- TOWER with more people never re- perti in the old records
what is she where? yaUsf. they were called, to whom all fubfcri- bit Clemens Alexandrinus libr. I. Stroni Hence also Herodotus wrote letters fuifTe called Tboenicias: but he was Sm tem- Cadmus Tbamicem Egyptios St. Hie fmLihera ron ym tis teftatur times viz for free Jofue, Cadmus, together with his brother Vbami- ce Tbebis JEgyptiorum, from where it originates were the prophet in Syrta I was, as verifìmile fît at the time of Otboniel and Tboe- nicia come to Gnecia, and there in the memory of Tbebarwn of Egypt? TTbebas Boeotias condidifTe, reli&a fra- three Vbmiici Pbamicia, from which name got it. yEgyptii xxtem men letters lias, which I gave to a boy in Egypt they said they could not deliver. Cadmus therefore he was the first, who was of Gnecos He was perfectly imbued with the letters of the Egyptians it must be doubted. But he was before Cadmus closed something
raw food the mind of any of these letters, no yet zValamede, or (Belleropton many throw it wrongly, {ed à pri- mo Atbenienfium King Cecrope cast (whence the story lustfully emerges from the letters Greeks existed before Cadmus) verify it is a thousand, fiquidem Cecrops ipfè ALgy Rather, Cadmus is about one fa? us older Moyfe, tefte Eufebius, uvyvy therefore Teta tefte diót was that Greek and Egyptian lin I wonder where he was going, even this one Egypt in Greece
together with aiiis ceremonies tranftuliffe, the author is of whom Tzetzes so he sings. Cecrops The worst of all Attica Cecrops Valtuudo? And the first who is called oìcpvns, eo eJus- that the greatness of the two men in the lon- gum drool jr that of the Greeks, E, gy- ptiac? lingule expert he will Letters therefore from Gracas ab Egypt first of all, it is clear from what has been said, de WARS B. III.
which in Oedipus fufiflìme Which au- Seti I. the Greek language also from Egypt proccfTerit, deserved to be doubted for a moment pofTet, the affirmative in the Prodrome capi- I had killed you Every day ex- zìtirua At last I discovered the intruding experience, CoP
taking the case the Egyptian language from their mothers w-mmiiiam for aV5$w, with no other tate, as much as from idiocy, conjugation, and the inclination of the name. was it allowed to collect to have, nor we must move the words TfLLov redolence, and Greek voice? Paul occurring in the lexicon. so a word of this kind with the Coptics vocabulary first of Alexander the Great, and of the rest from Vto- lemaica ftirpe deutuntium %egum JE- zypto the dominant times, from fre- in the following, that Ipfìs with the Greeks ultrò, marchers to and fro and more years of intervening bat trade contigifTe
in Oedipus let us teach, and the Copts about it from me supported by them, they confirm this. Not therefore my words in the Prodrome In Coptic I would like to understand this fenlù, as aftera, the Greek language to Egypt to have that reason, as Cbaldcea v. g. language to Hebrew, or Italian to Latin for some were thought to be this that what? daughter of thee, none of the snow gods He who is ignorant of languages will be infected: no for fentius Grexca originated from jfcgyptia don't let me drive you immediately, a lot minus Greece Hnga2im, sEgyptiam cor- I think it should be called broken. But the whole friendship both each other from the combination of words, as I said conti- give me he who knows the one with the other he has contributed For PofTunt any language? the same words to the other line what? applied to use, even fì ipfa? as to as they say, the whole world is different from heaven German pentiita many Latin words nas interfered with you. La- tina also Gneca terms willing takes Athanasius Kircher Chapter takes
from whom tur, which you will find discussed elsewhere. Quiin language not Gratis tan- and terms led 8c Latvia, 8c Ara- Hebrakis Samaritajlifque, ex vici- spine as I think, the strength of nations he uses, which all Lexicon through the following paradigms clear Coptic ha borrowed from the Hebrews Voices. lan Gbomer. TuvcojMop
Tti. ee&N Samaritan mutual emphasis.
It was created. tms Nablum. tta. Xa.
Libra The Latins Jequentes. SUHpTUXpiON Vratorium Manager. kXau Cell VCICTpOU The thief Scale Tomus Cbarta A centenarian ovcàpXXoc Cartallus TaVo. SHTDJt. piDW A code of accounts This is about how much you eat most of all in which they met Paul in this work itatuendum clt It remains, therefore, lingual! jEgyptiam except Charaóterc the whole eco lo from Graca diverfam effe This reflects Seti. I. instead of clarifying, how this language at iolo Coptic manler the idea that makes the relationship happen nor the Copts. See Coptic language although most of the season that is the King of Egypt ro declinarle in occaium poft Cambyfis y to use in the universe Egypt iùb- played, so in antiquity, lite- and rare monuments favoring ty- rannid, and liane Ruffe the first defeat Other disasters, which whether the memory had erased it, it was of the Gracchus in Egypt, and the most important library of Alexandria by burning all torches destruction the Coptic language codified when, innumerable examples have perished, and nothing remained afterwards
Some of the performers of the rites men from such a famous shipwreck cta But those who fail gradually to the pigs, and laughed Egypt
so he also gradually failed in this language, so as to scarcely lu- it would be seen as a fairy tale, until the the coming of Christ the Gentiles yEy- pt'u the light of the Gospel you are like tablets, the country I say picking up the pieces as they could run into the whole, lest the first language and so many, and so much of the knowledge known intruding I would go to buy a co- born far away, as referring to the idiom with ecclesiastical codes they flow from the bottom. I will bend Coptic language, not Arabic, or Greek her in the hands of one of them, it was a caufa, partly a jumma towards the country idiom affection partly as this language native ecclesiastes like the keys of the East note that let it be diftigned, nor Chriftiana the heresy of faith, defiled by unbelievers naren TOWER Chapter 1K they would swim, it (in its own language con- futa) to put away the cheap it was What Sy- ros Maronites in the light day characte- It is better known to do what I want to do BABEL III.
fpeéfcantes nomenclature: feitiflìme utiSecì. I. are proposed, so that they were not ex- thoughts, fed from the old ipfis: um autographs excerpts more certain it should be said I will continue whether it is the present day
eit. , as it should be said. Quin&cata- of the priests still the manuscripts, this old one the log of a few, together with dealing with the language of profane literature j catalog of the patriarchs, and more famously They are perfect
I deserved it to doubt j Egypti potiflìmum from Medrafe I'm sorry, I'm sure there's nothing like that He held two things more complicated than this à Peirefcio about years ago ipfùm, so also nothing of greater concern, Miffus explains it sufficiently. The truth is that with inquifiviffe diligence I remember myself, some curiosity about antiquities a sparkling genius wave that tan- I seem to have finished it, as I was curious I am certain that I will bring something to the Poles to be trusted Dwarves of this kind rum in the ancient language of the co- say, the specimens are still in Egypt fúperefte you deal with the Egyptians has noticed, or if large scale fàtfìi- and through it is woven, in which all things are to Theology, Medicine, Physiology cam, Metaphyphic, and other ar- of that
profemon to the inaccefTos of this kind of books the- provide an opportunity to inquire rem, their titles were translated by me into Coptic Ctos would trust in the Coptic Prodrome. Au- of the mouth, as generally in the Orientals it was agreed that the monuments should be made (indeed characteristic of the Coptic profane file names) names not in came attached, fed the titles of the books tan- tùmut about which the falconers treat ri innoteferet, the excerpts which I have quoted see instead Already the Coptic alphabet, We used to convey the common and the mythical. Trimteva literature JEgyptiarum fabrica injlitutiofaBa à Txatofeve Mercurio Trifmegifto Charahler ZoograpbusX Figure of Vidgar's letters. to be said tur7 ideft Good Demon The affinity of the Greeks to them. it is said, idefty Norm III.
it is said, that is Good field. in Chapter IV. XI. XII. XIII Athanasius Kircher Proceedings of the lower ad worse fymbolum ed. it is said, that is "Lord of the world. " is said Proceeding fuperioram to the lower ones. The head of the soul of the world grandmother Monday's feast. Oh great. it is said, that is The village
cr2 B Thita. Sit down I. XIV. Tower of Babel Lib. IH
XIV. it is said, Love xvi. Jut water it is literate it is said, that efly chain I will be literate, and pro- the beginning of the elements tarium fi ve vegetable proceflUs. aecLy Figure taken from this the country, with which the heart of Ofiris pus extracted from the waves. XXI
Sol. tfLuna. Letters Tbotb five Tauti The time of the Hebrews. può
And so the first char&er feu lite ra, from the separation of the feet of Ibid, roftro ejufdem transrverfim inferto, in- wind, kyaftos AcufjLùùv was said, id it is a good wo? z, initials of letters you will understand together: for here the prxter the capitals of said words, as I said, li- you will also erase the shape of its portion
than A pafTim uve pticè y this is what they call a good field expresses and literature of this kind rum, as most of the three, or per- fèx, or papyrus twigs (ìve thyrfìs, into shape first literx alphabet, which fic they presented, adapting composed in the Lolemnities of Coma of the daughters of Teoru? i, and the most important Mercurio iSifzócpa from whose ancestor fi- The gura had been found, and it was carried forward And they called Hieralpha, fed already fin- appetites alphabet hieroglyphic letters let's connect I. Here Athanasius Kircher Chapter that is, a good genius, composed of initials letters A A For if I was produced from the letter A will become A which contains A A in monogrammatic faith, found but here this hieroglyphic letter in all ferèS- Egyptian inscriptions, especially in Obelisk 'Barberino', Latera? ienJi, Flamimo, Mabutaoy Mediceo, as below those places it will be said that we will call the Hieralpha of the poor.
III. IV. This charaóter v&juzt, ideftNorwrf, sends, by which hieroglyphic means nothing else, than the phymmetry of the things of this universe whence He was brought into the hands of Horus, the fenfiable ruler fpeótatur: for as the norm, Civcgnomone, all juftà menfurà proportion are distributed in Ar cbiteBonique's operations, so universal genius in the world an infallible device, it gives a proper proportion to all, menfìiram, weight Charaóter here sX-STi is said and that is, good agery and that part of Egypt, which they call AeÀ, indicates because that region is above all to other Egyptians provinces as well as the most cunning, as well as all human things He is a wild animal of the Neceflaria genus, from Ibides ibid ftabulantis incerTu invenms
because of the honors the wealth of many years flows from the first powers into these more ferocious, fitting it through the pyramid, an element from God They expressed the discovery of the feet of Ibid. I will go through the opening of the roftri xerunt, he gave himself a chance to find the letter Y, in which character the progress of the inferior to the superior re- And they indicated, from the center, presumably, to the circumference For you will go while one part of the roft is embedded in the sand, the other Circumcision I do not leave anything circular in the sand he complains, to be used in the activities of animal sacrifice
diofiflìmi, thus and the intrument of the circle, and the center to the circle to find the occasion of the conference of motion, it is not surprising. Charaóter here "J" is said, that Egyptian he is, and the Lord of the World, the archival of the Greeks O my cron emanated from Ibid as well. I will indeed go from here he twists his neck in such a way that it seems to imitate a circle; that as the Egyptians noted, from Mercury into Ibin to, to be warned of any falsehood, fuperftitio- They persevered with him, and therefore Ippì T "Y name were, which is the same as the Lord of the World: he alludes to this Vlutarcbus libi of Ifide, while the name Om pbis (or rather Ophta) explains.
VLHazc Chapter TOWER OF BABEL L I B. III.
oppofita ed rum to the higher, so this from the lower to the lower indicates the head But it is formed by divorcing the feet of Ibid, from which the Egyptians first biti, as we said in Mecharitca, menfùram in sand pro- greflu found imprefTam, which fúolocopul- We have tried from various authors. But it was found I am very familiar with this among the hieroglyphics, as in the second place it is certain, and this letter reflects the foolu&i'ùL of Gnecorum Copts From the two preceding letters a composite li- VII. the decadent land, live the truths of which the Egyptian proceC The soul of the world will be destroyed, from Ibid Geftis were found alike For you will go with your feet apart jamming, and open the door, and leaning on his neck while it rattles with open mouth, it expresses the shape of a liana. Vi- of which of this numerical hieroglyphic fufiùs difTerui mouse Arithmetic hieroglyphics He will answer but this letter to y Greeks or Latins X Cheap Boris expresses his head here char&er, JEgyptiis it is signified by the letter although some also let them take this letter for the sake of Or Egypt the men of the truth of the truth, when it comes to the head Let the horned ox come nearer to the letter. He notes that the conjunction of the Sun and the Moon, so indeed, that ca- put 'Bo'Vis Solerti, but the horns signify the Moon. Ve- runi, when the whole of this work becomes a diet of these, ad We have left our own places. Hicchara&er tfutt, it is said that is, Fifa, re- fpondet letters Coptitarun (T t$2 Gnecor from capi- te Hawks were found, who with the sharpest vifus (ìt, literally this ifti to God, who gave life to all things in the world to penetrate the receptacles, that is to say, they conspired alone. Sol for by the diffusion of rays it warms, animates, con- fervatjuxtaillud: tiìu&fì ityopctg tfcy X. Clu- Athanasius Kircher cundttas; for it is from the head of the Arctic, which Amun called bant, dedu&us, who becomes a symbol of fecundity, re- ctè he presented the head of the Arctic with his horns in letter twisted tur. From whence I gather this name of the vessel erleex videcite ferrai, what would you say, B letter Am- warning See the truth about the hilce
which in his own We have done a great deal of work. XII. is, Life, di- it is quoted, for it is taught in the Serpent's Hierogramma mouse
The serpent was the symbol of life for the Egyptians: next day there is no rum, from the Serpent's body he twisted this origin ginem &am traxilTe fèd about this see the cited place. that is, the letter Tan- it is said to you, and in hieroglyphics it signifies nothing else but the life of the world, which the Serpent marks in the circle. and the hieroglyphic paflìm of Nujulmodi is written in Belifci, and other Egyptian monuments, as cis oftendcmus XIII XIV. From the preceding character is born the preeminent chara- Cler, whom the Egyptians that is, they call Love, for all the members of the world burst through the life of the universe I'm sorry, connected with love whence the Sphere of love is needed tatur, of which there are many both in Obelifcus Vamphilius, and in On the Prodrome, and in other places of this work, we have done. This chara&er JEgypiiis jmuw is that, Aam is said, because it expresses the flow with water, and so on KV&Lofaytnòp t bìal(& it is
refpondet M Coptic the runes of the Greeks and Latinos ca nothing occurs more often. Here is the character of the Egyptians, that is, Catena dir be cited, because it expresses a chain connected by circles, eft w&LùT&ybtM t òtw (rvfJiSotev, to use Pfellus teaches mZoroafîreeVhilofophÌ4 exofifione, refpondet the Greeks. XVÌ. Tower of Babel Lib. III. Chapter This letter is the same as the facts elementary school proceftus ava è, with the leaf
well Vamps? . widely expofuc we laugh, he was thought futile foni, for them it is immoral here for a long time.
Setl. l. rea, K. v&oteyiKov tu cteTTctyy cvSoTv eir. , ideò the figure of the harpoon was carried away, with which the body of Ophirides a He threw Typbone into the flowing Nile, from If extra. He was the most frequent it is among hieroglyphics, p Coptic, expresses Grtecwzque. Why this little about him let them judge. Ha: two letters: t ihla
vvfAMo'KiL, what they represent, I know from the figures feitur, of course the Sun 8c the Moon, and the same go? and o
Coptitkrt letter? . They are seen as ha: letters in ancient fragment from immortal memory: to the man Nicolaus Verei- few tranfmifTo, which I add here, where you see four you're tired fervent in a circle contorto inclufàs, when charaóteribus e, figure in the middle 0C qua: tametfi in Supplement to the Prodrome, and exposed to Obelisk the Vamp mus, yet in this place she expounds we married Ttf The letters ideft, Tbotb is said on the day of Mercury. T of the Hebrews, Gr#corumopz T exactly repondet,
of which see Obelifcus Tempbilius for a complete account; as therefore it becomes futile to talk about the same thing here. And this font is letters, of which in confining and confining things to the common intercourse of men belonging to the ufùs, where: fimul hieroglyphics inscriptions hot ban From which it is manifest, suit shave these, utpote qua: myfteriosà qua- dam ftrudurà conikbant, hieroglyphi- Whose ufom did he have? and the same names in full here hieroglyphics sick with infcriptions which: to use in Obelifcus Vampbilius fol. a font proven by Bertim, and in the fertile ones interpretations foo place, time we form demons, do the same for this instead we decided to repeat the fopervacaneum. ca. Chapter X.
Athanasius Kircher CHAPTER About the Phoenician language, one of the original languages. 1st century Pboznicia was a region, and it is mine I will kill Mount Libarti Garti, Tripoli, Sidon, Tyre, Berrboea, he comprehended. It was a diet Pboznicia à Phomice, brother of Cadmus, who to seek new colonies, in this ma- rice brought from Egypt
(for they were the nation of Egypt, as in the preceding we taught they landed
Phoenix indeed, the size of the works His genius was perfect, you of all the Arameans, the Bananians who drew his eyes in wonder, so also things having gained dominion He made him the leader of the whole nation; By whose name was the region called Boenicia appeal at lustful strong it was But Cadmus was his brother, re-released I was broken in the dominion of the Pbcenici, novamin Ionia, live Gracia, the colony of Moli- tus, to those characters, and literal, which when he had brought them out of Egypt, the first com- which one? then the Coptic name so they were, or as the Gracians say, But use these in other works Oedipus Obelifcus Pampbilius himself, and in this pig- we have done the work richly, so that dif- to carry away fufìùs, fìipervacaneum cen- I was And so he retorts at this point. a striking difference between the Greeks, Copts, Greeks, Samaritans themselves
for I remember a few melegiffe rim, who abtrullò lite from Hujulmodi the knot of difficulty at they trembled, and came together in such a way the labyrinth of antiquity
not winded bring forth the appropriate; of my parts eff thought finn, spread the difficulty matter, and as far as possible, clarify the matter to give Therefore the difficulties in this it goes, that some Tbamicias, Se Sama- ritanas letters, the same profibus effebibi let them perlíiade and together with the same of the Bananas language literature they give and now from the multiplicity of I am able to confirm this with the ancient rites they think, in which whether the point of difference they touch the difficulty, then it will be seen where before the sayings of the ancient writers rites, to confirm the truth bring them, brought back to the anvil we laugh Josephus, they say, called himself St. Jerome the festivity is especially favorable to the Gracchus that very clever tradition, Cadmus and Pbce- Nicia first brought letters to Gradarti. fe, and literal Gracas majufcula, who bus once upon a time they used both than the Latins
eff Pboenicias, to whom just like that Some grace add they run, so that the tongue can pronounce it naturally tation express to them, and ex- worship That lib. i. Herodotus ancient Greek history while the mouse Pbcenices, he says, who with They arrived at Cadmus, with many others to introduce doctrines into Greece, as well Verily the letters which among the Greeks, as mibi Vi- it is given that they had not been before: indeed the first they existed, to which all Phcenics they are thundering: the progress of the season together with They will change the phono mode. This but it proves the best for the extant Infcriptions fìiperftititus. Why not? I saw dWThebas 'Baotias infinite pollen temple letters of Cadmaus on a tripod you will begin with a large part of the heart like the Ionians. Herodotus relates the same instead of three entries of the same kind. She- dem 'PliniUentcnnalib. VII. chap. j6. Himself Pliny referring to Aristotle The same also
in a few words the book Chapter V The tribe of Ipfa Phcenic infamy in the great literature true TOWER Chapter X tension, fiderum, naValium, (sr the beginnings of war Tacitus Annals book II. It is a rumor that Cadmus was the Phcenic elafe The old man, with the raw Gnxcomm popu- the law of his (literary) art Joseph on the contrary, Appion teftatur, the hiftoricos of the Gracchus, who fì- bimitipfìs literaram where ever They want to claim the most important thing, him to Vbamiabus Cadmus to repeat. This re- brings Eufebiusj and proves Uh, X. cop. of prepares Evangelical The same thing too teftatur Appion Grammaticus, ardent the desire of the Jews
account he delivered Cadmus, do not go through the snow He came to Bceotia, as the same refers from it Euphebius, the same book chap. no. i? He quotes another from the same Appion theftimo- book of St. Irenaeus Chapter I The faith of the Greeks from Cadmus the first bush ten they are accepted
poflea of time now fast forward, now double in- Twenty-five. Palame, the truest of all they give it long adjectives. Clement Alexander Stromat book I. a little before medium: Cadmus of letters at Gra? - cos inventor, was Pboenicius o$gv yi Cpoi- you will live xt- Ktoofyypyttpet. This Epborus teftimonio confirms Diodorus Siculus, at the beginning, lib. while some ancient historical re- brings Cadmus the first letter in Gra- ciam è Tboenicia detuliffe, hence vul- go di&as effe Vboznicias, and even Pelajgicas and that is what the first Velafgi became to them of course Hence Timon the ancient Poet Qqi- vixix L crvfjLctfo xafyov Same Hefy cbius in the voice of Qoivixi&j Suidas in the same division, and in Cadmus Ouintus Shorter book of the Tyrians: This nation li- you will the first
or learned Hifce Morinus is aftipulatur in opufeu- lo Hebrew-Samaritic. If it would fly, in- quit
the same eYulenter demon it would be broken as well if you in the name of letters B E L Li B. III.
qtue as from ipfoSecì. l, I had read in order
who is and one tsr the same This is about the letters of the author to be understood it is, which ontiquito tan- then they were stolen away
not out of mino- with rice, which allows for quick registration indented mode Junt. Whatever happens
all the registrations are murmuring letters eff guiltless: prate rea codices all the same for a thousand years ago also cbaratlenbus efje carried off iriVe- niri too some boc at the time riors The Antiquarians are very fond of this He dies of docile men. in Epit. Seneca? Lippius cap. he pronounces: Language? English? ; Leo Allatius
noticed in Antiquity Etrufcas We saw him give some Rome? in the Vatican library cana) Parish in Regia, and other biblio- tbeci Verùm Jofepbus Scaliger Observed fwnis in the Cbronicon of Euphebius poft note others is progressing. For he writes the alphabet of the Samaritans the same, indeed, as Vbomium; ideò aflìi- sends the ancient letters of the Ionians, the Samaritans the nose is truffe, and this is demonstrated by two with ancient columns on the Appian Way erToflìs, and thence into the Farnefian gardens Deported, in which letter? Ionic ve Are they dry? , in the year the city was founded? From that inference the alphabet which he opposes in a columnar manner the Samaritan alphabet, today's Gracchus no, and in Latin, as in the place quoted in each case he will be able to From the literature rum ocular by comparison collects cis letters è Gratis or- it is true, it is certain. This arllr- Mat Tacitus Annal. II. Form letters Latins qua Veterrimis Gra? corum, five Demaratus Corinthius gave them caretjfiìe Evander Aborigines; both for they were Greeks. Pliny says that
demonstrated by Yh. VII. chap. Old lit- ras gra? cas fuijfe almost the same as now rope Athanasius Kircher Gip. X. they are Latin, Delphic will be drunk la ancient aris, which there is a bodie in the palace dedicated to the gift of the prince Minerva Therefore he had said a little before: Gmtium confenfus silent first of all He confided
letters were used. Nor this one he can be distrusted, with his eyes fint of this of the thing teftes For minors Latino rum letters Thanks small they are fì- thousands Today replied Morinus
scale however, it is necessary to adhere to the wrong it seems that
characters Samaritan thin efTe Vbainicios it is not so great friendship of the Gracchus when Samaritan you
however, there is something that in my opinion talk returns, and much more proved more we would trust that which they confess, before the first time pli excision
which is now called Sama- ritanus For with Tyrus and Su on every side the gifts would be surrounded by Ifraelkis, or and a very good number of their ter- the theater, nor do I go out
snow by the sea the country of the liturgy to leave carry nor enter it
five Israelite Cbanana- which I think is much more probable. This can be trusted Cboerillian I trembled Poets teftimonio, that they report Josephus book I. on the contrary app even
Euphebius book of prapa rat Euangel. who speaks of the Jews knowing
them language to speak vboz- nicia This is very probably confirmed by Seti. I. He can do it from what he writes St. Augustine ftin Epipht. to Rom. before the middle
When asked and we don't know what they are doing, Punicè refpondentes Canaan is easily corrupted, as it is done in such bus falci, one l'itera, what other reference as Chananan TbmiicesikChananaos they needed, and this was so too confùetum, as the Vlmnices ruftici fé ipfòs they would call them no other than Cbananaos. Who then were Gracis Latims Tboc- the Canaanites were nice to us. Whence there St. Auguft For Chananxa, this is, Pu- a single woman from the borders of Tire and Sidon scumbags Teftimony St. Augustine's piano con- It is in the form of what Procopius relates in lib. II. In the Vandalic War, I was two at the time fuperfuiffe columns in the city of Tingita- na, to whom the language was unregistered, and Chara&ere Vbmiiciis. we run away Eie Jefu the robber son of Nave Pboenice therefore they were, region, language by the name of Chananai
Who will doubt Himself? character? Apparently Morinus she- work demfententence effe with Scaliger, fedÈS- is mistaken.
But divide the Vbmiicians with this question you were kind to the Samaritans, how precedence definitely confirm they seem to be a sea, let us assume that so with effective ancient arguments monftratumeft, and that which is common the fame from the last antiquity into this u which day he delivered to us unaltered: Gra- cos fcilicet à Vboenicibus letters fuas ac- took you, from it the necefTariò is finished Hebrew alphabet, feu Vbamicium not fecus and Gracchus from the letters, with nants and vocal chords then Just as the Latins ufiiy the Dalmatians, the Serbs, and other peoples borrowing letters from the Graces, Gra- cam the reason for writing made do: how again Italians
Italians, Germans, and the rest of Europe let the letters be borrowed from the Latins, Latinam wild husband TOWER Chapter X. They embrace the method of writing; so Gricci's letter received from Tboenicibusy Cad- mo Tbcuiice JEgyptiis received, cjuam we say Coptic, not Samaritan five HÒYctis letteris, fîve letters you can see the form
live fcribendi con- the reason, their procuring du- bio fcribing the account of the Tbamics and They imitated the font. And so at will it may be argued that Cadmus, who He brought the Tbomian letters to the Crociani, vo- He gave warm letters to the Greeks Thozmabus vowels letter, with which ctis with confonnants fillaba di- the opinions were composed. below him Based on that argument, Tbo will gather? call nice in addition to the neighbors read the letters everywhere to junxifle, not lblum as Hebnei, with the diótiones were beginning
or they ended or when they were radical, or of names formative?
or pronouns in turn they were curious For whence it is so complete they will learn to write Cjreci, nifi à nicus, to which 8c letters and vowels And had they received their names? As a close example, the opposite But I will explain it to him: Turche, 'Per- fa, the Tartars j from the Arabs letters with fû- they received with perftition: therefore by the same in the manner in which the Arabs will write. three tan then the vowels of the prxter recognize the letters; they have figures, which include no they know the vowel, though I didn't do it for them whereas the Hebrews did not pretend to be poor. Vo- hot iftas letters in the middle sentences seldom place Where is this? because from The rabbis were thus ennobled, to whom the letters were written they received Valifla is therefore confe quentia cùm è Grxco fcribendi modo Thomius is collected. He goes to call You will eat the same thing on both sides, and the same thing the figure of the two chiefly, of whom it will be difficult, as n in the fifth place she is hungry, and there is nothing else buried, where E written on the right in the far left If pa- girl If you don't think about anything at all BEL Li B. III.
from E Greco Se Latin, which you see here, SeEl it will differ. The same is the case with the fourth vowel V Aiti the figure of the Samaritan heat he goes next, his room in the alphabet of Hcbraco, the Samaritan, himself In Syriac it is in Greek j Sed fi poft Epjilon should enter g, which Scaliger calls olmmov (ScTy, and the effeminate will jEolum digamma, leu f, it will be his you will properly name it in the alphabet (}reco which in Hebrew and Samaritan Of the three There is nothing to say about the foreign bus. This one (Pboenic custom of writing Folybius Hiftor seems to confirm it. book for when what forces Hannibal in He left the Hifpaniis in Italian professional ciusrus, and many other minute admonitions while he is deciphering, he objects to it: No one I can't bear it so quickly tuiffe, nifi or ipfè ea feciffet, or fin- it's going to blow He will return the faith from the collegiffe ex jEnea's story by Hannibak at that time carried away when he was in Italy Hence it appears that Tolybius spoke the Punic language I will not destroy it ignore; Phomicum for the Cartbaginenfes were a colony. No but Volybius was the greatest iftiusà Latin, Greek in writing variously state, nor in this place, which comme- he was fit to stay, and not elsewhere, men He does this. Whence the hay is to be gathered, none among the Greeks Lati? iofcpe
Cartbaginenfes, feu Pbosnices in fcriben- di ratione difference fuiffe. If you It will be some kind of jufment, the matter will be filled not so remarkable given this occasion Will Volybius be involved, with Hiftoria? fuse a great part in the affairs of Oman with Cartkagmenfis with the narrative of the geftas it sticks Sanhflaius the comic poet hence the neck some mocking I become a pcenulo, or some feomma in to throw him out to the people will capture the movement. Finally, I was able to collect it St. Au- gufl'mo Eunice's hair is moderately in- understood as many records The right places are proven
firm A T H A N A OfLLtsaa. of the words of Apoftoli, ubire- Laturus is preceded by a Punic proverb. he would relate it in Latin, to what, he inquired, no omnescè noftes two years old with them. What the form of speaking manifestly argues, him punicè intellixife For the Punic language was native to the village and town of the region the snow in which he was born and brought up, and of which finally epipheopus renounced eat But nowhere S. Auvuhinus mentioned he makes a Punic inscription on the right adfiniftram, because of the vowels ab- I was so afraid. Behold, Leotor, these are the reasons which but the authors quoted a little before think that to demonstrate, charaóterem Sa- Maritanus 8c Ionian, live Gracus eun- then; how slow no ra- with the fubfifter polle, fic oftendo. For I say first, to a certain elf unquestionable, the language Samaritan the same as the Hebrew Affyria language, different dialects but the Samaritan charaóterem And AJfyriunì did not fpecie even from the tongue Hebrews, fed only with characters from by writing with a different hand
by forming teres, born to differ. Who all as in the preceding me from the universities of the Rabbis mentally to them here we do not want to delay. I say I was born. If the language of Gracia ab I was of Hebrew and Samaritan origin he found that he had to be baptized; however when in the universal language of Graca, not even a single Samaritan line it is clear that the swiftness of the the Greek language to the Samaritan language for having no affinity. I say, I am afraid, neither will the charaóteres of Sa- married in any language Graca cha- to provide information that is so I'm crying fi charaóteres Grati a Samarita they failed, of course they should Grati to hold that manner of writing; (and now teaches us the complete opposite Klrcheri experience; for the Hebrews, and each son of Setl. l. Samaritan, Cbaldaka, Syriac, leu Ara- maa will write from right to left, Gra- but in a contrary motion, from left to right they wanted to register the train so
Samaritans charaóterem with Ionia Gracchus the same indeed no polfe What they insist on, the Samaritan Pbmiices for, leu Cbananaam language calluilfe, and every desire to Cartbagine Africa fub named Tunica propagated rint, that too gladly
to use at will it will be demonstrated, we grant it to you; Fed and Charaóteres Samaritans, with Gra- tis, Cartilagine utilitas, eofdem effe, I'm sorry I didn't write in this post polfe Nevertheless, as the truth let it be luculentiflìme clear, who fint cha- you would reason those Cadmais, to whom Grati Io- they are the first to be brought from Phoznicia, it is to be demonstrated. All rights reserved before ex ancient monuments added open tiflimè they show, letters à Cadmus you were the first to be brought to Grace fuilfe, which taught us everywhere mouse y adversaries in this conference mouse
fed Cadmaeos hofee charaóte- things which the whole of antiquity conlènlus hence kcloucl ypLfjLùLL says, to him when for the Samaritans stem I emphatically deny what has already been said, and this I stumble a little. In the preceding we have taught mum Pbomice fratres fuiffe Aigypto coming from who founded new colonies turi, in Pbamicia, where? then time the land of Aram, live Aramaa, the third part ree Canaan said from Pbcenice, po- when he was made king by the Arameans, He got the name Tbomitia: Cadmus so- which I left in the broken kingdom together with the letters and the characters of the Egyptians, whom had learned, in Ionia Grada, teach the letters first native com he declared And so you will call the Gracchus He taught, not the Samaritans, but the Greeks. ces P fèd JEgyptios, whom we Copts vo- camo TOWER OF BABEL III.
Chapter X Camus, from the first city of Copts, from the water which he had, fedcoadis authority-, SVfj? . I. Egypt earned the name, as in Prodro- I think that all things can prove true. False We are afraid. What kind of cha- they will make fi quexres, I say, sE- they were prone to abftrufiores
by fymbo please denote the letters whence double they had the alphabet in ufù; one mythical creature from the animal kingdom with movements and agitation of the limbs, I was fed up with energy, which hieroglyphic they called
so- do everything; when from the predi&is clearly pa- teat, charaóteres Samaritans, past which form from right to left tur, è on the opposite side of the Greeks, as He- the alphabet of the Brarians, not to redeem with conionating leaves, at the end vowels Graces indeed charaóteri- bus, with which the Ionic alphabet con- ftat, they use, together with conionants, vowels attributed to him: you went that or- of the second Samaritans, from the ordi- vulgar rum, which in public affairs nor Iiterarum lonkarum, plurimìim dif- but the letters of which were from Hie- he would bear: but he should agree glyphic, leu mythical alphabet li- they didn't care as a reader from both alphabets in the preceding he will be able to see the bus if he wants to. And hu- There were those letters of two kinds, which we things xctfycuoL ypcfj, fia& they said
what to use packed with myths Exifima so also Cadmus them, as Ii- the new and unfoiled form of the earth,
judged worthy that the Greek court true ones they would be communicated. Neither someone let him perfude, as some, who were not well versed in the literature of the priests
from the sonship of the Iiterae, not of the Greeks li terse from the Samaritans
five Vbozni- they should have been robbed of them; for Theo thinks the same letters Ruffe with Sama- ritanis, which he wished to be granted
not a little difficulty, however, there the custom of Scaliger; since the snow is not Jramceusbananceus or Sama He was a native of Egypt, a native of Egypt. but he is much more faithful, and neither Ara- I'm leaning, or the Samaritan language, many tò minùs charaeteres noviffe; whence not so much from Vbamicia, which he ruled b fell down, when Cadmus Cadmei, with they were both said to have been Egyptians. from the Egyptians, fed the Egyptians by the Greeks Verù, as any hitherto di- terasprîmaccepirtefentiunt; s a unt
let them be known to use both the alphabet of all the ancients; Samaritan tradition, so they are also to be exploded. But hife prophecies, whether alphabet- and the Samaritans in the Ionic alphabet let us see. Jofepbws Scaliger both in the former he places in Euphebius, who tries too hard to offend letters Samaritans The Ionians fponder, which, as it proves, can scarcely be said teri: , quaam coaótè, quaam anxiè everything from ancient inscriptions, very soon found from hell in Via Appia, He tries to prove it; fed nothing else fi beats the air: for at first
to use comparing letters with letters, it is clear nothing that exaggerates humility other whether Grzcum Ionium, according to Scaliger in the previous observations, cenfùi, queis alfabe- then Cadmteum, that is, Algyptio-Copturn we present together, as from the comparison of II- of the alphabet rius torch, which to the Ionic alphabet these letters are most agreeable, xquus maritanum, fèd Cadmeus y five Egy- ptiiun, and order, and number, of letters that childishness, Ionio exadè refpon- give
except for a few where? you want alphabetic times Coptic happen run TA- ATHANASIUS Klrcheri
tablet Where the Samaritans were with the Lonic and Coptic five is compared to Egypt. Sit down I. X, tirrjt Tornea
AL X A A! MM: nt isr n
And this is comparatively dear the other Samaritans, whom Scaliger He calls Pbcenkios, with the veteran lonians Greek letters, from which he collects, trying to demonstrate characte- things eofdem effe with Tbceniciis fîve Sa- husband
in which he hallucinates greatly. For who is diligently employed in compa- raton, or the least swift riat of the Samaritans with lon'u TOWER Caj). X. Ionic? If any of the writers from him the infatuation of the expofition examined it is clear and clear will find nothing to his purpose to be shown: never to (meaning, nor as to fì- the kindness of letters, nor finally as to the manner Icribing Samaritans proper, as a little before the day it was Veruni as this to the line of truth fi A B E L Li b. III.
be led, I will add in this place the inferi- SeSt. I. option, with which Scali triumphs wonderfully ger, wherewith to demonize fe iputatjomcos charaóteres, the same as the Samaritans leu Pbomiciis EflTe. Registration of the Games letters, which Herodotus effeminate said Tbamictis
stone india, from the road Appia was transported to the Farnefian gardens was; where it is always baked, and hxc ed: An example the inscription of the Ionic letters by the priests Fats stone begin HATE ISSUE. METAKINESAI EK. TO TRIO nothing HO IT IS IN. Eni TO Trito EN yours HODOI yours Year AI EN TOI HEPOAO I support OvAP. AOION. TOI KINESANTI MAPTVS AAIMON ENHODIA; KAI. TODAY KIONES. AEMETPOC. KAI. KOPEC ANEMIA KAI. Xonion EON KAI. Ideft, no one is allowed to move (transfer) from this trivia, which is adjacent to the third made
although a stone, on the Via Jppia, in the field of Herod
but it will be better, it will be better to him who moved it is for the protection of the demons of the Ways. And the dogs of Ceres ma, ir deorum terrejirium Now let us see whether these letters of the priests of Jonah are Samaritan letters
live Whom they should repose: Behold the liane inicription of the Vbceniciis, leu Samaritans characters exasperate as well, the Ionic inscription letter delivered We place the page so that the reader can understand by the preparation of one with the other, he gathers, how false is it that Scaliger so au- more about identity Ionic literature He brought rum with Vbomkiis. For whom The mind will be filled with joy at the legend as they go, what code do they sing? For at first the method of writing Sama- ritanus ufitatus eli from the right to the finftr with the swimmers, like the Hebrews, the Syrians. shows the alphabet, is composed. the bus was carried away, so no too of both letters to invi- cem collated friendship align! can which, however, in order to prove Scali-. He joined the Ionian nicium, as a kindred character development, than in from various old registers with them, in vain labor, and I settled with Cu after the manner of the Hebrews; against the charaóteres showed his kindness So what? Ionians, from Ixva to the right Second, call the Ionic alphabet He conftats and conlbhants; Sama- ritan lol
(with vowels, coniò- let's talk about this controversy, par- tim in the preceding we have said, and this even in place of a little fufìùs lucidiuique We were about to get drunk. Note Athanasius Kircher Cajj. X. Note that the reader, when cha- ratters leu Ionic letters
that Pbamicia, the little Samaritan please let me know from a few days ago slowly clear fed cadmium literally pro- they are formerly called from those who are in Egypt When the witnesses were received, there was no speech the old ones let it be mentioned So understand that we must know about the Pbamician language, not deleted; for when the language com- munis at the time of Pbamics Arammo, , lin- gua Hebraic has been a dialect, as Sy- We call the Copts, whom Cadmus Phoenix rican, Canaanite, and Samaritan, to the whole country brothers, JEgyptians, found new colonies the land of Canaan, feu ufùalis; sure burn, come from Egypt to Phoenicia they had taken, where the Pbornia colony had been abandoned at Syria, by founding the Arameans He gave the first name of Zion to Thtenici.
But Cadmus advanced to Iona, there the first mythic of the Egyptians the alphabet, which together with fcribing just as he had learned in his youth in Egypt he delivered And these are properly ficCid illa y ifjLfjLOLcp by abufù, from the brother of Cadmus, Pbomicc, they said. But this is better understood they will not be able to gulas letters lonon with the Copts, five Cad- but in the preceding table you have eaten, in- you will come, the egg is not so effete, what
imaginatively in- three times But if someone says, gyptios à Gracis, not Gracos abjEgy- let him receive the letters he contradicts himself three times; already in the previous from everything ancient times mouse, Cadmus JEgyptium teras Ionis first many before Ilium the alphabet of choice it shows that it is not necessary to make a the motions and gestures of the gods pt, and even before the ipfùm Moyfen in ufo Ruffe, expounded in various places in Oedipus we were Another difficulty arises from this to be enoded in the place, which is of the Pbonicians a colony in Africa, cartbagine docile, where the Phoenician language was spoken fé, from Plautus, Pliny, Divo Augujlinus, fìi- conflates from the above-mentioned, and not from the found on the coast of Gaditan Africa, and Cartbagine translated us Xm Pbcmicum feu "Punica. the Pbomian colony was transferred to Africa they could not use any other language from early childhood they had said Just as Cad- only a thousand long characters but not the language, than Pelagia, pro- genies Pbakg in Gracia almost an- nis poft deluge, they had brought in, so
Pbomices Afm not letters, fed language they communicate in many ways; where from Phcenicibm Pomi, Punì, figs lin- gua Penicia and Punica with corrupt words They are called poftea. They are at then some rapids of this tongue, What about Tentenna? my confirmation brought here, to be expounded upon. So but Plautus speaks Introduces Poe- whether the speaker Ny Tbalonim Valon uth fi coratbifima check Cbim facb ebunitb mumis tbyalmytlaba- ri imifebi Lipho canetbytb bymicby adudin Bynuthi Byrnarob Syllo bomaolmin uby myfiftobo Bytblim motbyn noblotby nelecbanti da- mafeon Unfaithful brimtyfelyth cbilis ebon, tem, lipb IJtbynim Ifdibur tb'mno cutbnu Agora- docles TJbe manet iby cbyrs lycoebfitb nafo Pinni id cbil Jubili gubilim lafibh tbim 'Bodoalit berain niu nus tin money end From the anole of Whose interpretation other and a curious reader of inscriptions which he will find amplified I say therefore, the Pbomian colony in in Atlas polygloffo, fyntagmate de Lin- section Tower of Babel Li b. III
Cut off La? L S E C T
He also wants to talk about the original languages, which they call mothers You still fuferft the Babylonian confusion flint in ufu P R i F A T Onjlitutum eH us in this in the third book only about the first To act with ingenious tongues, which they call doctrinal, and to see dear although in origin, antiquity, propagation and corruption, by a certain fcitu neceffarias annotatones as a prodrome of certain things in the Atlantic I will make you to prelude the expounding: And therefore the reader I would really like y the three most popular types of languages from such a confu- sone
This corruption, of course, in a certain divine way que&- ea de caufa also in facrofantx cross trophy S-doiv6p&- Chriftus the world's lord redeemer and they commended the Hebrews and the vernacular Scriptures Syriac, Greek, Latin, together with the earundemjilias, that is to say universe would be revealed to the world, and facrofanttte mijfe facrificium everywhere like them The privilege of the jingular would be read by the bonorati. They call it doctrinal oh idiomatic difltnttionem y eòquodtum in facris i confcri- they are stolen by the doctors everywhere. Although it is true the language of the Hebrews in the catholic church becomes a ufus in the facris; to the poor the abomination of the said nations of the years of the indolence of the husband to be permitted Ethiopian biffins, according to the rites of the most felicitous faith, I was in this and they are in every way. Sedjam adparticular dittamm languages ex- to be put, let us turn the pen. CHAPTER The Hebrew language is the first of all languages. the original Hebrew language, from the first and foremost names, from DEO in à DEO Opt. Max. protopla j facrafiia Geneva expofitis, fourth lucu- and therefore the world j lentiflìmè is clear; and therefore too much contemporaneous, nor divine speech ex- bold, not to say reckless decorated, I said to use the original ef-, learned interpreters of all S. S. and the general intention is vel blessed is he who does the opposite. The truth as described in the previous chapter we will deliver the fuse of tongues to him damage ATHANASIUS Klrcheri Chapter let's relegate the attacker. But what Goro j cited everywhere for the division of the languages of Seti. II. Goropius pius Becanus 'Bekicam the first line
gathered together a multitude they go next to the beard? Geneva cap. I. erTatum; Bdi m of all languages say fuiife, this that ìkT not so spring fe It's nice jocofeaje- some huge luiu aiTeruhTe, he will be sent; with the same greater right of the Germanic idiom, of which the Belgian fi- some will go it may be said, when hardly any monophyletic appellative word in German meets, which? not to some monoyllaba Hebrew can be reduced, that we experience in other languages For it was then the land of one's lips, and that of the fermons Sc. So it lasted the language of the land from the origin of the world, however to the division of languages, in the years I wish, however, from that she as well in
various and difTerent idioms it was the greatest confusion, in- teaches So the first language of all will go J tegrà, however, in the house of Heber everywhere Hebrew; where? the language is called Landa
for here GOD is the first maker of the world Abraham, Moyfen, James, in iynago ga great rabbis everywhere to Christ having appropriated the Adam and Eve of all, still reaching out to us beyond addressed by these names, to whom the same Protoplaitus Eve, questioning GOD you are about to repound the stone. This is the first language, in which the first at last he arrived at myiteriis but of which see
please, Hebrew rum Cabala, than in the second volume of the OedU the Egyptians whom I was defcribed at that time; patriarchs from Adam to Noah, con- about which, as I said above, there is no doubt tinua jucceflinone ufi iìint, to use from the name them, Adam-, Eve, Gain, Seth, Enos, Cai- nan, Melalael, Jared, Enoch, Mathufalem, Lamech j Noah, where? all purely Hebrew It is clear that the names go together. Hàcpoitdilu- eife must be snowed for him, who from landscape a certain language carried away at that time viguiife
fibi teeth, not to say Itolidiùs periuaiè- rite But for what reason, for what reason the way of Noah, his three sons, Shem, Cbam, fa- In this canon it is declined in other idioms, pheth, in it before and after the flood Let's see. CHAPTER The Chaldaic language, one of the exprimogenic languages. Abylonia part of to the Tigris the confluence of the Euphrates, as it was written in a worse book, born He has a race on earth, the first the flood of men will drink, and they will come was a colony of the whole Imman race, there then gathered together, the lips of one, eju and the language? , namely from all cMd? ca nngu s firstborn; where? yet he can drink pin. confuìonem from the fimplici Hebrxa, "Lofdi" with time into a fivefold dial- while Chalda'ìcam, Syriacam, S'amar ita- Nani, Arabic, Ethiopic degenerate ravage And in Nembrod indeed the ibboles in (Babylonia
Se AJJyriam difTuia, pri- Did the language of Hebne speak? corruption nem, to use the ivy of Nino Se Ajfur oiten- we give, and the names of Kings and Afly riorum, whose ièdes in NtniVe} then Kings Cbaldrtorum, whose the Jews in Babylonia they are now demonizing
Cer- and so he went, Chalda'ìcam five Baby- the Lonic language together with the AJJyrians monarchy
to which end there is none the government will be able to development at length and widely yes orchards in fact born ra is compared, as it is, to use itself as ivy taught Tower of Babel Lib. III.
cab II. we taught, what kind of smoke is im- I perished world the earth maintenance
with the laws also let him give the language to the peoples who have been exposed to him
or high y I did not continue in all the provinces, which the prince impe- rat, more idiomatic or vernacular He bids the mouth to be poured, and the fenfim ta- my mind went to him, that I might take root latilTimè dirTudcrit
to use from Alexander a6tis, omanorumoQ Cae- lighthouse hiftoria luculentiflìmè it is clear Even though but today so many books abundance does not exist in Chaldea, when ta in Hellenism and Latin Fermon, but it is believable
the first? monar what? so widely patient idiom, not mi- nori, than the other two, iplendoris, ele- gloves, of names and words the wealth of the elephant; fed that It is to be deplored altogether, an injury season, the veteran's greatest mo- ancient part of the gods? lin I'm sure, thefauros, fummo Republic? literary? almost a loss. For the heavens would doubt that the Medes, themselves Verfa, who held the key of the empire, as from JJJyriis, as mentioned in the preceding book it was, they had taken possession by force and arms, they also kept their books have they scavenged from the public archives? sure te Alexandrum Affyrwrum, Medo Ver- Farumca's literary monuments, to bi- the library of Alexandria destroyed by fire, to be increased fiis-
Francifcus Vicum Mirandulam What is the difference between teaching and learning? Ariftote refers to the truth of the book. Adds Ariftotelem Alexander the Magnificent
he received them, such as the wage interpolated in own ufùs to convert
because or ipfè Ckarcbm Ariftotelica diciplinaeSy&IL not an ignoble student, in the book of fo- the blasphemes that with clear words; for there Ariftoteles would differ with Hyperochus of Judah who from higher A fi a? places to defending the maritime states of Pbilofopbi He came to Ariftotel with love, ipfernetfa- Shame does not happen to you, more often than not cepiffe, quam he received from faith
so Cle- arch Nor even if Plato the great fe- cit the monuments of the Chaldeans in ino AL food
and highly recommends it Magyar Zoroaflns, than nothing else faith delivers the performance of divine worship in which the Kings of the Persians were educated to the Republic? mundane? model let the Republic be properly administered they would differ from each other; side by side loggia? he does: true when this? c then fu- before, then in II. I take oedipus fifius de- we have written, let us abduct the reader where and of Sanchatboniate, and Berojo, first you can Cbalddeorum to the priests
Juftino, Ammonius are delivered So anything today from the language of Cbalda'ìcai-e&at, that whole par- draw from the prophecy of Daniel extra&um was, in part, from the Babylonian Tbargumim Jerusalem, the higher of which were uncles, Ben Ujel
who paraphrastic exfoliation not to translate the Bible into the Chaldean language they cried The Baldaic language therefore, chaidar I will give I want Hebrew we laughed mediately poft confuìonem ex Hebrxa tfi He-
as already more easily emphasize we see The third Hebrews son am conilituiraus Cbananeam, five Sa- husband, than others Tbamiciam di- count ca- Chapter III.
Athanasius Kircher CHAPTER III. the Samaritan language of Athens. sesi. u different such among Hcbrsos ritans Century He- bras tripkx Survive become an offer yesterday I will lie Amaria Ptokmao tract fudaa, in it a city of the same name, civilized bus surrounded by riots, 2bHero- After retrieving it, Sebajie was finally given a diet. Of the Samantans (Indian, morals, in- genius, S. Epipbanius in Panarius fìc {cri- bit: the Samaritans from the Jews they were feparat, not the temple, nonjacrijì or with they had cones mounted; only five UbrosìsAoyCisle- they carried and Esther Jacrafcript- they rejected the rat volumes, the refurbishing of the dead together with the Spiritfanfl they denied the retreat. Now there was a nation of Judges in three fe&as divtfa; the first litter of Effeni say they are banned; fertile Sebuad who with ErTenis they agreed in everything, except that the times would change the feftities of the foknnium the tapeworm of Gortheni, called pediffequi they were defeated by the Sebufaeans in the summer do not spoil them; from which the pojìea arose it is quartafeSla, in which the supporters of Dofìthea say they are separated from the rest prorjus diffentien you: for the resurrection of the dead they were they were aloof from the animate. Saturday they were boiling the bath until now
as in what place and place they were found they would remain motionless until told he will cut off the weight; he says to use Origen l. X v But the Samaritans with With an incredible hatred of the Jews, three times that place from St. John in the Gospel about a woman Samaritan with Cbrifto speaking, it is alleged, all He- the books of the rabbis and rabbis there Distrust had its origin in that the temple, from the on the mountain te Garitm in the defpeótum of the temple of Hiero- built by Folymites, JudaizbAle- Alexander the Great of Macedonia
obtained fa- they will be destroyed by worship, or from that head, that the profane's wisdom, near Gentile customs, Friday They worshiped in two forms. See what hifee more in the first volume of Oedipus, of the Gods We crossed Samantana. And to what letters they would write, or Language they would express their language, Divus Hiero- ulnJll- nymus in the preface adlibros Reeum maritan0"
Bound and two letters y he said among the Hebrews, among the Syrians which language is woven, like the Hebrew language It is a large part of the border
pfì twenty-two madmen have eo- I almost say that, ièd divers characte- with rice; But the Samaritans had the Pentateuch Moyfis registers as many letters, figu- only rice and tips certainly it is Ephraim can be taken Jerusalem initiation fiib Zerubbabel, find other letters, which bus now we use when to and fro the same time of Samantha's Hebrew and the charades remained. Ve- For the rum of hife, see the fufìùs treatise in IL Tomo polyglofi, in prsece- teeth, where the Samaritan language We did more. I said to myself, the Samaritan language Etc
repeated or the same with Lebanon, propagated by the Samaritans from Canaan, whence the name of the region of Canaan has, divide into eleven sons, among whom he called Samaraus, Samaria Samarsus son, ftatim poft confufìonem eam occupy a part with eleven daughters, which I have been by name in almost innumerable places later Valaftina, five terra fanóta dida was; and there were after the division I am an inhabitant of this part of the world Fflfì(lat0, And it is not surprising that Abraham p. poft r" tlrbiu division of nations in years, from Cbaldaa Canaan, into the ground Canaan the prophet it is said Just like that therefore those eleven of the sons of Canaan, have Tower of Babel Lib. III.
Caj. III. he chose to live in the city built bus, the names of each if you he imposed: Sidon the first city of Sidon He named his son Cbanaan after he was built Stdonm peoples; Hetbai the city of He- bronze Jebufai, Jebus, qua: lust Je- It was a red diet; Amorrbai City He gave birth to Lebanon and many others in the land of Canaan; He went to Mount Herman in Mefpa; Arakai, the city of Arcas, I longed for Tripoli called at the foot of the mountain Lu barn, &fic of decay; SamarausvevoSeEl. il. He gave the name Samaria to the tribe 'Benja- min, to whom the language, which of the Samaritans we say cam, the name aflumpfit; how- but the force was one and the same language nanaa Cbaldaka yet like in the middle of the earth? Canaan (so, special in later times he gave the name lin- gu: occafione difiidii rose among the Fudaeans and the Samaritans, of whom a little before CHAPTER IV. language Syriac So great is the C? ograpboru? n of Syria, and the language of each concertano, as to whom you write barely you will find There are those who visit Syria with Affy- ria, Babylonia, and the universal land of Cbanaan confuse There are those who with Pbomicia pious the same indeed they think not de- there were those who expelled Syria into Afia minor they tend to, indeed, their intent to report a trivial matter to him, with nothing else how in- genies with incredible mists of error or Thunder
leaving therefore of others in the imagination, let us ftrictè Syria with this paolo together with Syriac language proper we will write Syria proper diet
where: in fa- cris letters Ola Aram, from the son of Aram Sem, first of his pofTerTore, to which Aramaic language was the diet you want she from Cbaldaka
hardly in may differ from another; from the invasion of the Gracchus, or of Alexander the Great
some corruption shot was, to use from the names Gratis, which: in they bring back the Syriac language, fat fìi- He- and it is clear: txt in the same way game it is with Aramaa
Cbaldaka, Cba- nanaa, Vbomicia, to be replaced.
from whom, however, jUom0io form we gather easily, the Syrians from brais characters ongine lumplil- pants, faith It is called Aramaa, which in fàcrisSf
In literature, Syria is said to be the father of Aram. from Aram the son of Shem, as I said, who was the first his pofTefTor it was a fic diet. diff therefore the language Syriaca à Cbaldaka, Sa- husband
live Cbananaa, then dial- that's all, then letters, not faeces and lin- gua Tufca in Italy, à Romana, Nea- politana
which: tametfi as to dialect direct Italians, however, all understand faith, and they carry on commerce, and share your business, however together it becomes purer among them, which court: they use
trust the Hebrews among the first: - you mortals But it was the language Sy- stream vernacular Christ the Savior ftri to use from various
St. Evangelii's name it is clear to them
ca- Chapter V. Job Arabia born
Language Arabic r0n minor Geographers de Arabia fit it is controversial so that, therefore, I am lazy
useless hard work the problem of names, to whom to call it they praise, confusion we share slowness? inflating do it threefold mouse Arabia
the first border it is the fruitfulness of Mount Sinai adjoins: thrice tia, the shore of the Erythbrae sea, which the Hebrews
Already fupb, from the reeds, which bus fqualet, plenty, they say. It's Turkish c. bacbar corfun, sea close they call him that which is near the straits of Aden where it can be seen In facris lit called the Amalekites, from the first Ama- lawful to the inhabitants; most people the interpreters of the rum letters also They call it Ifmaeltic
that which is his He was the first to make a decision Iphmael
of language Arabic into this and that day, among the Eastern scribes gua Ifmaelitica, and it is called Hagarena. But for the first few days, already at lin- let us proceed to ennode its guage. Arabic language to use the daughter of a virgin Hebrews
so also the tongue Cbaldaìca was raised, as it were Fcitè teaches D. Hieronymus in the preface tion to lib. Job Habitaffe, says Job in Hus in the borders of Idumxa, south of Arabia He was born, and he was before him the name Johab
he took to wife Arabifta, by whom he bore him film, whom Ennon called; but it was
lius of Vero's mother Bofìa, thus becomes the fifth from Abraham But what do you do who reign They will come to Edom, in which Ipfe reigned. But in this translation there is no reference to the Ancients made an interpreter, fed from the Hebrew with fermone, sometimes Syro, now Verba, nuncfenfus, nuncfr mul both matters. Yes, Mr. Hieron. deòtamen poftexecrandi MabiwiedÌ4y the impoftor of the wicked given the law in I have written in the Koran
It was so loud no language even today, nor ever once in many parts of the world
that life he found a greater one: she broke into Africa the univerf of the dog, the protean" Nubian, Bafinam fîve AEtbiopia; she has an I will be all from our shores in the future spread the borders of the East to each side; she entered Arcbipelagum, and or Ipfàs the Moluccans
among which Celebrities inlùla pre- the great king of the Mabumedans command In Europe he holds Gracia, Ma- cedonia, Tbracia, Dacia, pattern Hungary? SerViam lBofnam y omnef. that today from the Adriatic coast, and to Vontum Euxine, the intervening region nes Thanks to this leaves from Europe, through Tartary, the Afta on both sides. that, and the regions of India at the end of every road can take you to Cbina. For when you rule all the East, Arabic &Emperors Verfia, Syria, ArabiaJÌZJZ parteque EuroLafao fìibiecif enten'
-ri cctdent they went to the empire, sion, viz. they have been, the laws of which I do not know the Koran, which Alpburcan They call it Terfa, he would contain it; everyone interpreters, the pure Arabic language, elegant, with which it was written by im- the greedy Mabumede
even river beyond the vernacular, cal- ere it becomes neceffe, so that hence fcpe tusfim, why GOD CHOOSES MAX. do cirina so impious, profùs aAo- yov in so much growth allowed Who knows the truth from the judgments of God, about many other things, which: THE TOWER OF BABELL B. IIL
Chapter V where? hiftoria? teach us rare cefTabit So the Arabic language He flourished like a lemper, ph? um, and innumerable others, which elsewhere we quoted; and although the Arabic language The Arabs had eminent writers. it becomes Hebrew as noun inflections dung in all kinds of genealogy whether, verb conjugations, no-; whose monuments fi in this place has a small etymology, neighborhood I would reccnière, that elTet, the book li- join bro you will write For who kills the most famous aUkr- ptores, Abm China medical principal tmi pem, Abenràsj commonly AVerroem Arifto- telic works iùbtiliffìmum in- terpretem, Abenragel, Aben Maar, Al- yet other names as many, which? They stone the Baldaic Sc-Syrian, and come the abundance of words and names cunda ed: , as a language? Grace will not yield rive elegance five fpects of abundance. And what was the language of the Phoenicians the ivy had already been cut down. CHAPTER The Ethiopian language. Cap. Vl.
A tbiopia properly that region of Afr'u is intimate, of the whole of Africa yttVio-
'meditullium, which Abaf- P This is what the geographers call it, because of his dominion Great Negufcb, five Emperors Abyf- fine; and ends with the mountains of Lu- from the south
treacherous from the North Meroe from the east of the Erythrean Sea; from less
the right spring lives in the Bedouin mountain, which which makes J
by the river fat wide in Bed a lake, which some people mistake for Zaire they say, he vomited He divided himself into various par- you gods, the greatest rivers of genealogy rat, of whom the Nile was the first, who in- to the nations of the world, at last the great increase of other rivers riches, through Catadupa into JEgypt pre? - is captured
the other is Black, who I am part of Western Ai tbiopia irrigating, finally into the subterranean mine tus devolved, then after three days iti- Neris fpatium washed, and priest? li- to be born returned to the western ocean I rolled my teeth. The third river Is it Zaire, who is in the south? west africa two countries even in Angola, he will be drawn into the ocean. De by which see the paper here attached. the heart of this mountain is Amara mine, in which the Emperor and the court were resides
who is not religious fèmper Chriftianus ititerit, à peftife- ra yet corrupted by Dwfcori doCtnnì persevered in his obstinacy, and for Im- with the genius of the executors, already Ecclefia? Ca- bag? Romans? united, just to vo- He rejected the ram. But here are a few things of JEtbiopia let them suffocate; who rains ra noffe wants, from hifee conlùlat mum I Octipus of the Egyptians, where from At the origin of the Nile we have done the fuse, and how in ip fius Emperor Zelacbrifius pra? fèn- ria in the year yói y, together with the other bus, the true source of the Nile, He was a firebrand. To the antiquity of JEtbiopia Ancient, as regards the colonists, I mean
Cbami the son of Cbus the first of this region nis pofTerTorem fuiffe, and that or from u, it is clear from the tears of the letter, where the land of Cbus Paul is called Ethiopia, and the land of Cu- fiim, ten2LsEtbiopu? n is said; for that in Noah's ark, the fufius oftendimusid in this I am degenerate in the volume of the Cbami He wants offspring the division of nations the whole of Africa
(by the command of the fibi place ATHANASIUS Klrcheri Cab. Vl. fatyeàffè clarefed a few demonftra- colonists JE- thiopia (Ju'mam? we will be; so as Mifraim, of Egypt; Cbus yEtbiopia inland; $but ve- all that Africa, from JE- I went to the mouth of the Mediterranean Sea raneo occupied the adjacent one is confirmed by the hiftoria jEtbiopum Abyfsi- of ours, which: he reports, I presided over the rulers of the kingdom ufcjue to the falutis noftra: the rise, whose Seti IL the names and years of the reign of whoever wants conflates Marinus %omanus in deferment tone JEtbiopia. Cazterêm in front of all bus
who in Italy five Abyffins they deciphered history, with ears with merit he prefers the palm to the fâpient we are Vatriarcba JLtbiopia è Society Hiftoria noftra, Alpbonfus Kunnes
who work the best in the city I am so dignified, and the hidden eradi- èsw. Jefa Caxumo conftituiiTe, to bear I have gathered together, univerfam Etbio- chronology uncertainty
pious hiftoriam Luftanic language com-P yes- I will trust the historical relationship advantages j plexus, any ctWoVlws in Abaf- the spirit of the heavens, which he saw come, and in the ancient archives time in monftruofrs names te- run The assurance that I have We are from the archive of Abyffins, hxc it is: that Makeda, or as they will Nicaula Queen sEtbiopia, than Queen the same book He calls the King of Sheba to
Saba then Solomon was to be tempted with a great the company arrived at Hierophlyme
who from a long time with the King dine He bore his son, which Melici? called: others named DaVid far away: this is the first for the betterment of politicians blowing the form of years
to whom he lived, fpacio, brought back; I want to read this they are yours other Kings, each to Cbri reads the rum monuments, feitè fané con- it is written Now, therefore, in advance, tion language: Ethiopian exponent Let's move on: about which quid ipfè- met in the same code of the Abyjfins evolution candidly le- I will propose to the ttor. So I say AEtbio- sharp tongue, all from Cbaldaica, or The Hebrew language, or the Syriac language, nor the caL, because of the inhabitants of the Arab Erythbrai sea the border, composed in effect: so so that he who knows languages well I did not come with great effort gua: to acquire knowledge: alpha the future They are referred to the prefects of the kingdom, beto just the whole
as they go judith tbiopia at that time Queen Judi- j ccelo, à charaóteribus Hebrais, Goal- Ethiopia with that name, and the same effect, which differs between the Uaicians, the Syriacs and the Arabs: by the eunuch of the Queen of Candace: three inflection of nouns QueenJE of Ethiopia how Candace teachers
à fan&o Vbilippus disciple CbriHt way, to use tfrAtlorumVll baptized turn to him willingly, and not with ardent fire different he uses that the conjugations are almost the same, as con- Atlante Volygloff will be called in your place. Jrf
The Syriac language in JEtbiopia in the first nei- Ara zeal and glory the pious division of the nations has come, gem Cbrifti of the Savior
It is magnificently knotted. It is certain, therefore, tiffimà ecclefià in his honor S. Ma- Cbami's offspring, another poft confu- things Zion structure
spread: a fine tongue, mostly from He- to whom I desire S. Mattbaus apoftolus fuc- j braa Cbaldàìca different, in JE- ceding the universal evangelical kingdom of Egypt, and taking over the rest of Africa foreshadowing, fánguinis outpouring; faith, when the Hebrews were born in the house of Heber Cbnfto he wandered, who when euan- j will continue. The knot to be loosened Your Hebrew language is confcripfe laughs JEtbiopes wanted it with great fervor they conferred in honor and veneration, to be thrown most of the offspring Salad Japbetb you want times Chamaea: you were of mixed descent, pro- TOWER G. VI. 5tions of mortals are willing to bear the burden, who taught the Hebrew and Baldaic language cti, after having obtained possessions in sEtbiopia let the language be the same as the colony so they propagated; to use in Oedipus we found, the people of Cbamai had ideft, the Egyptian language which they said was Pbaraonic, to all other languages of the town rent, since Jofepb Cbaldaìca language brought into Egypt by his brother bus said the fa- it was writing, a language which he did not understand B A B E L Li B. III. 2or He read AudiVit; although lustful {ucceiTuv5W7. IL seasons others others Hebrew Cbal- daìca language: the experts in that language and spread the language. Of languages but outside Atbwpia, Abafiina, barba- We will talk to foreigners with laughter. At- that these are the things that were brought about We thought that the language should be spoken. Who in the past riaLSs Ethiopia relations fufiùs fide-, he will come bile Patriarch Alpbonfum Nwi ne, P. Alvarej, T. Godignum} Marinum (Fiomanus, Tenethum, innumerable other oSj who fcripferunt about things. CHAPTER VII. the Perfic language, the Islamic religion. C. VII. Perfia fainting Perfia à voce? , that is horse by the quality of the horses which they produced citi, Tic difta, olim JL lam, à primo his pofTefTore A. lam son Sem, ne- you can Noah, he got the name; where "Through both the tears and the profane Icri- vtonbus lamifarum nomine clarue- run Do it so once upon a time
liib early years want division nations the colonists who divided almost the whole of Asia they took possession of the rights of the kingdoms, to use we have taught in the previous ones
At the present time, however, most in le reigns contains, great Sopbi Im- to the executioner of the Perfarum (object; of whom the former is Verfia, and extends to the sea
Cappius to Perjicumu&pe Sinum, whose The metropolis is once Perfopofo, or, as others prefer, Cyropolis, from the son of Cyrus of the King, the tamer of the Aphyrians so, and magnificent? the remnants of that widely woven, to use Itineraries through Per- They report that she was transfigured; this is done which was formerly called Ecbatena, of the kingdom of Media the head, old monuments the most famous mind; the city of Perfa the capital of the Kingdom of Parthia is Efpabanum, give it to the King of Perfarum, and ex- tends to of the kingdom of Mogor rium, and contains the kingdom of Candabar, India borders on the eastern side, on the west by the fall of Greater Armenia
moreover Iberia, once Colcbid, than today They call it Georgia, it holds the country. Se- This kingdom is left to Gibilon Mari Cappius; desire ea in two kingdoms, Margianamy And divide the area. There are also other re- gna to this great Sopbi {ùjecta, as reftan, Turcbifan inlula Ormus, we a store of linen, and not even of precious things confetta with abundance of merchandise; you want from Cjro, Vario, and Alexander the Great the pores, the desire of the great vicilìitudes perpeffa, domineering neighbors tension, and his strength, above all, The Turks' monarchical violence then he lost it, and went to Ifina'el Sopbi
the son of Xeque Aidary, who was a young man, 8cjtaurat0T magnanimous, born exArdoVilla citizen-pgfg tate of the kingdom of Gibilon, seeing the whole province I will suppress the tyranny of the Turks no stone was left unturned to get her in freedom, abjeóìo Turca- with the yoke of rum, he would recover zealots country at the bottom, so that had thought to be done he finished washed away iftius of the kingdom nut, who had used fox clever Athanasius Kircher VII. Cha Ab- ugly Sophie zRex Per be it? attack am- it blows Language Finish I have to smell it has been nut; then came the first family Re- gum Pofa, who Here yielding to fate, he had a son son of Cba Abbas, who within a short time. pus to the top of Perdei's empire cul- men burned, having received all these re- fire
before the King of Partboru violent invasion of the neighboring kings they had been taken away; and faith in him incredible city and people He fixed Efpaban's chin; and the same happiness tate, still living in his father's power tem reda&à metropolis Perfia nor to the kingdom of Loriflan, rum trophxa from the Sea Cappius to every Si- whether he extends Terc; nor hife con- held in the Middle Kingdom moving the army, Taurus, once Ec- Lutenus, I was right then moving in the north the kingdom of Colcbidus leu Iberia Armenia to the greater Junofram, Eaby- hniam, Mesopotamia
also the tree of Candabur, which is great under the rule of the monarchy of Mogor tur, conquered; finally surrender not 'BaJJbra Arabia a happy city to Eu- pbratis finum ferficum fietae, ipfe mor- I am torn by your betrayal, my life is broken, I am relinquished of the government fucceflore one from grandchildren involved, the body his Commune not even the Kings of all Perfia Sopbo- gravestone, he was blown away; city is, in which for the merits of the sister Sophie I, as I said, the founder of the empire of Terfici, Kings Sopborum dead bodies into this every day, with great fury they do not praise So here we are at length it is even ca condition to be explained progrc- let's talk At this point, the traitor con- (can be omitted; or from primsevis poft di- life in the times of the Gentiles, and so forth to Alexander the Great; Se liib hife Sefl. II. To the Kings of Afyriorum CbaldaorumfbaU daica language five which is the same Viguiffe of Affyrior, velipfà facraferi- The prophecy is denied in Daniel's prophecies, where almost nothing nifi de Cbaldaìca language pro- is carried Therefore, no one should doubt Change of the Baldaic language of the ufii, who then tem- Sex pore flourished throughout all the kingdoms of the Chaldaeans Kings, such as Nabucbodonofor, 'Baltba-porum re- to his son, and desired Darius Affuerus 'voutlom
carterifque fiibjeda: it happened, however, that Alexander the Great I killed Darius in the defense, all im- his death was fubjeda, into a fua power he would reduce it, in which case, mixed graces the Chaldaeans, and other divers gen- of that nations, Chaldea corrupted by He was born little by little into various to divide the languages of different peoples He turned away: made want to kill Alexander then %omum poft hofee Turka, lin- they have changed the guas into so many kinds, how many gna, nations provinces He was not in command; today's monarch The chicus of Perfarum teaches clearly, indeed, the ancient language of the Cbuldaeans Greek language, Latin, Arabic, Tunica artarica was variously corrupted jhodier- for the language of the Verfari from the Turturis re- to the invaders of Verfia, the turtle it is mixed with Arabic names, because The Qur'an, which uses a purely Arabic language It was recorded at Mabumede, so that that no one has for a literate man better in the kingdom of the perfidious, who do not know her be clever, so as to desire from his inftitution the bus will be open
in the other kingdoms Tartary, Candubur, Loriftun, Gorgijian, Armenian} Corafun, Carmunia, Sumurcan-, bmnes so different flint
one nation cannot understand another it happened And this about the Terfica language let them be done ca- C. V1II. Tower of Babel III. CHAPTER Cheap T)e Egyptian language, feu Coptic than old Pharaonic we call
Gypttts is the region of Africa of all he ate the old flame, and in tears Ifceris not lolum, lèd apud profane liberators in no time
was the most famous, whose fatness, and conlHtution to be used by all known eli, so also a further description of it here to be omitted I went up
especially when she in Oedipus We are crippled. Today in Egypt
the natural language is pure Arabic, except ptà, which monks, whom the Copts vo- they use cant j in tears; and from this, to the power of all, as I said, the regions of the anti- Fraim, from which Egypt took its name it was the first time. For the letters when the name Jgypti piml? m tion
that lèmper in the name of p HfxMgy- they name the land of Mifraim, as T'wwhie drabesy Cbaldtei, the Syrians are born, polì: di- ejtu m favorite Pentium first introduce cm Mifraim whose name We call Pbaraomca, because the first kings of JE-gypti Tbaraon the first? to be called by the name of dignity let them play; and eat Vbaraon the same thing director of affairs, to use this time Roman Emperors you will do
at the beginning of his Roman empire the founder They are called Julio Tifare Cxlares, 8e Kings of Verfidis from IJmaele, to the first infiltrator, Sopbi Ettametlìin Trodromo Coptic, and in the entire Tome, that Onomafticwn Coptic Arabic hatu whether it was Egyptian or Pharaonic we have written the restored language, right language: origin, antiquity, heart by breaking fufìllìmè we did some, however, are omitted in the same place to be placed Language I'm sure eat:
from the names you all know this language as one of the first in ancient tongues, to the sons of OWz, alÌM Mifraim himself the division of nations transported into Egypt, propagate then
Cbaldaì- ca? ?ijSyriaca? ?i, Arabicamj Se JLtbiopicam the language of Hebrtfce has daughters, borrowed yet it seems that the denomination lit- the rare alphabet of his language? Hebrew and other language boundaries fat, as from alpha- it is clear by putting it in the place below li- be afraid of them, and the whole character lo difTerentibus when it was said al- the Coptic font has letters, all the rest? , except the Hebrews earlier, lìiccefTu time attached are given, or instead of vowels, veUEgji' ptiacrt by forming the pronunciation ritual cause But the tongue of Pbarao continued, mmti nica, leu Jilgyptiaca, or Coptic, and every one to the gyptiac Cambyfis times, who JELgypto lefju- with gatà, devaftatà, làcertobitus, hiero- mantles of the eyes, and not even of the obelisks, with the fes of the kingdom and every tear of the hieroglyphic mo-y of the proflrats the religion of the Egyptians
who reigns conquered of the Egyptians, drove out the Luper of Verfarm Ititibus, he made all the power, li- bertate perampala to them, there still re- they would perish, hieromyths and priests instilled in the old religion give, give again This meadow, like a pole meC- after gathering a few wheat stalks, The Coptic gua was indeed men, that the commerce of the Greeks that is, in a great part corrupted, in place y of the Egyptians, whose lack of labor bant the name, from Greek so, however Egyptian Grammar
adapt ever Athanasius Kircher adapted, as indeed none of the declension of nouns, or ver- boron conjugation of verbs re- held; quemadinodùrn infra ex'm-SeSÌ. 11. stipulations his in Atlas polyglnjjo it will be clear CHAPTER
the Armenian language. Chapter In the same way from the Afa languages first: we took the beginning -lyglottias noftra: so here it is which languages were spoken in the East how are we? tametfi the whole, they use heaven from the Hebrew language: heretofore declared speech, and different characters let them bear
they use Armenka Georgiana Tartanca Turcica, because yet ha: a great progeny from the corruption of one with the other fertile: light, them in order we will describe Armenia: Armenia, the great Afa of the greater por- tejcrytio tjQ I was divided into Major Se Minor-em which: the first, then, the request of one kingdom Vcrfa- Rum was supported by the government, of course ta- men times by the King of Vcrfarum pta, Mabumetani, Se Turaci juris faóta It was; This happens to Afa smaller than they call Anatolia, the borders of Occa- fù, from the Ortus of Greater Armenia à Se- ptentrione Mecreliam, five Gcorgiam, L would drink, once Colchis; à Midie the other side; Major from Occafù the smaller one; from Ortu by the same; from Self north of the Sea of Cafaun, and the mountain He was plowing, which in Noah's Ark was abundant let's write it down carried both to the Persian Gulf terminated Armenia etymon fíium ob- held by Aram to his son Shem, his first pofTeffore, what would you say, Aramania; whatever others may say that the hiftoric tura, as well geographers from the etymology of this name of endless disputes between the faithful, whom support Today in the great Terfarum He appears to the king; the whole kingdom of Christ It is worshiped by the Patnar- ftian religion, by the Patriarch e" cham proper, which in NafcbeVan ur- be y at the roots of Mount Ararat, of others who, however many times, ecclesiastes: Romana? was united, yet to fchi- fma reverius him of right and discretion in ec- clefìa of the Armenians to be governed luit, quam Romana: ecclefia: catho- please: , orthodox: laws humble to judge faithfully with the satisfaction of the mind. Language they have speech and speech and character diverging from the Eastern countries. Although he did not pay a little attention to this once I spent, but not any jus vetigium in Hebra y Cbaldaìca, Sy- based on the river, I could find I confess that I used in his inliutions it will be clear to you. Language Georgiana typically use Georgia- Cultivators of the Christian law n, who Crelia or Iberia} than the Georgians
they call him Colcbid; and the region in three times the Euxine sea, he interjected himself with Cafaun óla, nor the mountains of the Caucafès jecSla Georgians some call it autumant fuifle a St. George, glorious Cbrifti martyr
more ape country rtolo; they have a language from Tartary Armenian composed, charactei- but the town was difficult from the Armenians bearing, of which in the second place in to you
Tartaric the dwarf occupies a great diverge from mere idiocy, for various reasons it pleases the kings of the neighbors to go into it ruzione, and the same ccia, which language was also primitive rie corrupted into divers languages, in It spread everywhere in India. Regcs for Indofan
fi ve Mogor, cxTartaria tranfmigrators femper it only ccu born Tower of Babel Lib. III.
but the Tartaric fum of the ipfìs Seti. II. theme, from the language: incompetence to penetrate it was not permitted;
this faeces, and become someone cha- Chapter tcnuere native; even though she wants to read the gem of Mahomet in that kingdom the miftura of the language introduced from Arabia do not indulge in a little corruption reasons the Latins fcribcret with each other Your ingenuity has turned away. The truth about that the Akerius idiom of an unknown language. In- Hayton hjfce confûle Hayton the Armenian in lu count at this point to attach the poffem to M. l'auius bro de region, Marami Tau- liane material relevance truths Vcnetus t yenetUìn noftram Chimm that quieadilucidiùsnoffecupit, flaming
in which I did a great deal about hitee mouse Today the Tartars still use ve- teri fuà lingua, (ed charaderes, quos they had once obtained from the Chaldeans j who is the first into Tartary the Magnanim To the great Cbam Emperor, faith They had introduced Chrillian, into this each day, as in China we taught noitra illuflrata, conspire EaiBum There is a huge table in the middle of the room, spine "transfmiffa to me from China, which King the late Emperor of the with the university co-Chinese
tharaHete {one kingdom of China in fifteen re- gna divifùm I was fubjecii Tet dominion and jurisdiction, the double language of tanks, Chinenfi, promulgation the law of Christ-Ianx; temples, etc. keys to be built in the Chriftian rite daily pt. noftram Illuftrata, a little before so contiuì at A coat of tongue, tametfi many va- and the confusions of the nations pta
all, however, from the Tartar language he found the origin. For certain ed.
and the history of all geographers back and forth teftimonies verified Turks, the first of all Tartars region, than Turastan from lepten trional plax region, to which mind to get the prophets, through the sea Hyrcanus
entering the gates of Caffia we know the regions of innumerable people breaking forth in multitudes, illudluife cifTe of law; and finally also impious Having embraced the law of Mohammedan fuilTe with rum, free to the whole empire, which to the great Christian Republic more than the world today! chin; à Regione Turchi- holds, the permiffion that the madmen ìftan, whence they broke out, impofît no allows And Tartary indeed j men on this and that day left table, not others, as the Chalda'ìcis See Leonclavius hyfee, JoVius, reasons
the other of the Chinese, at that end in! Augustine Cure Lambinum (crypt it was
as in both kingdoms j bris on the origin of the Turks. I will go on lin and Tartaric, and Sinicus, the mind of Im- Turkish guans, from Tartary understand the language of the operator ca, nor mixed Arabic, in really pollit Characières indeed ChaU oftending to his inftitutions I drove the Daikos to the end with no difficulty, fan mouse
Athanasius Kircher Section III. Of the original European languages, and their properties. CHAPTER T)e Greek language originally Self? will certainly lose the battle
on the subject of such a rampart, so famous, and what is new in the old piety, in which men of great genius already twice almost a thousand years, after being deceived it was, to bring me polle izregQowss-ipcòs I will perform for you. Completion of three meet the most trustworthy; first Is it a language? (Jrce origin, ancient you; to be licked the excellence of this language slowness dignity, the third is propa- win, worship, and jamming win nai nova by gifted men fa&a
in- ftauration Language In the first place, no one naexpr! - it must be without this being one of the first big the native tongues, the filial Hebrew pole his half
that his, to lick the chin between fake nine The tongue may give place; verify for it is a thousand, polì: language division rum, to the sons of Japbetb, who destroyed the Tower prefects were present in the division of course, with this language, of course, with a divine nod happy to meet her in the first place even, where? desire Greece was a day I was tranflated, which indeed fucceflu time has made so much progress, whom iàtis not to be surprised at this day we want And indeed the first of this language? the propagator was Ivan, whom they call him lonen, the son of Japbetb, from
right by the name of Ionia pofteà Grecia, Ionia common Arab, Hebrews, Cbal- dczorumopxo Icriptorum di- age was; to whom he fubfcribit 'Bibliander in li- bro to the properties of languages; hundred He lives in the ancient land of Geneva and milks his children Japbetb, Magog, Madai, JaVan, Mofocb, Tbyras; but your grandchildren were from Gomer, Afcene, ipbat Tbogorma; from Java but 'Elipha, Tbarfis, Cetbim Doda- no; ab hilce divifaefùnt infùlse gen- each one of them in the countries involved I would like to speak my language and my family in his nations. From John therefore lio Japbetb Greek origin tinuiffe, Hecateus at Strabo a he learned, confirms this Vlutarcbus in fee therefore no one doubts about this. Se- Ivan was cute for a long time I will give the name Telajgus
who is busy Peloponnesus he called mine Velafgia. Who really? here Pelagius has been
So I say this one You were from the house of Heber, who while happy ces in occupying kingdoms JaVan's bed, and a great-grandson would listen, iple heroi'co fpiritu agi- a status, named Phaleg the sons of Heber, to whom the name of the division of languages then he was j infignitus, five brother leg, five nephews fuerit, likewise ed, in Leaving Peloponnesus, to a place named Pe- he called the lagiali
that is what Phaleg; where? heart desires was broken, the net was eaten, and the people of Te- lafgrt, that is, the people of Phaleg, Pau- you're crazy, uh Of Arcadius this is not ob- Icurè hints: where he says, come into 6ìum, whom the son of Goricus desired Will, and Niobd, where? the same next to the acquisition call Xenopbonus light, and Noah, married re (RJjea prognatumj an excellent man theme Tower of Babel Li b. III
Gtp. I. cem noble form of pra? dics, genius and with his strength, whom Arcades ex of splendid body, of mental talent push into a leader and a king son affumplérinc, who and them, cumrudio things come, neither ingenuity, nor industriousness, conveniently transferred to human life they would rule, to a more polite man? he translated the cult; where do you remember of evildoers in his name widely distributed in Greece web the inhabitants They would name Pelajgos. And- that these were the first, who colonized the Italians, where the Aborigines Stccans they were born, they were born. Where? everything in Latto noftro of the Latin field of antiquity but how wide iTime we project, to which we repent. CHAPTER II. Thee language of Greece with dignity excellence Chapter II. Ed already about the origin of the language? Great without further ado, let us proceed to le- since the point of the tongue? green that eli: his language? dignity, ex- importance
where? the young branches into the canca celticism, and the amplitude from I tend to go anywhere in the world language? they will live forever
five ele- glove, five saying fplendorera, fi- and, finally, of words and names abundance he took the palm Although first? VI Gran I am already corrupt to others they have used barbarian languages idiomatically, variety of ramen, genius devised songs
under various names into one coagmencats pangebanc, with which mo- the things of men are wonderful bank; cujulmodi ed lequens: OtygVOL VCL tiO'&oF) pMy XCl8siLTm%Q' ljcLX. xvfyeiQl gytyoi "tenetedL$ncu- mhautt MettKVè TTjOI Kct&yflctj Which some modern people are ashamed of, jfed wrong
Siloni Capefones, Vibri(fa afper-amente Mantico barbicoU from a drill plate flampedutique lucernttui juffaremaniteli ISloFllatentiVori, nociidolojiudii Tullipremopagi futclo capttotrica (]umieraucupid. e, nugicanoicrcpi. Hofce fecuus Anìhphanes from Comcedia Latin (Plautius, thank you for your poems in feruic ièquency: TSLttgipolyloquides, extenebronides of silver Techmloquidesynummorumexpalponides Where you see even one name from the three for them to compose; where Nugipolyloquides people talk a lot about toys
silver from ashes, fraud talking to each other, and the coins from the wonderful castle croquences Breast size heat smptorts rie in the beginning, I dare not say, when you 'fxX'
fcriptoribus ancebellum Trojanumc2LiurnTro' let's face it: although several let down Linn, Orphea Mufeum poft Mofem,
Orpheus mulcoance excidmm cempore exi- Mufaeu? . ftences, hymns were sung about the Gods, language Thank you elegantly Icripfifle whom I read with wonder we go; whom I took with a long rope Vemodocus, Vhtemus, Eptmentdes Cretanfis, Arifteus Pròcana son, Asbolus, Centaurus, Iphatis, Drimon, Orus Samienfis, Vrotenidas Athens
Pbilammon, Tbamire, A? npbion, Onbaiu ttus Tbrecanienfisy Syagrius Dares Tbryx all of whom Greeks lances Homer's floraiflè, Solinus, Tariamo ScSuim Athanasius Kircher Lap.
homer Hefiodus SS Europe give Herod you I give to Gracci Flowers
And they are woven with silk; even the poetry of Homer I will tick liti hiftoria from a certain Eueclo and Corninus, of whom this heroic poet dtfcipulus Palamedes, while still "Trojan's confidence, his history con- it is written, as much as Homer pro- He blushed, Poi! hofceitaque Homer stole, nearly a hundred years after having captured Ilium, divine ingenuity for he lifted up the poet's lane so high surprising, how much higher the branches lit inter viburna cypretus, about which plu- ra vide tranfoota in noftro Latto. following this Hefiodus, and others, who Graciam language geniuses works excellently they promoted He wants to eat these Rhodotus, the first parent of the Hiftorics, in which none of the other hiftorics the things and incompetencies of the Egyptians
Babylon nior, Medor 'Berfarum ancient' decripts the tates of the city, be true to him to be had it is done as in the Ennead of Mu- market Ionic phylum He left for hunger hiftoria; an example of which done Athens polypxdias Orcheftra in every skill Nere Coryphxi, Socrates, Tlatus, Arifiote les, univerfoe philofophie. heads in ma- theme worship, Euclid, Apollonius Vergeus; nxOj Hippocrates, Theophraptus, Galen; from jurisconsults, Lycurgus, Solon, that from the hiftoric Tbucydides, Vaufanias, Diodorus Siculus; from the rhetoricians, Demo- Philbenes, Iphocrates, Lucian, Heliodorus, and others, such as from the poets, many of whom I am afraid that the number of fub falls; who mnes ftylo Greek elegantiftìmo, the feats just mentioned, of the spinal cord to promote The Fathers of the Fathers, JuHini, Atbanafii, Cyril, 'Bafilii, Cbrifoftom, of Piphanius, and of Gregory dis phthylo grecofone pereleganti Chri-St7. III. Ftians the fairness of the dogmas of faith; in interpreting lacras letters I will cut the threads; in hxrefifs extir- spreading zeal, and scorn; where- rum, indeed, by hearths and labors It is active throughout Europe Grocce's tongue; use in all He thus aroused an ardent affection far away and widely diffused innumerable he soon found the worshipers of this liugux. For when that of the Turks Mabumedano-
by the wild rumor which Cracia. of churches and temples, and gymnasiums, libraries and having taken off their clothes, they entered, that rum will weaken the mood; not de- there were, however, excellent men who I am driven by the good of the literary blica, that in Italy first, then to the Euro-
tranfplantàrin pe parts three others were principal (Bejjarion Card. Emanuel Chryfoloras, zantine (Georgius Trapezuntius, annes Argyropylus, Cbalcondylas, who be- I do not make princes, the most powerful of the leaders of Hetruria, (of whose ge- look at the poor Hetruria lawyers I was assisted by great expenses, not write There they helped Italy: lèd ex, Grades with handwritten books mere aiportatis, the minds of literati violent unfaithfulness them into Latin to translate the language, they lit
of whom indeed the confusion occurred, so that con- at a federated rate throughout the Euro- pam in all papfim Icholi language Graca ftudium publicà prelezione, in- numbers on this day the tongue of Graca burns, and propagates tores, so that the number of donors
Let not the rum be kindled today, who (jracam He did not know the language. But this about Gracia language originally lùficiant. ca- Chapter IL Tower of BabelLib III. CHAPTER
I sat down. The origin, antiquity, and corruption of the Latin language reslauration ancient this language: Latin: .L Atiia lingua à Latto fic dida, in- home? but the Latins, five Aborigines nes, of whose firn, and inhabitant bus with Tomo intact y that LA- TIUM, five of the antiquities of the Latin field we inscribed, already when amplifies adum fìt, you are a fupervacaneum effe ratas film, to repeat them at this point. Why ad language? origin antiquity to be described, as if argue propitiate to us, ca- Let's turn the page. And the first one then to letters, and charades that regards Pliny did not lack them not with teflis, that Nicostrata, five the mother of Euander, charaderes the Latin language from Arcadia into liam at first tranituliffe, putàrint Others from the region of the Balifci by Hercules in They think that it was brought to Latus. Dionysius Halicamajjaus, Euander says from Arca- I would dare the refugees of this benefit fuiffe Italy Others tell the story differently. Whatever happens, we will want others opinions, what appears to us, and how do these beliefs con- wear to be agreed fìt, little fufìùs we will explain Cadmus Cadmus, Vbcenicem ortu nixGrs- ptios I'm sorry
Hieronymus woven: through the ages, said Jofùe, Cadmus together with I was a brother Phcenic Thebes of the Egyptians
Syria profctlos ejje, in the time of Otho nothing the fudici of the Ifraelites è Phcenicia in Greece Come
and there in memory r'iam Thebes and Thebes of Egypt Bceotias condidijfe, the remains of his brother Phoe Syria, which then from his name Phenicia? name got it. Egypt therefore the letters, which in Egypt from the youth he had learned safely, he shared with Gratis; for as in the language? Coptic Onomaft we taught, it was the genius of the Egyptians from nature to all things to be overshadowed by my fignifications inclined, how from that the mythical alphabet is clear; whence true like eli: Mifraim was the first son of Cbus King of Egypt or his Trifmegift flower garden
tongue charaderes? Hebrew into others more ipfìs transform your thoughts, as in Oedipus we poured out the fuze, these lusted after Cadmus as if to pretend something, in Gra- already brought to strike at the common law
for they are most? and letter? Come on Gra- your relatives, as you will be welcomed by the smell to be added to the proper times, exadà friendship in all j Gra- you let them correct True to this to demonstrate
that We have previously shown trust And this is the difference in the alphabet torum of the Copts, five of the Egyptians, from by which it appears, from Egypt, or through Cadmus or even through I was, who is called Pboroneus
or Cres from the kingdom of Crete, of which he was the first king He was, both of Egypt, to the Gracchus charaderes tranflates fuiffe; lived au tem Inacbus poft flood in the year Cadmus indeed pofl: the flood of anno. The truth about hifee in the previous earlier Since then the letters of thanks from J&gy- ptiis have received, Latini à Gratis, at least the Latin letters have their origin How clearly it will appear in my place. ca- hair
ATHANASIUS Klrcheri CHAPTER III. T)e varied in quality
vivacity English? SeSlMl. Various breath Yes. - varia- ih Un. Where is La- tin Certumeft, the Latin language from not at first soon after to be killed seek perfection
wherefore in this place the triple tongue let us trust the fear: priest, Rome a mixture of ours and appetites. I will drink What language do we call? at the time of Ve- Lajgorum, Euandri, Turni, Aborigines in Latium; the Omani language camus
where? little Poles: confined Romans beginning and ending even of the Roman Empire
each move narcissism from the West to the East transference, and to Gotbor the wind lasted; I would like to, which one? at the bar bars corrupted into various dials, talisman
What is the Latin language? son, went to Lati- among the learned you both to these times so- that I will break we would trust
she used at the time of Velafgore Euandri, Tur- neither FaunicpLQ from Rome many languages you got rich
the subject of which they are verses and songs of priests jump rum of the gods; for these are the things of God nyfio Halicarnassus, scarcely, and not scarcely who at the same time were they conducted, as to what? with Graca 8c Aboriginal mixed Latin, legenti- bus inextricable difficulty to was carrying; the same about the words of the gods and with the laws of the kingdom of Numa Pompilius you eat, and promulgate, where? hardly at all were understood by the later Omanis, and Ta- bula {ojlrata, at the time of Confulmus in the Roman Capitol fat registration ROASTED BOARD The registration of the priest the Latin language peraUa. SEd liane noftram interpretation What are the two big things? of confederation antiquities what men luculentiflìmè demon frant: the first of which it is Table A fragment of a column, in Ca- pitolio in this and every day fuperftes, from which the truth of these numbers ra- that is to be sought, than to the greater of truth atteftation put here I married a dame, whose failure Tetrus Ci- acconius it filled up in the proper context right column? published interpretation li- war Giù- Captain W. Tower of Babel Lib. III. Column Tarata Infcriptkx
C. Bilios M. F. aduorsom. Cartacinians. en. The Sicilian thing. Cerens it is years cognatos People Romans, artisumad obfèdeone D. exemet. LE- The Zionists Cartacinians. to all the greatest magistrates Lucaeus bouebous. I believe nine. camp Excavate MA- Cellar the wall vrbem pVCNANDOD He took THEN. EO- DEM. MACstratod. very close We will ship. HUSBAND CONSOL FIRST. It will cease. resmecosque cLASESQVE NAVAL FIRST. decorate And it will stop. days cVMQVE. EIS ship BOWS You will be defeated. POENICIANS Everyone. had prepared sVMAS copy AS. Carthage. Presented mostly dictated RED. Odor IN. HIGH MARID. PVCnando will win. Naueis onion CVM SOCIETIES. SEVEN things and mom you do not things in Moscow TRIRESMOSQVE. ships XX. let down gold CAPTOM. NVMEI
arcenTOM. CAPTOM. PREADA. NVMEI cccboD. from the leg CAPTOM.
cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd cccIddd pounds triompOQVE NAVALED. PREY THE PEOPLE Roman he will donate captives to the Carthaginians. incendiary He will lead. before, who and the first with There of Sicily class C A R Tacinienfeom. will triumph ear re- Rome erco to him this column. p. In this ancient Latin language ries along with the exotic counting mo- therefore it is clearly seen, while expedi- tion C. Confùlis against tbannenfes it matters Sicily
prey also brought back from the conquered cities as indeed, and also as to the ships, and as to money, gold, silver then, xnea
where between others figures millennials these things note occurs three times, together with which numbered But the origin of this well-known a thread: then He repeats the vigilance this note cccIddd; quoniamil- number was crushed, here li du&us gives the number air? copper, weight It happened but these vi&oria Duillie con- through Cartbaginenfes in the year the city was founded ta The first, then, who to the language of for they girded themselves with faith to be cultivated, runt Tlautus, Accius Cacuius, Ennius, the old Poets; which they have done Orators, Cato Sifennas, Quadrigarius, Antius Varrò Quintilian, Julius Ce- Far, Cicero; Hiftorici, after Lùium, Plu nium, flowers, solinus, innumerable here already known, whose love, care la-
bore A T H A N A His hair, covered with a boar, cultivated the Latin language ad reached the peak of perfection. Veruna as the duration of the season is uncertain, orrupm unaffordable, so also Narchi from Consiantine to the East antiurti tranflatse huge change then from the inundation of the barbarians, Go-
the Tibors, the Heruli, the Vandals, the Huns of us, of the Lombards as a whole Europe difmla, while Gaul, Hifpa- they rush forth violently from their tongues barbarians with Latin, which principally pera place in Italy, France, and Spain Klrcheri before he held, by mixture, à fu a pri- SetiMI. ma puntate defleótens, Italian, cam, gave birth to Hifpanica, Latina lin- gua follumodò among learned men remaining But how is this language? between lèdifTerant bit Indeed, with a multitude of teachers, who fcribbled about the Latin language, barely the fub number falls, to them a leotor we let go; He was a stranger, an orphan its propagation and corruption for this us propofit argument to demonstrate in a few CHAPTER IV. On the origin, propagation, and corruption of the Germanic language. No doubt indeed it must, Germany from Afcan son of Japbetb, who in the division of nations had recovered the northern parts, de- named the fuiffe, and with one accord the Hebrews is supported by the opinion that those who enter this office ma. Afce-genas otjdcn Afcbenajm
they call Ge" is used as a plural in fua Thifbe Elias, where he calls Ashkenai, that eli, or- you German since indeed Tuifcon Noah's great-grandson together with Afkene, divide to the rights of the owners of this land first portion of rum they lived, hence from his name Ger- mania, Tuifconia, Leu Tbeutonia, the Teutons, on this day they were driven away; true strength Mar- That is the spirit in which they lived earmon. Garmanni, how could you say all the men, or Allentami, that is, all men, is an etymon the font of the voice, of which see andrum, Tritbemium, AVentmum, Ger- the hands of the recorders Imperial German language. sprout I {today to such perfection Im- nica:
go to she was exasperated by the worship of the priests, that she might live your
abundance and abundance of elegance, in expressing things genuinely I would not give up the language of the Ipects to any other can be seen, and that innumerable authors
Theologians, Historians, Physiologists, Chemists, Doctors, Mathematicians, Poets? , Orators who have every kind of skill and knowledge, guà Germanic culture of public light they gave, they are very well woven. to dial his ethos, as regards illse in German nia adeò different lunt
and all in- they come from as many different provinces and kingdoms are found in it, which lia, Gaul, and Hifpanice he came from somewhere. And the son whom she bore was the font (Bel- English, Scottish, (Belgian Dutch shares with the nearest Colonies} ScWeftpbals. AnS Glica traces its origin to the Saxons the bus that drove out the valleys they breed, Saxonia into old Wallachia jubilation: whence into this ÒìzmAnglo. They are called Saxons: see Bedam on the hilce. Finally, the entire North of the German language maniche receives any one, who nevertheless [etc. in the course of time he has so turned away, that he hardly ta- men, nifi frequented everywhere lest they should understand each other. But about the hill in this place Language Dutch daughter until today it was extended, so that even in the mis Tower of Babel Lib. III.
Cap. V. rais you bounded the earth, and in the middle bus diverfilima utimr. That in order to explain Indwum) 'New Batavia, which Geo- i speak hungarian ius Efle Getica, leu Scythica, that Mattbias seems to hint at Michou in the courts The graphs call Java, don't listen to the snow speaking the Germanic language Satanic
which: without a doubt barbarians of this kind mixed guis, new femper new It will give birth to impurity. nica so many and so many monophyllas, so no Northern regions com- of men: Juhres, leu of Jubri, of Jubra the land of North Scythian ta and cold ciale fîta, joomilliar. of the Germans no whole periods move the snow a Mofcua MofcoVia metropolis dillìtà
to pronounce words composed of non-hylabic words I failed, and they found the land plain to the south in the region of Go- tein beit fyab: daughters. It is conflated
polysyllabic words and a little, as elegantly con- tissues, where? indeed, no one has a diet: lin- gua: open to experts. The truth about elements tis, articles of names, pronoun which was no longer in place. Ca: terùm cantera: language? from Germany nica
so much greater corruption won: they were, how much more to Septen- the English and Scots accept the trio ca, as 'Belgica from neighboring Gaul, pluri- but the French words were inserted into the torch
from the French and German com- gate: to the seer of the radical Germa- Nico Lemper retained. Danish, NorthVe-, they turned away from the Swedish to use the third character, so as to be scarcely understood I was in place will be found Eft Se- the only language in the world cant
with words, and dear different of which as well in fact to you The Bohemian language in the heart Germania ulupatam, S'ch'ironica language: Effe daughter, use Polish, MofcóVu I will tell you, there is nothing that I remember, as it were introduced by him from Dalmatia: when Many regions of this kind are known: and their language, instilled, manners They will be explained by the Geographers; together lane confidence worthy met Hangaria, which: tametfi between the middle ages almost a place
fit- that he obtains, yet the tongue from all tborum in Scythia, where just Tartars They live in Zavalenfcs, who desire while At tila of the Huns, and of Varnion tes army for the intended campaign he would force him, and he would move they fled to the bank of the Danube; with the whole Pannonian slaves jury ctioni fubefifet, Juhri poft with war motion Attila took all the slaves away they fell, and the earth into this and that they ate the day, to the rest of the slaves in the fi- to them the regions of Tannonia resident bus And so Jubri in the region of Scythia fic said, from which they came forth, named born flint whom I longed to know the Hugros, and the neighboring nations called the Hungarians; whence the prophet's language diverged: Hun- Garica is more clear than Hugri Cytba (with, like a vernacular and mixed with no other from Tartary into Hungary tranftulére
into this during each day. If someone really me- oftende the origin of the Hungarians rit, we will not with difficulty write to him. But the borders of Hungary guarum diverfìtas à George Vernerò lib. of Aauis minerals Hungary do it they will be written Pannonia is not an appellation only her including the Danube the bank, with which she
which: it is a diet Fertile Pannonia, from the Arabon river? who is Ptolemy "Marabo, now common. " aba, to SaVum runs fèd whatever prxtQYezHungari on the other bank of the Danube they hold, which indeed is very clear. For he holds tot&mjaygnm Metanafla-
rum ATHANAS Cip. lW rum region, which Ptolemaus river nib on the Danube, the Tiber, and the Sar mountains it ends with Mayicis. And there are the mountains of Sar- matics and those who use Hungarians, Volo- in this MoraVis, Silcjiis, and on that other side, which one is across the Danube, they divide. Ad to which the Carpathian belongs, so that already vul- ready to appeal, every Thracian the Carpathian mountains are called though for me Ptolemy's record gazing at them, the same Carpathians with whom Dacia's borders seem terminal. I will go on there is now also a nation of Jaygum in three Hungarians, whom he they call the fa fa, and retain the same etianv should I take the language of my ancestors, and parti- cular, the most difficult Hungarian, at- that you believe them, which Plinius records they once held, of course pos, flat, the Dacians, as he says the same, pul- I Klrcheri fis to the river Tatiffus, quemegode-SVc? .IIL traótà prima lyllabà Tiffiim, or, as now commonly called, but Tibicus is Vtolemaus, ris Dacia
whose cultivated part it is Tranjfyfoania, a province inhabited by many frequenting the streets For her Germa- those whom they call the Saxons and the Huns ri, 8c Hwigarorutn anticpùfàrrìi dióti Si- the asses, who speak the language of Zekheli imitation of this to whom do you want the Ceculi are sung, inhabit to omit ancient remnants of the cbos, who frequent the villages there, and the peasants are nabbing: nevertheless they are in possession of things the Hungarians, and close to them
and thus it is done, that the Tranfylvani also Hwi in the name of children they are censured The truth on the elements of this language in Volume II Atlantis (polyglot. C A U T T)e intimates of the northern regions languages that's it. The northern part of the world, as
Geographers Scandiam, live Scandiam They call the sites ha--naVia, in various regions now gt' as are Finlandia, Succia, Lap- pious Scricfinnia, Finmarcbia, "Norway, Finland Gotbia Finlandia is known from the East Schricfin- e MofcóVia; from the West of Sweden; from In the north, Scricjinnia, and Lappi; from the south of Livonia, her is distinguished Bay of Bodnik; à Fin- country, whose metropolis is Viburg, and on the eastern side he has a magazine MofcoVitica juridildiótionis Michael arc- said to the angel last: it is said that it is a beautiful region; and this region a language from Swedish Mocovitic com- He holds a poem. Scricfinnia between Lappi it is the middle of Finland; Resident: Write they are called firms, from wooden shoes, cha- lybeata lamina liifTultis, which quickly with a rapid movement through the glaciers, and covered with snow meadows, rivers, and lakes promote jelly from one place to another come, and among the BataVos, pa firn are called- language GwHrtwcdjCorruptiffima, however, Fimnar In the east it reflects Lappiia; from the West the Northern Ocean, whose me- it is a Northcap town
and it will be the last the boundary of the northern habitat; Tbegia is reflected from the south; à Septen- trione Feigahetum, NoVam blame Norway? what would you say, JÌOtt- Norway- North, Denmark Re- gis jurisdiction
and me the village of Nidrofia, commonly known as Trunden, the bishops of the entire North was the domicile Cix is still there I'm sorry quickness They offer a wide range: today Bergen of the whole Se- in Norway is a famous city; reflects from the north of Finmarcbia; from Ori- being Sweden; from the Qcalu Ocean; from meridian TOWER Chapter At noon, the sea flows into Denmark, Se Go suck tbiam Sweden, the noblest kingdom, and the most famous glory of things to the north of Lapland; from Ortu Sinum 'Bodnicus'; from Meridie Mare 'Baltbtcum; exOccafa Gotbtam And all these vaftiflìma? regions use idioms from Vanico, Swedish, English adeò corru- please, so that they were hardly understood by the Germans. The rest from some of the regions to condemn most of them forever neither corn nor fruit run, and do not open to feeding cattle, fb- lo water? drink, they live except those parts in which from elsewhere bread, wine, beer, and car- they are driven to smoke. Money they do not have
lèd fola exchange furs, hides, and furs they practice kang'fi' They have certain deer in Labbia rules
form the fun of horses, horses, and oxen WARS B. III.
lenient, so also do you draw longiflì- my journeys in the shortest time they are In some places also not the great ones perished, white hair foreclosed
also foxes and lynxes; can domesticated animals because cold atrocity, ibid not fìibfìftere pop; Read about them Itineraries of the defendants; The Great Wave, in many ta- men fuffpecre of faith He writes about hife, while I write this, the book of Septen- the nature and proper- tate, Franafeus Nerius Italian} Raven- nose, priest by religion and zeal rum confpicus, a friend among the few fingularis, who Sweden, Denmark, Nor- Vegia, Lappia, Finmarcbia, and each ad the last inhabited northern terminus whether, said Nordcap, ipfèmet quam He fought curiously, and where? offer vit, state? He gave it to the light. The truth about hife fufìùs in fertile CHAPTER Illyrian, Dalmatian language y Slavonica, ejufqae daughters I anciently Tbrada, a nephew of Tbyras Etymology Thrace. The diet of Japheth, who was the first of this re- He was the pofTerTor of sion; although some Eliphan the first of this re-
a colonist of Gion, from neighboring Greece hither motion fuiffe exiftiment. We from Rab- the twining of the two, Tbracia, à Tbyras, how would you say Tbyracia, the etymon of fius fìimpfìffe, we believe in truth. Qua- lisnam that language à Tbyras in Tbraaam It is difficult to guess whether it was translated. This is the time of your desire. bus poit Chriftum ex Grxco, Latino-Ita- in the German idiom, tan- then into the proper, natural line guam, different from everyone else tell him However, it has several dia- beds
peculiar to different nations; and although today, what was once Tbracia, or ZerVia was called, in innumerable re- The nations become divided, yet united by this language they all use it the regions of Tbracia five Illyria comprehenfà? of each kind Myric are ZerYi, Dalmatian, Bofni, Croatian, fcij VaUaYiy Walacbi, fodoli, Daci, co- Lonia? Bohemia, Moravia, rum, MofcoYitarum; of which (Bibl under See how much of the hifie there is. treating me, Gefner, Sigifmund ab Herberflein Mattbiam Micbou Polo- num, Boémufcriptore Sigifmuru while Gelenium It is clear from hife, the language Illyricum fìve SdaVonicam, (Boèmicam ì (Polish, Litbvanic, MofcoYitic, and where? in hall Conflantinopolitana especially in it is one and the same language Athanasius Cap. Vl. you diverge in such a way, by condition different regions
dialed heart broken, as it were for all others languages in common force of corruption tem, when it was done in time. But after leaving Hifce, to explain the letters and characters let us move forward. The double Illyricians have the alphabet li- those of their own, those in the books his they use confcribing. First, except alicpiibiisfiracur alphabetoka rimi- read, however frt letter, as if not Graxum what is he doing, and this is said in the Epistle to Cyril Klrcheri fcopo Vdegradenfi compofitum; high-Se&III attributed to the divine Hieronymus; of where 'Btbliander: see the truth about this in the frequent book, de principally the Illyrian language, and alphabetic the various which the Dalmatians use Nothing he retorts further, so as to learn better ris intruclion, we attach the chro- nology of the pole years: the flood? as at which time each of those mentioned here that the Hebrew authors, (Jracis, Latin if he has lived, he will not notice. CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE then it is explained. In the year of the world
The flood The division of languages. Abraham Cres, King of Crete The burning of Sodom when The Kingdom of Sicyon in Grada. The Kingdom of the Argives Kingdom of the Afyri. The kingdom of Egypt. Trifmegiius Noah dies according to which the world was inhabited, cities were founded. Inacbus, Tboroneus ArgiVorum Reo-es. The salad is dying. The tribe of Ifrael dominates, the mythical kingdom of the gods there Mofes is born. Amenopbis King of Egypt. Cecrops King of Atbenienfis. The beginning of the Graca language. Mofes dies. Jofue and Judges. Cadmus, Phoenix, Orpbeus. Deborah the prophetess of Judah. Saturni faMus. It is founded. Sicani, Latti, Aborigines. Gideon and the other judges. Faunus King A tire is prepared. Velafgorum the expedition into Italy, and the language (Jraca mixed Latin. Sicani, Aborigines are driven from Italy. judges Jephthah, the daughter of Heli is born. The fire of the Trojans. Aeneas. turn Lucumones in Hetruria. Samphon among Pbiliftae. Hebrew Kegs. Saul, David, and Esther. Samuel Homer find tur, in the year of the world and not longe polì: Hefiodus. Temple of washed away Cult of Graca lingule. Kings fuda Acbab. The end of the kingdom of the AJJyrians was under Sardanapalus. Joias He preached The White Kings Elias Helicopters Carthage was founded. The Vhamic language flourishes in Africa. Kings of Judah Ifrael give to the Kings The kings of Judah and Israel, the captivity of the Hebrews in Babylon. Olympiads beginning in the year the whole is made Rome was founded in Tower of Babel Lib. III.
Baby Ionic Transmigration Kabucbodonofor. Daniel. White horse Seti. IH Tibales Milefius. Stefichorus G track language: the study is promoted. Salami Zerubbabel. The end of Babylonian fervour, years,
Darius Cyrus. Tarquinius Proud. Confìiles Romani cydes' Pjtbagora pi'xccptov. Poet: old woman. jfàfckyhs. Vindarus you are tired Language: English proficiency.
Xerxes Furius Camillus The trust of the young. oma taken from the French dotai nafeitur Tbucydides. Socrates is angry On the floor Uffus. Simonides Etnpcdocles. Diogenes Cynic Ariftoteles was born
Alexander the Great is found in Various. Vemofthenes pivs. Demetrius Valercus Alexander the Great dies The Ptolemaic Kingdom of Egypt. Scipio Africanus Culture begins with the language: Latin: . Ennius the poet is born Eerentius Arcbimedcs. Hannibal in this battle Machabi for by faith slaughtered Judas The wars of Macbabus wears empty Vms. Vlotius Gallus was the first to read Rhetoric in the Latin language. Acius the poet. Lucrius Marius Sylla Civil wars Cicero fPompeyus Jofephj foacbim, Anna, blessed daughter of Deipara. JESUS Cbriftus fi- the law of God in the year The War of the Triumvirs M. Tullius Cicero Ju- lius Cafar, and the Monarchy of the Roman Cafars. OYidius yours Virgil flourished. Cult Latin: language: pro- paid S. S. Fathers Eufebius Cxfarienfis, tbanafius
Gregory of Nazianzus In the year of Christ From the first year onwards Tibullus and Catullus flourished at
Propertius Vionyfius Halicamaggios. Vibilus, Orojius, Lucanus, Cornelius citusj Valerio FiaccoJuvenalis, tialis, Pliny, Tedianus, poet: , fub Aufulus goes to Trajanus. From the year Christ to ib Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus, and they flourished towards SeVerus, ebusj Paufanias, Faorinus
Vtole- maus, Galen, Juftinus Martyr, rbianus, Max. Tyrius, Luciano, tbenaus, Apukjus, a Gaul. From the year to Caracolla and Diocletian Is it a flower? !PbiloFtratus, Appianus, Cafiiodorus, Plotinus, Cenforinus, Tor- pbyrius Lampridim, Tertullian. From the year Christ to ftantinus Magnus, Chriftiana: re- propagator of the ligion
Epibanius and Ambrofius, Cbrifojìomus, Mieroyiy mo, Augustinus. From the year to empire Roman from the West to the East the barbarians invaded ilo; and hither and thither the Latin language pure in Italy, fèd by Gotbis, wool, Vandals, Humus, corrupted into various Italian idioms, Gallicans, Hispanics, and other de- generava, Latin language fblummo- therefore he remains among the literate. But hife fàt in general indeed expo- you are already at book, pra: ci- tire of this work argument let's move forward, in which languages Diomata early those things put it back in order it is prophesied twice. GOD O. M. Spirit fans Trcuf&ÓTX degree it comes to our ears. True Athanasius Kircher we will examine the function; then no- Seci. llL the intention of the university language in the curiofi leótor we add grace. Cap. Yl. True, before the work of Atlantis lygloffi arduous order, in this place ce- What language did I learn from the university? CHAPTER VII. XJtrum rtidices lìngmrum I reported to the universal quan- I will give the language to be supported. C. VII various perfùa- fione flooded first? varunr lin- the roots of the guar known poffe, from which the universal line gua finci poffitjetiamnumcredire When, therefore, he consulted many people about the matter I was, I was able (Tìmum h. Ferdinando III. Im- the most munificent executor of Mecoenate, who was my client in others so so judgment was not to be tried in the usual manner despised: (for what about this proposal what is the universal language? by argument tire
praiseworthy Ca? faris curiosity to anyone I would just be satisfied, from the first principles pious prophesied to me a doubt, imagine with great diligence and diligence, eno- to be given to the hundred But hardly as long as branch, when behold, to admit the truth, it seems to me accidental that ty- could
compofìtione peraóla, I am already typing He has a fortune at his disposal. True in the nave with which I cafu with loose ties of the type of Iparfim leave the light of the truth how many, nor to the priestly form prototypes that have already been lost can be brought back. It happens in the same way in the infinite she is close to languages and idioms What multitude and variety? from the origin so far as the world has not been able to old age, because of so many empires changes, so many different peoples market mixing, among so many denials that the vicissitudes of human affairs
corruptclas exofita? they were
hence it is impossible to do or foundation to all languages common poffe? I believe. Quot for in the Chaldean, Syriac, ca J&tlnopka words meet, where? no references to the primary language how we determined the Hebrew mouse
(except those who? runtj obtain a lowliness? all They are quiet and quickly difTerunt? who ro- go or the only word in the language broea ca? terifque will find? that to lin- guam Greek, let me not say Latin elsewhere what affinity does he have? be true not no? voices meet, which? tame in regard to a kind of lowliness of rope promise, she? however, with a figment let them show the opposite. this with such diligence, and combi- swimmers? art applied to the mold, I tell you merarium, not to say their flowery the test, which in this business so hard and with human strength riori something fé pra? ftare pofTe pra? fum- they believe more Let them therefore define of course ignorant of things researchers Where are the frogs in the air? wing tip re Sifyphi turn the bundle, at- that they turn around with useless labor, every- that human in the present exploring a vain and void faith they will certainly pervade the perverts. Ho- All those who are willing to be joined by number the Germanic language, or even though a from Hebrews with words and speech to demonstrate the confidence of faith they are afraid Among those I deserved first Gorop'nvs 'Becanus occupies the place
who 'The first book in the Belgian language? that true line of the Hebrews guam TOWER VII. a guam or falcm derived from it mediately Woe to you! trying to demonftrarc; surprised I am indeed a man cacteroquin eru- ditiflimurn, in a matter of play, so many bo- we confùmpfirTe day and hour. Who for it is nepheid, in almost all languages some words of JrLebr#is as to ions relatives to be found for the representation is said to express barely to be able to: , how violently how co- so that as to the Hebrew refpon let him try to twist it. And certainly I give my husband a lot of judgment tem problems are not possible I did not foresee it. Therefore, do not with some prejudice to his ETFimation let it be seen, he is not so true life, that fènfiffe, how the genius lu- snatched away with a swearing breath often the futility of the character give fìmiliaeffutiiffe arbitrarily. He retorts that he is already exhausted by his fate as in this way another universal language I was describing the manner in which Caefaris ftulation was newly discovered
it is called universal-, which quif- that tametfi is not a native language BEL L B. III.
intru&us, with all the popu-iV#. III# lis nationsj by letter reciprocity trade, let me make up my mind to open it is demonstrated that while not at the bidding of many only a few copies im- public preference We have done the right thing. It really is the universal method by which one can al- no matter what the intention language share pofTit; I admit that I am tired of it from all before dawn it seems incredible and what a cwoov habit of a thousand But the published work although many have reduced it to practice you from the great ones, then indeed that I will not say qlwu fèd or most they found a hearth. What with the first ones? Ferdinand III. Cablar Archduke Leopoldus Guilielmus they became angry; to use on the front of PolygrapbU, from the letter to the reader the truth of the matter is demonstrated. Why Alexander VII.
glory me smoke The Pontiff discovered the truth so much ipfi he takes the technique; as the inventor of the year penfion mineral do not align becomes despised I concluded Horrible at last the waves of the cataclyfm eluded the lifeless and stupendous the catastrophe of the world, because of the multitude of the sons of men, the avenger of God we have closed the broad one with a tremor, which ended from Mount Ararat in the foothills we plains, by a direct route, we landed at last in the land of Sennaar. tower, and in both cases I used a portentous device of dimension in the intercurrent confusion of tongues We have left it imperfect and incomplete; so also from the confufò of the fermons trade, exorcises the argument of the new then; To do this, he surprised my mind. True with that It would seem to exceed the limits of this first volume at length, works? cost me I was afraid of rum I became an auxiliary supporter, I would add Atlas, as he Geocofmo univerfi the world of the world tongues confpicuo humeri fuppopofit vi- He would have fubled the infirmity of my affairs, that by which he might become unmarried. That at last the grace of the divine God happened, in the same way that the reader in fe- would you like at the same time, in two volumes in languages, according to in three volumes He will see the most diverse generations of Noah's sons completed. Goodbye reader there in he met with something worthy of admiration, that only D. O. M. who He makes the tongues of the fools effet dilertas, I would like to add them. Praise be to God And the virgin mother. IN- TABLE OF CONTENTS contained in this work
in which The number indicated the page, from the previous column, b later. Bimelech tfr at the time of Abraham i.
they are expelled from Italy ibid. rfgwi Nini. io4-b. I was the year of my father's life. óo. ioj-. a. ir a. from who wanted pro- they will be
Abubacer of wrong opinion, which Za-juit of the brothers Abydenus dslapfu Tower. iio. b. An Abyssinian language.
Achad Hieronymus EdefTa.
five pri- He gave names to living creatures.
i6f. a. perfect of all pure men we are ttijfimus, &fcientiffimus a. let me pour and he had a concretized feitnty. ibid. he had a tongue that poured out into his hair. ibid. his theology. ibid. phylogata a. its inflrutlpr An- frost the tradition of the bays.
Adonis see Ofiris. Adris arabicè grace Hermes Trifmegi- the flood dteitur iEgyptiorum Thoyrh. 2. b. The Egyptian language. See Coptic. His first the old man
The beginning of the kingdom of Egypt. .iThe first device of Egyptian letters
tnftitutio iEgyptian Simia of the Babylonians in the obelisks crtdebant the first men born in Egypt. f. b. ?x qua caujà ibid. the monks flourished hieroglyphs cam doctor of old of the Egyptians.
Egypt was not inhabited before the vision the union of languages.
b. Of the first the fertile Egyptians, the breeder of men.
Islamic language. See Perfica. Aemilius Scaurus built a theater $6ocolumniscon- Jpicum
Aeolian dialect language?
As many camels have been laden with the air of Colofii Sol.
The kind air that rests the region ms.
iEthiopians as the first people in iEthiopia in the midst of the earth they brought forth their children which caufà
iEthiopia, the birthplace of the first humans when the Ethiopians ibid. his desperation. a. antiquity. 'ibià. b. the first colonists for
ibid. The Ethiopic alphabet diversifies from Hebrew ibid. An African language.
Agareni See Ifmael. Agriculture
Alexander the Great was enraged. dies. ibid. Exposition of the Egyptian allegories. feq. The Ethiopic alphabet different from Hebrew b. Common Coptic myflicum dalmatians things
lllyric double; the other Cyril, the other Jerome. 2itf. a, b. Not the Samaritans e(l same as Phce- nicium i8y. b. The height of the moon from the earth. b. triple: major in
apogao, minor in perineum, middle in quadra tura a. Let the tower be as large as it should be and the moon in every heaven.
Bitter wj. Amafis Rex JEgypù avexittemplum mono- the bed
Amraphel King of Sennaar a. Rabbi's He was praised by Nembrod. ibid. it was Ninyx, the deputy of the King of the Aphyrians, five gu- or the land of Sennaar.
The analogies of the world's greatest gè- Jla- INDEX THINGS Jtarum, the geflis of Ophirides, Iphides, Typhon, parallel to the hour.
What language and chatter did the angel write in? on the wall of Balthafar as well.
Appianus is pure. ibid. Apuleius will die. ibid. Aquila eur in Hebrew dieat Nefra.
The Arabs thought Arabia happy at first human genetics. snatch a very famous thing. a. their relationship about the pyramids of Egypt.
I was carried away. ibid. by Peter you ibid. Happy first human gene three Jccundum Arabs
its Amalecitica and Ifmaèlitica ditta ibid. Arabic language, in AndaluziaawwixjtaLa- Are you Arabic? voices, in Melitenfi injulacommixtavocabulis Iralic Arabi cify ob. Hebrew. a.
throughout the whole East the West diff Pure rule over Egypt.
Arach Hieronymus Niphibis.
hx. 2iX. 2X not efìunusmonparticularis, fed in a nation of chained mountains.
Arcadia, the generative of the first men, while Theodoret from the ancient relation rum Archimedes
Architecture of the Tower of Nembrod.
Arcus Soìiman Pac. Arifìides Athenienfe folus the first land He brings a crowd of people.
Ariftoteles was born. many of Chal- He received the Daic monuments. Armenia is twofold: minor and major. Minor jet Vi-. i. b. Registration. a. etymon from Aram son of Shem. ibid. armed the only language
Arphaxad the third son of Semi, r a. born two years after the flood, ibid. to which pro- di er un Chaldean Sufis.
I received letters from the Jews and the Egyptians. JudsisPhcenices, àPhcenicibusGrse- cos.
Artemifta Queen Caria; Maufolo to her husband He reigned from the grave, from which all Re- and the monuments of the emperors were destroyed They are called Maufolea.
The skills that Noah taught you. a. for them payment ibid. b. Why is Chamor called in Hebrew?
Aflur was the fruitful son of Sem, to which Aflyrii. a. different from Aflur egre [fo de Baby- Ionia, who founded "Niniycn.
Ailiria from the land of Sennaar. iS. b. which now corruptè fitus
Aftyriacus charatler See the character. Affar, the king of the Aflyrians.
cata- logus à Nino ujque to the last Sardana- stick fo. their rule lasted Jub Kings year ibid.
Athenxus Jloret. ibid. Athenians brought forth the first men Ariftidem. I3fb. Attic dialectal language. Grix
An attributive name.
The labyrinthine halls are terrifying. Augustinus on the number of languages. ìyy. d, . fio- ret.
Abundance of gold in the first grains.
Aphonius will be pure.
his examination of size works. a, b. the rubbish or the fuferfin today.
Babylon is the land of Shinar.
Babylonian language. See Chaldea. His character See Characler. In the Baby Ionic kingdom there was no necanticius or ma ii2. b. Staff of Tautìcus of St. Anthony.
Baghdad was built out of good bricks and the ancients of old Babylonia, tkc.
Becanus (Goropius) tries the Bel- I am the first of all.
Belgium is the language of everyone's first child Go- of the Becan river. a. Julia Germa nica?
his burial b. the temple
See Ofiris. Ben Sa. la. xnas about the pyramids of Egypt. b. Benjamin of Tudelf's offering of the city Tower of Babel
Bibliothecafacra of Ifmendii.
nor Polonus she is tall it will tell 130. I). daughter Scla- guilty
Bofaicz is a language from Ilyric.
We are called Buffaticus.
Bulgari is a language from Illyricum.
Briax Maufoleum Artemifix Queen of Caria he warmed from the north.
Admus letters first to the Greeks ah V-'iEgyptiis, ipfe iEgyptius iijtens, attu-
Cadmaa l'itera at that time handed over to the Greeks.
dill also of Phcenicia, also of Pe- lafgia a. were different from Sama- of Rita
the language of Cafrarienfìs.
Caì'nsn's generation Jecundum not at all computanda. iof. a gave birth to Saìe
Cairo was endowed with incredible greatness.
I was the art of making kicks taught Noah.
Calculation of the propagation of the human race ad. Tm- loom
Cambyfes regniJEgyptiommeverfor. 20 3. b. j Chinese language Battle of Cannes
Captivity of the Hebrews in Babylon.
Csres architeclus Colofli Rhodii feu Solis.
C3rthaginenfes Phcenic colony. i87. b. Carthage's incredible size pre- dtta f. a. it is founded
Catalog of the Kings of the Aflyrians from Nino and elsewhere yo.
Caufauniverfales five corruptions of the language rum: of different nations and peoples a mixture monarchies that change. by public calamity kingdoms the different kingdoms co- I will introduce the lonians.
which in certain nations is confounded.
I was thrown from the height.
He expanded the story.
Chaldai'ca language from Hebrxà, and each dial- closing a. the first of some languages delivered incorrectly. fertile the primacy of languages takes place iyi Why is the Chamaea family such a great monument? He may have left, but not the family of Semi, fe'Japheth. Chamus, the son of Noah, was called Zoroaster.
his descendants were responsible for the ìdololatria. See Ssmaritana- Characler Samaritan language? , whether really AfTyrius or Hebrxus, becomes i. Afiyriacae feu Hebra'ics.
Ephdrus He was employed in Jcribendis; but in the profane Samaritan Aflyriacus He- true bra I will be, in which the table of the law was recorded they were. ibid. Samaritan in Sicily bras Chemmis Diodorus
but he said to Herodotus Cheos Oclavus King of Egypt he built the largest triumpyramid, killed the clearest work counted.
title of the Cross, brought back through the of the language, peoples into unity, on Pen- tecofies miffo Spirit fanelo fuper Apofto- loss
The progeny of Chufi, and whether he was of true color imbued with black, welfaltem, or all, who if blacks are born, if they come out, etc. natural black un- the other side genealo- gia Cicero
What a state it was, than to do text Nembrod extruxiffe really carries.
The goodness of the climate rested upon the goodness of the region you
Colony of the sons of Shem, Elam Aflur, etc. Colotfi INDEX THINGS Co loffi iEstyptiaci all others with the help of miracles the size of the rum was a. head Solis, dedicated to Apollo. b. his altnu, and the water diverges from it (Pliny's meaning
Volaterrani ibid. Tarentine
Column rojt ratte registration.
Column in the temple of Diana Ephefia-t%. a. Maufolei Artemifia Carice Queen? . ibid. Calculated the symmetry of the whole monolith temple.
i3i. b. Reconciliation of the two opinions about primacy of languages fo. a.
I prepared the three requifits for some kind of the right of the region
Confucius of languages.
it happened a. pò fi di- Luvius, iof. b. iotf. how it was done i07-b. caufa
a self-righteous God, not a man nes. b. the cacodamons could not ibid. the root curse of Noah i Canaan yf- Cham. a. gravisfedjufta ma- xime pana a. restless God's greatest mercy.
piety, power, goodness, justice.
Four confectionaries were taken out of possiblity A tower to be erected on each side of the moon.
Roman marriages ibid. Coptic is one of the original languages, and each mystical letter
origin i74. b how corrupt b. i7J. a, b. common alphabet medical. and feq. He has a certain affinity with others. a, b char atere s from the Hebrews they bear b. duration ibid. The corruption of the five tongues.
ijr. a. Cres RexCtztx
We are called Crocodilopolitanus.
The tombs of crocodiles in the midst of the earthen labyrinth of fire. o b.
Ctefias Cnidius refers to the Pyramid of Nini the bulk of the height was nineteen hundred miles.
Ctedphon, the architect of the temple of Diana; Ephesus ft.
A cubit is one of three cubits. We are Cynopolitanus. Cyrus
nxi II5. a. Dxdalus marveled at the Egyptian labyrinth captured, ar- of the labyrinth of Crete. Dalmatia or Slavonia. oltmTlvtacia. ditta z a. Dalmatian language ibid. his alphabet. See the Alphabet. Danish language, Teutonic;
Darius ibid. Deborah the prophetess of Judah.
The fatus of the Dedanae. iióa, b. A wall built of a single stone. 2. a, b. his menfura
Demonstration of the Tower to Lunaz cosium from ai- by pressing (reliability.
Registration porch and porch the Egyptians a. honors of Semiramis. a
labyrinth the Egyptians. Lake Mceridis.
of the Babylonian bridge from Semiramis I dug up the river Euphrates. ff, f6. earth Sennaar i7. &feq. GOD all men recognized him.
There were various dialects in the original language the first fire go a. The difference between exterior and interior dimensions nis temple monolith.
Diodorus Siculus will bring the resgefts to Ninus. a, b. when he said to him fubegiffe JE- Egypt, and the neighboring regions, as long as it is not full, or to tell him I did not eat them for long. a, b. said the towers in minibus fuìffe
which not all minibus infertasfuifje supposed efl. a. It has nothing to do with the Tower of Nini and Semiram otìozonià
from the city of Semiramis. a. people rejected him busy fuifje in the building of the city of Semira mida f a, b. f. b. He also called him the walls of the Babylonian city, continuous only j-o towers f'4. b. from the bridge over the Euphrates with the two royal palaces opposite twice INDEX Semiramis was twice extricated,
is rejected ehm said Hortumpenfilem not from Semira fear, fear a certain King Syvopojìmodus in favor of his fae. ibid. erm is rejected He said that the stone was used to block the chariots of Semiramas the tide, and thence the ship impofl- then he was taken to Babylon.
repelled fcribing from the exceflu Semi- branches a. Memphite depyramide the greatest of all. S6. a, b. of the labyrinth Egyptian a. from Hecata 7J. a, b of the miracles of the Theban city.
Dionysius Halicarnassus flourishes. ibid. The first division of the nations took place A. M.
f. a, b fertile A. M.
when he took no The division of languages nonfemperfuiffe often it is See Confucianism. Dogmatapbilofophores. See Opinions. Dophithei fetatores. ijxs. a. TJ Cbatenae is now the dittai of Taurus, of the kingdom of Me-
Edom See Efau. Here was the first son of Shem
Elamitarumyfrw, who they are called the Elymaeans, from whom they came Perfectly. ibid. Elias id. Elymaeus See the Elamites. Empedocles
Ennius the Poet is inspired. ibid. Epilogifmus Genealogy, from which you will strike gene- the accounts of the sons of Noah were gathered together. b. go a. Epiphanius on the number of languages. a, b. deTxani's dejection. no. b blooms He is called a horse of course. iS5. a, b. Ifaac, as I
Ephdraus charatler See Chara&er. Ephdras did not invert a new character to le- a gem to be borne; fed the old something degenerate into a more beautiful form life iJT-a. Effeni
The etymology of the Samaritan letters.
in a. Eupolemus was written by Mofe, the inventor of letters. let the Jews and the Egyptians receive the letters, from Judseis Phcenices. from the Phcenic Greeks cos.
Euphebius on the number of languages. a. flower ret.
R E R U M I Examination of the three miracles of manufacture push
Nini's army against Zoroaster foot, horsemen, a little smaller ioóqo carts of scythes.
Exposition of the Allegories of Egypt.
feq. Expofltiofingular parts of gardens penfl- lyum
The prophet Ezekiel's grave.
A fable about irrational animals, which they once spoke with a common voice among themselves about things you were, as Jolent men, agereconjuevijfe, the origin was exTmùprodiit
The story of the giants flying over the mountains imposing, that they might bring war upon the gods, fed thrown down by lightning, originating from Tuuipro- he said.
ibid. origin The carpenter's craft Faunus King Favorinus flower t. Ferrarla of the art of killing. The art of pottery handed down by Noah. Of the three sons of Noah in three dijìributto, d. a.
Finnish language from Swedish tical composition ibid. Fi n march? A flame of fire upon each of the Kings of Egypt graves Irrigation of the rivers and streams requiflta ad the goodness of the country.
The shape of the tower of Nembrod is round, fertile other squares.
Genealogies, and grandson Noah.
io4. &feq. Georgizdefrictio. 204. -b. etymon ibid. George INDEX Georgian language. a
composed from Tartarica Armonica- ibid. its character they cried out from the Armenians. ibid. she Are the Chriftians thundering in the beginning? Mecvelìx feu Ibe- Úx, other Georgia, formerly Colchis. German language. See Teutonic. German denomination from Japheth
Greek language, corrupt in some Cala- on the outskirts of the town o. b. gave birth to Attic dialects cam, Ionic, Iolic, Phrygian, .a. an al'iEgyptiiis proceeded, right side aniquity. tnigeniis. roi. 2L. his dignity and excellence infìauratores- b. The Greeks received literature from the Phoenicians.
fcriptoresanteexcidiumTTo)anum. 207. b. I want to get rid of the Trojans
Was the Gracchus fuerba? fabricaz and monuments for imitation iEgyptiorunv destroyed
gave birth to Phaleg. from him defcenduniWebx. xi. 20h. Whether and how the Hebrew language confu A group of languages
in the house of Heber manferit- x2z. xyo. z. a.
from Heber to Abraham it was paid b. first turned into dial- all the Chaldeans, fecundb into Arabic the fire of Midianite, the third in the Samaritan for
a. in Thare's house she was gathered- b. she was the first of all of languages a. fo. b.
protoplajlis to God injufa yo. b- a. I am propagandizing them ibid. character
See characì: er. His wondrous power in matters Jì- gnijfcations glowing, how infufam Adam had triplex-
We are called Lleliopolitanus.
Heliopolis is huge? vaftitatis civitas inJE gypt
tis shores uffa.
R E R U M Enoch the aftrologist.
We are called Heracleopolitanus.
Hermes Trifmegiflus hebrakè dicìturHe- noch, ejt Adris Arabum. iEgyptiorum hieroglyphic author rum. ibid. ìliùaimiconfliarius
For Herodotus, it was the height of the tower from the tower birds. ipfe in- through the temple of Helierettamottozonia. fi. b. of the Memphite pyramid of all ma. a. of the monolith temple. God the Egyptian labyrinth. 74-a, b. b.
a. the slave of Mcerides. about miracles Ibid. is acquired
Heshiaeus of Sennaax in Babylonia.
Hefiodus is born.
Hevilà, the fertile son of Chufi, from whom WesiXxi. iif. b.
ibid. Hieroglyphicavariainftatuisl{metìdii. Hieronymus says, to whom it should be said, height nem'luxxisfuijfe pajfuum. ret
Hieronymus mathematics of acres Cope- he will write to be contained.
The Spanish language from Latin gave birth to many ma s dialects
Hiftoria about a woman, which? from the leaves of the imagination gave birth to the most precious child.
Horti penfiles à Semiramis in Babylonico the field was dug up, and among many miracles liciaz, and the tree brought down in the uppermost do- mouse under the roof
Hungarian language ejl Geliva feu Scythica.
Janus and Saturnus are the same for them No it is understood, fin aquivocè, dtverjj b. Japanese language.
Ichnography of the labyrinth of Egypt. ldololatriaz origo f introduced into the world.
the authors of Chami nies I went there. See Efau.
Fire of the Chaldeans. See Uxxus. It is founded.
The Illyrian language produced ramosfuos i#Polo- Lithuania riam; from this further Turkish, Bulga- ria, Bofnica, Tartarica- a. ' his dialects y. b. the alphabet See al- stout
of Illyria See Tliracia. bottom" INDEX The idols of all the gods of Egypt.
Inachus, King of the Argives.
Sodomitic arson. Trojans. ibid. The unity of human things.
The tools of human life have already been prepared before the transfer.
The invention of the diameter of the terrestrial globe, unàcumeir- ass, fuperficie cubo-
Job was born in Arabia.
Jonah preached to the Ninevites.
Ionic diabetes in the Greek language.
Jofephus G. Orionides fables about Janus the first Italy? god
Ifis and Ophir were the first deities of the Egyptians.
Ifraelites? three did not change in Egypt, no threats, vejìimenta, language. ifi. b. their warriors, besides the little ones, mu- ivy and hay, with Mofe their leader, ex iEgypto egre([a funt. y. b. of all (ffSa- married men before the first temple He was a charatler for a long time, who is now called Sa- spouses
Ivan the first propagator of the language Jews Faith in Israel. Judas Machabarus fought wars.
Acres what Jit in by taking care of the gardens pencil tfo. a. Julius Cefar
Jupiter a to some heir born A. M.
Juftinus Mnnyt Jloret.
ibid. Juvencus prefbyter flourished. ibid. LAbiumquìdnotet- i. b. Labyrinths in Egypt is a prodigious structure. inexplicable magnificence issue a. fitus- b. the door is empty feuichnography of the lower device Zi. a. material o. b. to build end
Labyrinths in Crete, Lemnos, and other Gre- R E R U M cise places to (the baseness of the Egyptians con- (Irutli.
The are relatives of the Jews.
Laxus the lions of Daniel 9. b. i. a. Lake Mcerides.
from Italy; English Sardis came forth with the squires (Sicula. i b. its origin, antiquity, corruption (rejtau- system cumcharatleribus tfNiccftrata five Carmenta mother of Euandri from Arca- dia first travjlata a. fe- and others from Hercules of the Phalicians region, ib. its various qualities, vicissitudes, increase. o. threefold breath: early, Romanorum potterus mixed- 2io. a. the first corruption
Let not l'itera arise from the Graces. f. b. .a. Latini primifcriptores: Poèta y Oratores, Hi- flowers 2ii. b. You read perforated fuifje Rabbis through give ijtf-b. Leocur in Hebrew is called Arieh. idf. b. iód. b- Leocares Maufoleum Artemide Carie Re- gina ab occafucalat.
Abyffina language, iEgyptian, JElamite, Ethiopian, English, Angolan, Ara- Bica, Armenian, Babylonian Dutch, Belgium, Bohemia, Bofnica, Bra eh mani-, Bulgarian, Brafilic, Cafrarienfis, Chaldaic, Chananea, Chilenfis, Chi- nica, Comorina, Congana, Coptic, Cuamenfìs, Danish, French, Georgia na, German, Greek, Hebrew. See Abyffina, JEgyptiaca, The first language a. yo. b. his the first reason, ibid. ftcutida. iy. a. tapeworm
used double from the beginning. Ori- ginalisfeu dotlrinalis, and he drew the Hebrews. Another idiomatic hve ufual, he went there Chalda'ica or Aflyriaca, the Hebrews conquered no The primordial language of the ancient Greeks was different he had dhletlos
The language they used immediately after the flood it was an ancient language. i. a, b feq. Univerfaln unpojfible language.
Idiomatic language all from the original feu do- ttrinali some defendentes, she also They are more important. fo. b. original Europe and their properties Se- of the northern regions.
The utility of language and idioms.
The number of languages io8. b. a. I did not know such men are alienated from one another. go the profit of the estate. i2 8. b. corruption nis caufa five o. a, b a. universe Jalium TABLE OF CONTENTS fivefold genus of phallus: Hebr2ea, ca, Latin, Teutonic, Illyrian.
In the womb: he went to Egypt by way of Cadmus to Gixco cut
at any time. L'itera: The mythology of the Copts. L'iterations Jregistration origi-
The Lithuanian language from Illyricum.
L'itera Latina? from the origin of Graxis: they are
ibid. Lucretius ibid. Lucullus erected Coloitum in the capitol. a. Lucumones in Hetruria.
The height of the moon from the earth. b. minor inperigao, major in apogao, middle in qua- wire
Ly Phippus erected Coloflum at Taranto.
ibid. Machine: artificial in the labyrinth.
Macrobius He drew all the gods to the hearth to be reported
See Arabic. Makeda. See Nicolas. My language.
Maria Deipara was born.
Marius ibid. ibid. Maufolea the Kings of Egypt together with the thieves their stock were at the center of the maze thi.
Mausoleum Artemis Queen of Caria: .
its height, circumference, column. ibid The maufoleum of Simondispotenti'fimi of the King.
Noah taught the craftsmen mechanics.
Memphite pyramids in ancient Egypt the subject of your surprise, and as it were They were a wonder of the world.
We know Memphites.
The art of mining and casting metals Noah taught the Jews.
Miuaim was the first King of Egypt.
Moabfilius Lot, to whom the Moabite? .
Monks of Egypt See iEgypt Monarchy of the Roman Caepha.
The four kingdoms of Nabuchod indicated by noforis. a. first AfTyrio ni Mcdorum. r- the first of the Greeks, the fourth of the Romans. ibid. The language of Monomorapenfis. ! Mofcovitic language from Illyricum.
Mofes is born, dies.
Mofes Algyptius on the opinions of the Sabx. l Multiplication of the human race, from the flood to each other to the building of the Tower. and below What a multitude of men
The wall of the city Bzbylonìcxcontinelat i6? fta- Diodes
Myflerioja was placed on the wall of the city of Semiramis. with the fear of the unfaithful. f 3-b. f4. a, b. The mythical l'iter of the Copts
The mythical shape of the pyramids and obelisks.
Myfticusfenfus, quifub Mofa'ica Turris hiflo- will continue. Mythras. VideOkùs Myzerinus, King of Egypt, built the third pyramid raised
"Tabuchodonophorus flatus. " four months
I told the narcissists. a. palace b. Nahor Thara's father dies.
Nembrod Tower builder, except fz- menis little ones, èfua folùm progenie, in He led a camp of men armed rum b. ChuSt If. by which he was born at the time, and lived every year It reached the time of Abraham. a. He was born in Armenia from Chus, one of the trans- migrating to the land of Sennaar.
dote s natural. 28. a. attraction to Tur- rice jabrica b. The exhortation of the offspring the princes came to Rome and the city in- choandam. Si, b
spilled into the pot keeping clean a. divinity a. the first architect in the world a. Babel died, Arach, Achad, Calna. . a. fuccefiitei Ninus o4. b. a division the reign of the tongues y atinos. a. death
Why did he return to Babylon? . a. when he took his kingdom. in the same as Belus. a. 7. b. fe' why Bel said. musrcxprimufque tyrannical life pro- Jeflus niJ. b. the years of his reign were counted they owe from the building of Babylon. a.
behavior INDEX rnores. a. He was an idol, first and foremost He introduced idolatry into the world. ibid. push he used ro discrimination.
The rise of the Nile, and the rivers it produces.
to him Registration, registration, registration. f. feq. ma- together with all the cities as old as he was mad at us. f. a. of his vanity 'Various opinions. b. of his greatness The form of demonization b. great compared with the great Roman city with the breadth of Latius. b. the Euphrates was not founded, fed up Tigrim. 48. b- at which time, ibid. his ve- wounds b. genuine fat ibid. Ninus to the city of Nini- come to the camp He used work rum 8. b. a. King of the Aphyrians, what kind of fue of his affairs. etc. Affur calls fcripturaeum. a. c#r. 2o. a. He built Nineveh, I reigned over Baby Ion, and then He began to be called King of the Tyrians.
f; j I will address various Kings. i+2. b. Far- whether the King of the Media, as his wife And having seized the son, he nailed it to the cross. ibid. what regions did he subjugate for him? there: his army had foot, , the car mowed a little less
He betrayed Zoroastrians gem Baclrianorum-iW itquepoftcondi and Nineveh. ibid. with Semiramide he built a tower in the city of Babylon. y
Ninus minor TiNinyas Ninyas, who Zameis, Ninus minor, NinimajorisdcSemiramidis ter- Tius King Aflyriorumd4. b Nitoctis built a fruitful bridge Babylonian
The departure of Noah and his sons from the Ark. a, b. they did not soon descend upon the plains. ibid. Fed they bring in the mountains. ibid. a. eorun then with their wives occupy the mountains nes a, b. y. a, b Noah was a member of the race humane in all things necessary push a, b. of course he taught blacksmithing riam, carpentry, fishing agriculture.
defenfus in fubmontanam re- the plain of Giones, today I will call the Traitor. a. iWMediam (Baclriam. vel Armenia and Parthia.
journey into the land They received Sennaar. a. the people without continuing the journey from the East to the West a tooth, fed with a delay of many years of things conflicts in the intermediate places. a. Noah He taught them the political way of life.
mining and the art of pouring rum. a. whether Tunisadificationifrenfuerit. 2%. a. b. drinking wine intoxicated ejl. kneel down
said Jonitliun- ibid. it is brought to me by Joni is born ibid. The names of the twelve Egyptians. a. a, b. their family ibid. you are expraciipuis dedicated to the gods ibid. The first impofitition of names
is defended no a. The variety of deities t multitude from confusion born of tongues and gods of nations. feq. The numismats of the Hebrews teach the ancients the difference character Samaritans Affyriaci Belifci were erected in JEgypt.
The mythical figure of the Obelisks.
Obelisk raised in Babylon by Semiramis, of all who have ever been the first we are The Theban of all who the greatest rope found in Egypt.
Semiramaeus five Babylonians with Comparison of Lateranenfi. a. Semira how is Babylon bowed down and there by what devices he was erected. ibid.
The beginning of the Olympics.
Opinions about the eternity of the world, about worlds plurality, of the life and divinity of the you, demetemphychofi revolution of souls I set up i3f. a. caufa hujujmodifabu- of the narratives ibid. The origin of the kingdoms. ri a. stories
literal rum registration the Coptic language?
I pray that we may flourish.
Ophir and Ifis were the first deities of the Egyptians. a. a. the same Ophirides with Bacchus cho Dionysus does the same to Tibus.
to confound the same Mercury and other gods. b. the same as the Chaldean rum XJixusfive Fire, I will do my best thras. Babyloniarum Belus. Hebrews Thamuz, Phoenician Adonis.
We offer you our name.
Epitaph of Ofymandia Kegis.
P. Pacu INDEX pAcuvius
The two royal palaces were built by Semiramis in the opposite city of Babylonia. f6, f7 Pannonia fainting
n&i, tms Noah and the three sons of Shem, Cham, Ja- pheth, already established leaders of the people rum
The pedestrian flourishes. ibid. Peguana language
Pelaphgic letter Cadmara.
The Pelagian expedition into Italy.
Pelafgusoc-mtfHeber. Pererius raises doubts against the number lin- I'm sure Perifiylia [the upper labyrinth of Egypt a fugitive
Perfia unde dilla- a. I will be rejected by him. ibid. The Perfican tongue as it once was. a, b. right corruption
Phaleg was born when and in what year. i If. a. He gave birth to Rheu. he dies ibid. from whom Pelagia
Pharaoh King Egypt in the time of Abraham. the same as the director of affairs. Pharaonic language see Copts ca. Pherecydes
The language of the Philippines.
Philip of Holy Trinity of Babylon? antiquities b. of Babylon, Tur- The ruins of Babel.
ipfe refutes slander nicorum. if. b. the discovery of l'itera He- of Abraham gives
The origin of the absurd dogmas of Philojophorus.
The Phoenician language is one of the exemplars. feq. it grows in Africa Faith Sama Rita. . Destruction of the Phoenician region.
Phoroneus King of the Argives ibid. Phrygia was the fertile mother of the first men. while Pfammeticum
Phrygia, a dialect of the Greek language.
Picus son of Saturn.
Plato made great records of the Chaldeans. i9? .b. flourish
THINGS Pliny's depyramids of Egypt. a, b. of the Egyptian labyrinth a. to go around is given, whether the Sun is pleased to be God.
Plotinus ibid. Plotius Gallus, the first to read the Rbetorica in language ibid. ibid.
Polish language from Illyricum.
The Babylonian bridge over the Euphrates from I was surprised by the suddenness of the construction.
Preparation of things to be built of Neceffaria.
Primevafeu language. o. b.
I want to go into the ground Sennaar's occupations and studies. The first people born in fertile Ethiopia Erhiopes, fertile others in Arcadia, infoio Athenienfi, in Arabia happy, or
in Egypt. i3f. b. or in Phrygia. The first principle of things it was a bad thing.
More precisely jWé.
Proper Aquitanicus on the number of languages.
PfammetichuSift? xiEgypti from some ex- experiment concludes that the first men in Phry- gia natosfuiffe
The Memphitic pyramids3 the greatest of all written by Herodotus Diodorus. tfó. 3 e eretlion how much time has been infum- ptum. 6%. a. magnìtudo ferìpta à Bellonio.
The pyramids were erected in Egypt. fo- rum magnificence &fplendor a. Mern- phiticaj prie cater of admiration argue mind and like a miracle of the world run ibid. The pyramids are of great p ukhrum Nini b. is examined
A mythical figure of the pyramid.
The Quinean language.
Quintilian was feet tall and a half cubit in breadth will bear I give a. Abbini chatterNembwdumefieAm-
Raphael a. Jonah in the red sea they are actually vomiting. a. their fanning of the chat-attere Afìyriaco INDEX The fourth Samaritan: the first. i y $. a. fertile f 4-a. third and fourth
through dunt law table fuifjeperforatoi.
Radzivilius's depyramldbus iEgypti.
Rangiferl jumen'ta deer form In Lap- pious 2if. a, b
ibid. I covered the end of the Tyrians with Sardanapalus.
The kingdom of the Egyptians, of the Argives, AfTy- of the defendants, I will do it, Sicyon in Gras- cia
The tombs of the kings of Egypt in the middle of the feufubter frog labyrinth 8o. a, b.
Reinaud (Theophilus) ah minumTmn prafentes fuifje.
Religioprimevaper (lititjubunlus language do- I am afraid of every conflict.
Remains See Vegetia. Refponfio to oljeft. of the wicked
Rhodopes Jìatua, an oracle.
Rome founded. zi à Gallis. 217 city of incredible size wealthy f. a. his size compared to Nineveh.
The vanity of Roman manufacturers.
Romulus was born.
Rubbish See Velli already. The runic language of the Septentrlonalls.
Saba was the first son of Chus, from whom faith on the other Regmae Sabasi. iif. a, b The tribe of the Sabaeans. ibid. The ridiculous fabulous tradition of the Sabaeans, Ada- ttiumexLunàprodiifle. false dogmas the creator of this heaven Jspiritum fire animam: ftellas corpora ipfa DElfubftantià shaped: calum ftellas effe deos: mun- while eternal: Adam was born of mafcu- lo fé? women, believe the prophet, predicaffe gentlemen utfervirentLu- ns and compofulffe books on the worship of the earth: do; Bring a golden glow to the moon, which it grew with the branches faith" leaves, arlore la- lice the leaf of every green tree, by which they were not burned by fire: fub whose ar- boris umbra io bomlnum contained there: arborifque altltuàinem aquaffeftatu- ram hummarn: attuliffe also fecum two leaves, each of which contains two bomlnes he laughed: Sethu contraxiffe the opinion of pa- I was saddened by this infatuation.
jllus Chus, tf-poSabathaei. ny. b. R E R U M The faith of the Sabbatarians. ibid Sabathaca, the fifth son of Chus, to whom Saba- tyrannized no. b. We are called Salticus.
Sale begat Heber.
The Samaritan language fx Hebrew. T3i. a. his character See charafter- Same as He- bra Aflyria, in a different dialect bearing
The doctrines of the Samaritans.
Samaritans alpbabetum is not the same as that Phcenicium i8f common to all Judas before the first destruction of the temple.
Samaritan characler Aflyrius nondif- fertpecle from the Hebrew language. a. his no communion with Grasce ibid. confi ans letters
Samphon at the Philistines.
Samuel died. ibid. Sarai was born in Chaldasa.
Saturn T39. a. Faith? The door is the same as Fiper Noe understood them, as they say, they were different. i4o. b. A satyr of the Labyrinth of Crete.
The great size of the rocks.
Scaliger (Jofephus) is rebuked, saying alpba- let the Samaritans be the same as Phoz- nicium i8f. b &feqq. Scenography of borforumpenfilium.
Regmae. uy. a. ibid.
Schematics of the Sicles of every kind, which llm among the Hebrews were in ufu, together with Samaritan interpretation with which they were impressed you will find Faith? ntyfterilfiymbolorumfubiis re- with the exfoliation of the condltors. it Scipio Africanus
Scopas Maujoleum Artemis Regi of Caria he hid it from the rising.
Scots Teutonic language.
The salad is dying.
Semiramis conàidiffe Babylonemy give afjerere alt Auguftinus. a. when Nino built a tower in the clvltate Baby- Ionic, fi. In the weakness of fosminà major.
he founded an almost magnificent city unbelievably in Babylon. n-a. the bridge baby INDEX Babylonian river Euphrates two the royal palace in the opposite parts of the city. y j, yo
he built the gardens of ibid. au- He was the first to surrender the city of Ballria, and querent of the whole kingdom of the Baftrians, ibid. I was a man raised in Aftyria near Nineveh Nino, ejuJquepatn Nembrod, the pyramid, together with Baby Ione, who was the first the greatest of all who have ever sworn. i. b. 2. b. (jusg'ftj in war. b. breakfast
death is imminent. a. no less than Nino minor, propriofilio slaughtered, born two years ago, want than his intercourse he will wait
ibid. about the antiquities of Baby Lonia.
Sennaar land registry. a. step by step bus conditions rested ad- of any country.
It should be called Babel, ibid. different names threats ibid. fat ibid. dill first the land of Babel, Babylon, Babylon, then Chaldsea, finally Aftyria.
The language of the Stptentnonal regions from Denmark ca, Swedish, English and mixed, such as
they could scarcely be understood by the Germans. fit registration ibid. The Sibyl on the confusion of tongues, and the Tower detrullion Sicani expelled from Italy. ibid. In this way the Hebrews were speaking to the Samaritans Jìgnitì. i8. b. the quality of the old if9. a. double, make (and ecclesiastical vulgar. I5'9. b. Fucer is properly called Siclus Sanllu- bear ibid. vulgar five profane inpromi- He was deputed to be an owl. ibid. of silver value ibid. phymbolic figure. Sicula from Latin commiflione Faith? so- legal
A reminder of the maufoleum. Simonides
2iy. a. Slavonic language, ibid. ca, Poland, Mofcovitica.
Socrates is born.
The sun is the god of all idolaters. i40. b. a. give how much ejfe dtbuerit
The nearness of the Sun, and dry land you don't want to bring people back turally black.
Spartans See the Lacedaemonians. A geneatheological mirror.
Statues of Egyptian gods. i. b. laby rinthaa terremincutìentes
The greatness of the statues of Simendius.
Stzabo was buried in the tomb of Bel in Babylon. b. THINGS
his wonderful record of honors wire a. of the pyramids of Egypt.
miracles of Theban life Colofius the Theban. b. Seleucia Ctefiphonte.
The structure of the horticulture arches areas Jlupendj.
The Swedish language is the daughter of Teutonic.
Sueiman. See Scleucia. 'Superjlition on the offering day [abbat. a. j Sufan dilla à Sus equus
The province of Sufiana. ibid. Sufis from Arphaxad.
ibid. Parallel synonymy of gods and goddesses.
Syracuse is a city of incredible size. wealthy fa. The Syriac language came from the Hebrew, or the Luti language from the Greek mixed Hebrew a. it was not the first. Charallers differs from lin- Hebrew gua was the native of Jefu Crypt ibid.
of the enemy of the Copts live immediately ptiorum Chronological table of the flood Pora Abraham
Chronological table of the years of the flood.
Tarquinius the Proud ibid. Tartaric language orlllyric. t. b.
Tauris ohm Ecbatena dilla.
Temple of Diana Ephesus. a. its long tude, breadth, column. ibid. A monolith temple. See Delubrum. Solomon's temple washed away.
The time of transmigration from the east into the earth Sennaar from the pearl flood, to the year who is the origin of Phaleg. Memphiti- cx greatest e. with which the work was done marveling at the conjti of the Egyptians.
Tertullianus de e1iJ20neT. mns. 111. SL. flower ret.
The Teutonic language is the daughter of Belgium, Danish, Swedish, English, Scottish. 131. D. origin propagation, corruption I will be Imperial a. his worship ibid. my Jluria with others.
Tha- INDEX Thamuz. See Ophir. Theatrum Romanum iEmilius Scauri co- lumnis cpnpicuum
We are called Thebes.
The miracles of the Theban city.
Theodoret the relation of the ancient pri- brings the customer. r. Thoyth of the Egyptians, to the Arabs Adris GraecisHermesTrifmegiftuscrt#r. S2. b. Thracix etymon, which now Slavonia or Dal- it is called mata.
xGrca, Latin-Italian, German mixed. j. a. dialects ibid. Thucydides
Timotheus Maufoleum Artifice Cariac Queen from the south.
The first migration of the sons of Noah from the mountain He was plowing in the plains of the foothills of the region fields o. feq. The Babylonian Migration
The epilogue tropology of the labyrinth.
Tartary b. from Tartary, Bofhi- ca (f? mixed Arabic. ibid. turn
fe differ in height opinions feq. impiety they had licked the beef. a. how high The moon should have been in the sky. b. foliage a. form architecture he has carried out the one and the other drawing f. b. folum from the roof of the arch abandoned, the faith also divinely abandoned. job Tower in the Babylonian city by Nino Semi- branch for almost a hundred years fabricaforma, fi a. it is reported among the fet wonders of the world
Tower i Beli. f a. with its fumity various golden fuses (tattoos, ibid. b. THINGS Tufca is the most pure language in Italy. .a. A tire is prepared.
Valle (Petrus à) de Pyramidihus iEgypti. job. of the ruins or the remnants of Babylon. ff. of Suleiman the aforesaid Seleucia b. io2. b. of the grave of Ezekiel. i0 3. a, b. of the Chabor river.
Varro's registration was determined.
of their trust.
Vejligia Turris Nembrodaeas whether today; from. various in the manufacture of Semiramis They were made in the time of Strabo.
The vicissitudes and inconstancy of human things.
The life of primitive mortals in the foothills the Ararat region of mind has been completed for many years. , Ulyfipona a city of credible size wealthy
Every one of men or Hierufal, or Babylonian citizen Efl.
Ur city of Aphyria vefligia.
Ureus See Ophir. The importance of the language and idioms of communion.
Care for and love the wives of Noah and his children about wine, wool, chickens, chickens, eggs,
rum Xerxes Abacus See Saturday -'Zameis. See Ninjas. Zervia, formerly called Thrace. The scorching zone is not all black people everywhere produces ri3. b. Zoroaftres, King of the Bacìrians, grandfather of Nem- broth against the Ninus, the river Nembrod He led an army of men.
ejl the same as Cbzmofi- lio Noe- a. a. recommend his magic from Plato i9f Zerubbabel.
Mistakes so to be corrected. pAg. 8. b. lin8. poft expmdatif add punt: um for Major kg Minor P. ix. a.
i+. leg (tei{ui. ibid. Towers Stc. delete both to b fuifle. b. I. 16 leg. av%6t.
leg. Pj'3. a. al. antepen deleuJqueadbA+i. P. A. L. 9vcluti Scc. deltufque adì i4. oftendercnt. b. Delete in each direction
read increasing Pi amarg. leg. IPol
leg P. i7ia prohu- jus' peris law Oedipus the Egyptians
I. .leg. we b. I. 4. leg. autographs P. ipi. b. l. z Se qua Cquavc. a. in marg. read. Hebrew
read. so that FINISH
